ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Marcin Duszek, Krzysztof Kubov, Daniel Milewski and Waldemar Buda to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Daniel Milewski. I consider the minutes of the 76th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! On 21 January this year. Andrzej Liss, a solidarity activist and a Member of the Sejm IV and the fifth term of office, died. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. The formal proposal is made by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, Antoni Zambrowski, a democratic opposition activist, a multiple political prisoner, a man whose life has shown that he can be liberated from the conditions imposed by the environment in which someone was born. It was just an example of someone who turned to the right side and remained after it to the end. I ask you to honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Amen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u3	Thank you. The group of Members submitted a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 3170. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees submitted a report on the Senate draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of those land, print No 3167. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on Parliamentary draft laws on: amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions, amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland and amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions, print no 3171. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Posel Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats requested information from the government on the doubts surrounding the investigation into the murder of President Paweł Adamowicz and the functioning of the prison and justice system. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda for this information. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the items on the agenda: - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on subscription fees, print No 3123, - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the electoral code law, print No. 3163, - Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and certain other laws, prints No 3045 and 3150. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote on the proposal to keep them on the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on a proposal for subscription fees. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on subscription fees, print 3123, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. For - 222, against - 173, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We are voting on a draft for the electoral code. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Quiet, please. Who among you is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, print 3163, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. For - 224, against - 171, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the committee's report on the Council of Ministers Act. Who among you is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government bill amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and some other laws, prints No 3045 and 3150, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. For - 225, against - 171, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, opposition was raised to the proposal to supplement the agenda with a report by the committee on the draft law amending the electoral code law in the event of its delivery. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will vote on the proposal to complete the agenda for this item. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the electoral code will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. For - 225, against - 167, with a hold of 6. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the agenda items. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider information on Polish energy policy at this meeting, in particular the detention by the government of the development of RES in the context of electricity prices, which was requested by the Poselski Modern Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Formal conclusion before the announcements. The formal proposal is submitted by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a break, which I have put forward in writing. The issue is very serious because it concerns Parliament's work. I understand that this side of the Chamber, the Law and Justice, wants to put out parliamentarianism, but, Mr Marshal, in this House, in the House, the law is being violated, the law on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator is violated, the rules of procedure are being violated. Mr. Marshal! This is the proposal of 12 September 2018 to convene the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the proposal in accordance with Article. 152. I understand that he was very uncomfortable, because it was Patrick Jaki's election campaign in Warsaw, and the proposal concerned the situation in the Prison Service after the gruesome situation...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u5	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. The formal proposal should concern the current meeting of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u6	...after a double murder on leave. It was a time when some people couldn't handle these things because they were busy with other things... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...they dealt with things...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u7	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that this is not a formal proposal. Mr President, in such cases, please submit proposals and interventions to the Marshal of the Sejm. Also a group of Members or representatives of clubs. I cannot accept this formal proposal. [[Mr. Marshal, the committee hasn't been called in four months...]] [[But it's not the marshal's committee calling...]] I remind you that the formal proposals can only concern matters on the agenda and the proceedings. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u8	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u9	I'm sorry. Please, Members, do not disperse yet, because you will be needed here in the Chamber. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u10	...to entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour. 12, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 13, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - Extraordinary for the examination of draft electoral law laws - hour. 13.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 2.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 9:30 p.m., - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - half an hour after the second reading, ca. 22.45. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: construction of the S-12 expressway - after the vote is completed, approx. hour. 11.15, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Sports Infrastructure - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for the Assessment of the Social and Economic Situation in the Areas of the PGR - hour 14. On 2 February this year, on Saturday, the annual pilgrimage of parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland to Jasna Góra will be held. Departure from Warsaw will take place at 3 p.m. 6:30. Additional information on the pilgrimage and recordings - at Fr. Piotr Burgonski, pastor of parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u11	Thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws (print No 3170). After the draft resolution has been tabled by the Member, I will ask your Members to make any comments. Then we'll have to have a procedural vote. I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to provide the reasons for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I present a draft resolution on amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 3170. The draft resolution aims to extend the scope of the committee's activities to the possibility of considering the draft electoral code law from print no. 3163. The project mainly consists of extending the scope of the activities set up on 24 November 2017 by the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the applicants, please vote in favour of extending the scope of the activities of the committee mentioned by me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u13	Thank you, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. I propose that the Sejm proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We move on to second reading. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. In that case, we may proceed with the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in print 3170 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 390 Members voted. For - 233, against - 141, 16 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 20 hours 11 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft parenting provision law (Print No. 3157). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki to present the justification for the bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would like to invite Members not interested in this point to join the roundabouts. [[I'm interested.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft Parental Supplementary Witness Act, which I am pleased to present today to the High House, is an expression of the announcement made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in April Ub. on the creation of a system of benefits for mothers who gave birth and raised at least four children and did not earn a pension financed by the social security system. It is a project that solves a serious social problem, which is the existence of a significant, because of the number of women, mothers who have met the condition of birth and upbringing at least four children and do not have the right to a pension financed by the social security system of at least the lowest amount of pension. This is a highly unsatisfactory situation not to say scandalous. The proposed solution should be looked at from a systemic point of view, i.e. from the point of view of today's social security system, solutions which are pro-family in nature, which encourage the decision to enlarge the family. Such a system, which has been in force since 1 January 1999, is the obligation to finance contributions to pension and pension insurance for persons who benefit from parental leave from the State budget. In September 2013, the Law amending the Social Insurance Act, which extended the subject-matter of this right to finance pension benefits - from those taking parental leave, entered into force... In a similar situation, from 1 January 1999 there have been beneficiaries of maternity allowance. As I mentioned, since September 2013, this obligation to finance contributions from the state budget has been extended to other categories of people who, when they devote themselves to their child-rearing activities, are either resigning from their job or not taking it. Despite these solutions already in force in the social security system today, we have 85 thousand. mothers who have had at least four children and are deprived of the right to a pension of at least the lowest pension. According to our estimates, 85,000. It consists, first, of a group of people whose number is estimated at around 65 thousand who do not have the right to a pension at all, and, secondly, of a group whose number is estimated at around 21 000 who, although they have the right to a pension, but who are entitled to this benefit, are less than the lowest pension benefit. This benefit, which we are proposing in the parent supplemental provision bill discussed today, is to sort of eliminate, eliminate this flaw, this gap that exists today in the pension system. It is also worth taking a closer look at these two categories of people whom I have just mentioned, who will be entitled to parental supplementary benefits. If we are talking about this group of about 65 000 people who do not have the right to a pension, this group is largely composed of those covered by the old pension scheme, i.e. persons born before 1 January 1949. I draw attention to the fact that in the old pension system, in the so-called. a defined benefit scheme, a period of insurance, a premium and a non-contributory period of at least 20 years was a condition for the right to a pension. For this number, 65 thousand. it consists of persons who have not fulfilled this condition. Internship is for women of 20 years, for men of 25 years. These are persons who did not meet the condition of achieving the required period of insurance. When it comes to a group of people - it is a smaller group, i.e. About 21,000. persons - who are entitled to a pension, but less than the lowest pension, here it can be said that they are persons who are covered by the new pension scheme, i.e. were born after 31 December 1948, but also did not meet these internship requirements. I would point out that, in the new pension scheme, achieving a premium and non-contributory period is not a condition for the right to a pension. For the second group of persons, the benefit to be granted to them will be the difference between the amount of the lowest pension benefit - from 1 March 2019 it will be PLN 1100 - and the amount of pension and pension benefits collected by those persons. The draft parent benefit law sets out the conditions and modalities for granting this benefit to persons who have born and raised or raised at least four children, also lays down the criteria for granting the right to that benefit and the rules for paying and financing it. The purpose of the parental supplementary benefit will be to provide the means of living of the above mentioned. persons and the fight against the poverty of this group. The acquisition of the right to benefit will not be linked to the earlier payment of social security contributions in Poland. The parent supplement will be able to grant, at the request of the person concerned, either the President of the Social Insurance Institution or the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, by administrative decision, after examining whether the person concerned fulfils all the criteria laid down in the proposed regulation. A parent's supplementary benefit may be granted to a mother who has given birth and raised at least four children, and in the event of the death of the mother of the child, the abandonment of children by the mother, as well as in the event of a prolonged cessation of personal care for the child, including the father who raised at least four children. As regards the criteria for granting parental benefit, it will be essential to reach the age of 60 for mothers, 65 for fathers. It will also be a condition not to have the necessary means of subsistence. One of the conditions will be the possession of Polish citizenship or the right of permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland in the case of nationals of the Member States of the European Union, EFTA States - parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation, as well as being a foreigner legally residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The benefit will be granted to persons residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland and having, after the age of 16, a centre of personal or economic interest in the territory of our country for a period of at least 10 years. Where the person concerned is already receiving a benefit lower than the amount of the lowest pension, the parental benefit will supplement the benefit collected up to that amount. In the case of persons who are not entitled to any benefit, the amount of this benefit will correspond to the amount of the lowest pension. The bill will enter into force on 1 March 2019. Finally, I would like to draw attention to another aspect of the proposed regulation. Namely, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that if we look at the general pension system in Poland today, we will see that the characteristic of this system is its repartition, i.e. financing expenditure of the Social Insurance Fund in the case of persons who have already reached retirement age, from the current income of that fund derived from the contributions of persons to the so-called. working age, paid by persons in so-called. the working age. We are talking about funding or the intergenerational nature of the pension system. As far as the substance of the proposed regulation is concerned, it is intended to honor mothers who have born and raised or raised at least four children and have therefore resigned from employment or have not taken up employment. We can say that we are honoring the contribution of mothers who have contributed to increasing the number of generations of people who today, as part of this generation of children of post-production age, finance social security contributions. We can say that we are solving a problem that has not so far been solved within the framework of the general pension insurance system, but also within the framework of the farmers' social security system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u15	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anita Czerwińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft Parental Supplementary Service Act, print No 3157. The aim of the Act is to provide means of subsistence for those who have resigned or who have not taken it because of the raising of children in large families. The proposed regulations highlight the important social role of parents, mostly women, in raising children, for the development of the country. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the honoring of those who raised at least four children and, in connection with their long-term upbringing, did not earn a pension of at least the lowest benefit or receive a pension paid by the pension authority of less than the lowest pension. The proposed regulations are the result of appreciating parents' educational difficulties in families of many children and will allow them to provide certain measures once they have reached the right age. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Mr. Marshal! I would also like to say, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, that during the work of the committee we will have tabled an amendment that will concern the article. 2. This change will extend the subject group of persons entitled to parental supplementary benefit to those caring for children in the framework of family foster care. Of course, the definition of a child will be extended accordingly. In contrast, in the article. 4 There will be a change that is a consequence extending the circle of persons to take care of children within a foster family. These persons will be obliged to attach to the application the decision of the court to entrust the child's foster care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u17	Thank you very much. Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u18	High Izbo! The Minister was just talking about the fact that parenting supplemental services are a form of honoring moms, parents who raise at least four children in families of many children. Agreed, it's a form of honor, recognition of raising more children as work and appreciation for this work. According to the information provided in the explanatory memorandum of the law, mothers who had at least four children are 1 378 000 in Poland. I have over 60 years of age, which means they're entitled to a pension, it's 820,000. Women aged 60 and over who have not earned a pension and have not been entitled to a pension are 65 000. These moms, who have partially earned their pension, but do not legitimize themselves with an internship which entitles to the lowest pension, is nearly 21,000. The benefit we are talking about is about 86,000. women with a small piece, mostly women. And what are we going to do with this crowd of over 700,000? I have, women who, despite birth, four children took a job and worked double? [[Well, they do.]] Yeah, they have the lowest pension. This is one of the Members of Parliament's benches. That's what the PiS is asking me. They do. And the same retirement will be given to moms who only cared about children. We're in the position that it's not socially fair. We must honor work at home, consider raising four children and more to be really hard work, but we must also honor those who have taken up a job and have earned a pension. [[Applause]] So we propose that we also receive parental supplemental benefits, but at 30%. We will not say then: Mom, who has worked hard for your 20 years, raising four and more children, you have earned the lowest pension and you are equal to the mom who raised children and also worked hard, but has not taken up a job, we will say: we promote labour market activity. And this is one range of comments that we have for this bill. The second concerns a wider problem, because the state through this law and through the circle of people who are entitled to benefits, you formulate the image of the Polish family that took place in the 1950s and 1960s, but there is certainly no today. My dad, when he went out for a walk with me in a wheelchair, was an object of absolute amazement to everyone on the street. Today, Dad, who takes care of four children, is nothing unusual. Women in Poland are statistically better educated than men and have a chance to work, to achieve a better career than men. [[Applause]] So let us leave at family level the decision that parents will take to raise four children and stay at home, which will be carried out professionally. Thus, the father has the right to the benefit, to that parental supplement only in a situation where the mother leaves the house or dies, or leaves the children, but there is no possibility when they make a joint decision about which one is professionally employed and which one wants to stay at home. And this is the second set of amendments that we want to make to this law. And one more thing that raises our doubts. I hope this comes out during the committee work. Because the non-obligability of this benefit despite the conditions fulfilled, the discretion of this benefit according to a whim that is difficult to predict [[♪ The bell ♪]] granting this benefit. Please refer this bill to work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u19	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft Parental Service Act no. 3157. I also listened to the Minister and I have doubts about a specific objective which was not so clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum, because the Minister said it was about honoring. I would like social policy, future pension policy not to be honoured or decorated, because this unfortunately results in division. If we start honoring these kinds of benefits or sharing moms or families who have three or four children or five children, and start giving money anyway, it won't be a fair policy. On the other hand, I understand the need for this law to be created in the context of equalising differences and some social solidarity, which was not previously in the case of State aid, because until 1999, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, it was indeed not included in the contribution period. Indeed, women who did not benefit from State aid at the same time, because we know what it looked like, especially in rural areas, e.g. State support in the form of crèches or kindergartens - often there has been no such offer - is currently being wronged. We will no longer make up for it, they are unable to earn benefits, so as compensation and as part of the fact that they have actually done serious work for society in this system, which is now, because we still have a system based on surrogacy in terms of pensions payments, it is absolutely right. Women who have raised one child will probably expect support and work in such a system. It is about children who grew up in families where there were four children or more children, because at the moment it takes two workers to pay one witness. And it won't get much better. On the other hand, our comments concern how social policy can be implemented fairly or at least in solidarity if it is no longer entirely fair. There are solutions we'd like to talk about. First of all, we can talk about our citizens' pension proposal, because it is very important that we remember that someone who reaches retirement age has the means of living. Let it be as high as at the moment the CSO calculates that 1400 zlotys need to maintain, to survive a person in Poland at such a really basic level. The lowest pension, the lowest pension benefits, unfortunately, are still far from it, i.e. below the limit and the possibility of actually functioning in Poland. Projects have also been reported - you have been raising this for years, this has never been introduced - for tax collection. What's the point of taking tax out of these lowest pensions? After all, you raise your gross, and 200 zlotys will take the state out of these pensions again. What's the point of doing this? What's the point of making these costs? Indeed, it is worth considering whether to tax this benefit again. If we're talking about a fair approach not to share people, pensioners, working, not working, including young mothers who enter the labour market... Ladies and gentlemen! One basic thing: tax-free amount, tax-free amount for all young people who want to start a family, workers, pensioners, all who earn in Poland. Tax-free amount. Returning to this amount of PLN 1400, I would like to say that this is the minimum, which is the amount that should not be taken anymore, because there is nothing to share. In the case of the amount of 1400 PLN - it is the CUS said - there is nothing to share. So this amount should be at least 17,000 according to these calculations, not to mention that Members still have 30,000. The amount of 17,000. That's what would be fair to everyone. We wouldn't introduce honor, differentiation, depending on the number of children, on how much sacrifices we made when it comes to being a mom. This is a fair solution, because please pay attention to this moment. If we are talking about backwards and acquired rights, yes, but you are not introducing anything that guarantees Moms now entering the labour market that they will feel that they will have any retirement. Many young women do not choose motherhood because they do not have certainty or stability. And you can't really tell just one way: it's in such a case, dear young moms, give birth to four children. What if that's not a decision? After all, the decision to have a child cannot be a financial decision. So let's really think about it, because at the same time we pay a benefit that is fair and for which we are in favour of continuing to work, while at the same time young moms who want to start e.g. business activity, we raised the ZUS by PLN 100 and now we have PLN 1300. So let's not talk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this benefit is entirely fair to all, but let us start a serious, cross-party discussion about the reform of the pension system and the Social Security Office. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We'll slap you for that amount free, we'll slap you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u22	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by saying it's really good that we're talking about the social program today, about pensions. At this point I would like to stress that for the Polish People's Party the most important problem that we should discuss today, when working on the bill, is the pension law without tax. This law has been made in civil mode and is waiting for work in the Social Policy Committee. On the other hand, I would like to say to this law that it is possible - and this must be clearly said - thanks to the inclusion of educational leave introduced in 2012. Then we secured in the state budget about PLN 1400 million for the contribution of pension leave to both those who work and those who have been uninsured so far. This law contains a certain interesting and important idea, while execution itself is no longer good. Firstly, the Act grants pensions to people who have not worked, has not earned a pension, has given birth and has raised at least four children. Why are many children's mothers who have shared child care with work not appreciated? Very often, because of the family situation, they usually did low-paid work and their pensions are minimal. According to the government, should a woman who's never worked and a woman with 40 years' work experience get the same money? Secondly, the project raises even more controversy with regard to the situation of women on the so-called. EWK pensions, namely mothers of disabled people who, after working for 20 years, went to early retirement to take care of sick children. Their benefits today amount to PLN 700.800, half the amount of the care provision, less than the lowest pension. There are about 33 thousand such women in Poland. These people live with disabled adults at the limit of minimum existence and feel punished for working. It's inhumane to leave them to themselves when more money is given to people who have never worked. Therefore, we are calling for the so-called increase as soon as possible. EWK pensions up to the amount of the care provision, preferably from the date of application of the law in question. Thirdly, this law requires clarification on at least two points. The first point concerns Article. 2 which specifies that the designer understands the child's own child or spouse or the adopted child. Consider this case when the mother of two children is involved with the father of another two, three children, and after a month of marriage she is applying for a pension for four children. We propose that the rules be clarified by defining certain time-limits. The second point that we think needs to be clarified is Article. 5, which says that it is possible to refuse to grant the benefit to a person who has been deprived of parental authority or whose court has limited parental authority by placing the child in foster care. Should a pension for raising a child be allowed in situations where parental authority is limited without directing to a foster family? Let's think about it. In conclusion, we will present amendments during the second reading and, of course, we will take an active part in the work of the committee. The law needs to be clarified, but a system of incentives should also be created and work ethos should be rewarded, because the condition for a rich society is to build a work ethos and it is worth keeping this in mind, and then - after hearing earlier speeches - this law will be recognised by the whole House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are seniors and seniors whose retirement is so low that it is not enough for a decent life, for drugs, for rehabilitation, for food. Especially difficult - and that is what we all know - is and will be the situation of women. They are the ones who receive lower pensions, lower benefits and they will receive lower pensions and benefits for various reasons: because of shorter work placements, because of maternity or parental leave, also because they simply earn less. Already among those who receive the lowest pension benefit, almost 80-90% they are women, and the average amount of their pensions is 1 000. zł lower than men's pensions. The proposed bill introduces a new form of supplementary benefit. The authors estimate that it will cover about 85 thousand. pensioners, women who have not worked professionally or have not worked this pension. From the point of view of protection against poverty, aid in the form of this benefit seems to be an idea and a right solution. On the other hand... First of all, equality. The bill discriminates and violates the rights of fathers. First of all, it violates the article. 33 the Constitution, which talks about equality between men and women in relation to the law and in public life. You judge the primacy of a woman to receive such a benefit. Why? After all, men could also have been in a situation where they stayed at home. Fortunately, this family model has and will take place in Poland more and more often. [[They're in the bill.]] [[Read the bill.]] Secondly, the question of justice. Over 700,000. women worked and at the same time raised four children and more. What about these women? Is it fair that they will receive the same amount of benefit as those women who, for various reasons, could not take up work? Don't they also deserve any form of benefit, supplement, assistance, as the Minister says, to honor the fact that they have contributed to the development of certain social capital, birth, education of four and more children? Thirdly, looking at the legal solutions in the long term, I would like to say that unfortunately they give, especially for women, such a signal to allow them to withdraw from the labour market. The government should look for tools to activate professional citizens, to help parents combine work and childcare through extended institutional care, nursery, kindergarten, by facilitating part-time work with child training. Caretakers of people with disabilities. My question: What is the situation of people who are at the so-called. EWK pensions? What is it like with people who had to give up their jobs or cared for children with disabilities all their lives, then adults with disabilities? Will this honor also be fair to them? And last of all, family model. And the government, and the law, should promote the idea of equality, equal division of responsibilities of both parents, domestic and professional among both family-makers, raising children and working partners. This should be clearly indicated and given the tools to make equality and change stereotypical thinking that it is a woman who has to stay home and raise children, just start to function. We are in favour of women and men both in terms of law and family thinking having exactly the same rights, so that they can freely make decisions that go to work, whether they both go to work, whether they go to work only one of them. And these tools just have to be created. The proposed solution is not systemic. It is a drop in the sea of needs, it is about low benefits, low pensions. It does not solve the problem, it does not give the tools to be able to choose freely, whether to stay at home, caring for children, fully aware of what the future will look like, or simply go to work. Hence the question, ladies and gentlemen: What's next? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u25	Next, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, WiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for the Parental Service Act. This project is another proof that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki does not throw words into the wind and realize his promises. The solution contained in it is addressed to Polish families and together with programs 500+, Faced with the fact that we are one of the fastest ageing societies in Europe, the pro-family activities of the government are particularly important to me. Above all, they require support and constructive debate to reflect the real expectations of our citizens. The solutions contained in this project are an act of appreciating and properly honoring the work of mothers and in particular cases also fathers who raise children in multi-children's families. Under these regulations, persons who have not earned a pension or who have earned a pension below the minimum and who have raised at least four children will be entitled to a pension. I am convinced that, as far as mothers of many families are concerned, the decision to resign from employment is based on economic and welfare considerations and not, as the opponents argue, laziness. Therefore, in my view, this project not only counteracts poverty in this social group, but also meets social expectations. More than PLN 800 million have been reserved for the implementation of the "Mama 4+" programme in the draft State budget for 2019. Over the years, Polish parents did not receive much support from the state. The current power has repeatedly shown that it sees the importance of family and motivates Poles to give family values priority. The Free and Solidarnia Circle fully supports and fully supports all pro-family activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u27	And now Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You don't have a minister, and I wanted to address her... Recently, Minister Rafalska on government television said that the act "Mama 4+" is a solution that honors multi-child mothers who could not find work, took care of children, and it is a form of redress. After these words I asked my friends mothers many children, and I myself come from a large family, for opinions about this project. And what did I hear? I've heard that it's a good project, but it's good only on the slogan of the election, good as a marketing product, that it's obviously great PR, but to the reality and the needs of mothers, it's just to say it's not bad. Of course, one could be glad that the Polish government noticed that working at home, whether it's about the mother or the father, is important and that it needs to be appreciated, but it's a shame that he didn't listen or listen to it, he doesn't listen to what women say about work at home for many, many years. I'm surprised he didn't listen to these demands. I cannot agree with the positive assessment of this law because it is holes and illogical. First of all, she's being persuaded not to work, and in return, she's just offering money. I have repeatedly said here, on this speaker, that it is impossible to encourage citizens and citizens not to work, even those who have more than four children. The government should just notice these families and help them, not say, don't work, because we're gonna give you the money at some point when the elections are coming. With this bill, the government here and now offers mothers something that will only be 30 years from now. I understand that it's just a PR procedure to say that we're gonna give you, but that we're gonna give you 30 years from now doesn't matter anymore. It's just pure politics. [[From 1 March, Member.]] My dears! Do you know - ladies so active here - that they are e.g. That's 20,000. residents of a city where there is only one nursery, e.g. You mean like the Podlaskie Falcons? In order to register your child there, you go through this recruitment process as if this child had signed up for Oxford University. Why don't you think about it, like, 20,000-dollar towns. The residents, the mothers living there, who have a lot of children, and they don't have the ability to put their baby in the nursery? Do you know, ladies, that if these mothers go on maternity and parental leave, it is often that they are omitted at the workplace for bonuses, additions and promotions? Do you know that or do you not know that? You probably don't know. [[The employers, please.]] Do you know that when these ladies come back to work, they can't get out of this job very often, for example. when they want to feed their child because the employer doesn't agree to it? Why, for example? You're not working on it? Why do you keep telling women not to work? The next question I ask is: Why is it a "Mama 4+" program? Do we have three kids work less, give less, break less nights? It's not gonna happen. But I'll tell you why you chose Mama 4+. You did it because it's cheaper - it's just pure math - because it only contains 80,000. mothers. In general, you forget about your mothers at EWK - my friend from PSL said it earlier - it's 33,000. mothers, women who have decided to do this after 20 years of work and take care of their disabled children. And one more thing. In this bill, you do not consider mothers who take care of disabled children at all, sacrificing their lives to raise disabled children. Mrs. Rafalska and Mrs. Szydło weren't here right now, and they weren't running down the Danube when they protested the mothers of children with disabilities for 40 days. But back to those four kids. My mother is the mother of four children, I myself have three and I know exactly what the challenge is to take care of the house, raise the children and still work. But I suppose you don't know what it's like. [[Yeah, 'cause we don't have kids.]] Yeah, you don't know, because you think the best thing about family is the traditional model. Ladies and gentlemen! If you really care about the welfare of mothers, you could finally think about system solutions, not about putting money to the right and to the left in the election year, because it's going to end very, very badly. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Aren't you a pro-family?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u29	Mr Jan Klawiter, not associated. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill, the proposal for such a law is very necessary, because it is necessary to honor the efforts of mothers in raising children, but I think that this project should be completely overworked because it has very important shortcomings. The first important drawback is that he is unjust. As long as you could say that 500+ is more or less fair because you get on a child 500 PLN and hi... A similar justice must be applied here. If the mother gave birth to four children, she should get a certain amount. If she had six or eight children and had more work, she should have a higher amount. Then we can talk about some justice and proportionality. If the mother worked and made an effort to work and raise children, she should get some amount, e.g. 300 zlotys per child, no matter how much retirement she retired because she worked hard for it, too. This is basic justice that... Model yourselves in this respect on the 500+ programme to make it fair. This proportionality should be excluded. This project has little demographic significance. I want a certain amount of money for women who already have three children, but I understand that 800 million is not enough, and that is not enough for now. So let's build the program so that we start with four children and for every fourth child, the mother gets, say, 200 or 300 PLN, as much as possible. This way, we'll save on red tape. 'Cause now it's gonna be like we're following a mother with four kids, whether she's made a living or worked extra when she's retired or something's gonna change, and if she does, then we're gonna cut off that supplement, and so on. No. Why do we need so many bureaucrats and officials? There you go, once you qualify as in the case of 500+ that you have a supplement, that's okay - then there's no bureaucracy, nobody follows her or checks her papers, whether she's earned extra or not, or if her financial situation has changed. Therefore, I have a huge request: let's try to look at it systematically, from the perspective of doing it fairly, so that it will always be... Now, in the case of this solution, the Minister has also admitted this in the interview - that the claims will be made by the mothers who have worked for this pension. Let's make it fairer because we're patching holes now. Let's give ourselves some time - a month or two months to offer something decent, for example. That now we're gonna give you four kids, then three kids are gonna give you some money. This is the best solution for me, because this is how we solve a number of problems, and no matter how much the mother has worked out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u31	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If anyone wants to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list... Anyone else want to sign up to ask questions? No? I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Alicia Chybick has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have four questions. This bill is very much needed. It's good to see the hard work of women at home. The doubts that raise these questions are: Will no mother with four children be excluded? The bill states that it will be the ZUS and the KRUS who will decide whether to give or not, and the rules on which this decision will be made are not given there. Second question. How will child care be checked? Because that's what the bill says. Is your mother's signature enough? Or if the mother had a baby, she was at home, but she didn't do anything, and she was taking care of Grandma's baby, she's getting that pension, too? Point three, question three. What do mothers who worked, raised, and earned the lowest pension get? Because it's no use fooling yourself that two jobs together are certainly very hard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Halina Szydleko. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My question concerns foreigners who will be able to apply for this benefit if they are in Poland, on the terms set out in the bill. Does the obligation to stay in Poland also apply to children? If the condition for receiving this benefit is the birth and upbringing of children here, I understand that this does not apply when these children are outside the country. And are there tools to verify that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u35	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. [[There it is, there it is.]] There it is. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, you have to say what it's like. It's a bill on the birth benefit of four children, and that's a thing that's out of the question. But we don't function in a certain vacuum either. In 2014 the Large Family Charter Act was passed and this law defines exactly what it is... [[Voices from the room: Multiplicity.]] ...a family of many children. That's three kids. Why are we creating a new mechanism and a new definition? There is also a definition of a family member in this Large Family Charter Act. It's a parent. Why doesn't this bill include both parents, just their mother? And why isn't the issue of parenting verified as well? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, we are dealing with the parental responsibility of two parents in the educational process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u37	Thank you. Mrs Maria Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister said that we are dealing with a scandalous situation in which mothers with four children, as defined in the Act, do not receive pension benefits. And don't you think the scandalous situation is that mothers who raised four and more children and worked will get the same benefit today as these women? Have you not heard many words that fall in many places in Poland at various meetings, that this is an outrageous situation? If you do not accept the amendment proposed by the Civic Platform Club, it means that your plus programme, which in fact eliminates a large part of the population with benefits, and this bill is a purely political, PR and electoral matter, which is supposed to give you more votes. Today will be a test. If, ladies and gentlemen, you do not accept this amendment and marginalize this group of people who did not only raise children, she also worked, which is the country's most useful, if we are to consider it in these categories, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That means it's just a delusion and an election mom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u39	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have heard in the statements of Members of the Law and Justice and the club that this project meets social expectations. Nothing more vicious. This project does not meet social expectations, because when Prime Minister and Minister Rafalska spoke about the idea of honoring mothers who had four and more children, women were convinced that all who were mothers of such a happy group would receive some support, honoring, some bonus or other kind of help. That's not what happened. It's selective, only some groups of women have been treated that way. I ask: Why did women who had four, five, and more children work because they had to, get no support? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u41	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Frydrych.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Art. 3 (1) (a) 3 of this law states that the benefit may be granted to the mother after reaching a certain age where he does not have income providing the necessary means of subsistence. What does that mean? What is the criterion? What's the amount? Next, what if a mother takes a permanent allowance from social services? Are these the necessary resources from this livelihood? Will he receive the benefit or will he not receive the benefit? Another question. Husband has a high pension, provides his wife with a means of subsistence. Will the wife receive the benefit or will she not receive the benefit? And finally, what about the people who raised four and more children and have a pension? Aren't you afraid this bill is seizing? I'm sure there's a premium on lack of professional activity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u43	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just so we're clear and straightened out, this isn't a pension for mothers, this is a special benefit, which means we have a special way of granting. It is not granted because certain conditions are met, but only the decision of the authority, and precisely the President of the Social Security Office, is needed here. Of course, the bill contains various requirements, some more, some less defined, but there is a gate left here. This is a benefit granted to a chosen group of children, namely mothers who had four children or raised them, or, if the mother is dead or abandoned the child, the father. Only that we have a legal problem that the Law and Justice are not doing very well in this term of office, and it is about equality and non-discrimination - Article. 32 constitutions. I mean, what's the difference between a mother and a father when it comes to family? They should have the same rights when it comes to granting special benefits. If it doesn't exist, it means that this bill doesn't comply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These conditions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u45	Mr Wojciech Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law clearly discriminates against fathers, and women treat them stereotypically, in a wrong way imposing the idea that only mothers are responsible for raising children. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the mother and father are equally responsible for raising children. [[Applause]] [[Member of Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Please read the bill.]] And whether or not whoever resigns from their employment depends on their joint decision, on their economic and professional situation. The Act only talks about mothers... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...so it should be considered discriminatory and even primitive. [[Voice from the room: Read the bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question should be asked here: How much will a parent who has worked and raised children receive retirement benefits? He gets the lowest pension, he doesn't get a higher pension. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will these people be treated in such an unfair way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u47	Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki said that the "Mama 4+" programme was an expression of gratitude to mothers who had given birth and raised at least four children. And what about the mothers who raised at least four children and put up with it, combined the work with the work? How does the government intend to appreciate them or, in Minister's words, honor them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u49	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act provides for parental supplementary services to mothers who have given birth and raised at least four children and have therefore not taken up employment. I would like to ask what would be the cost of taking into account the opposition's claim for a pension of 1/3 of the minimum pension... [[3 billion.]] ...to women who have taken up work, raising no less than four children. It could be a written answer. I would also like to address the PO-KO club with the question of why he did not introduce such benefits, ruling by two terms. [[Because there was an economic crisis.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u51	Mr Mirosław... [[You've been an envoy before. Why didn't you?]] What's with the screams? What's with the screams? Where are we? I would like to invite you to conduct the discussion in the roundabouts. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u53	Okay, no, just a second, 'cause we've been having adventures with ladies since the beginning of our term. I just don't tolerate the jury screaming. If you ladies want to speak, I invite you here. [[But you're not my boss.]] Yes, I am. I have a duty, among others. Keep an eye on the culture in the courtroom, that's what the citizens pay me to do, and I'm gonna keep an eye on it. [[Voice from the room: We try.]] And the ladies will stop screaming. [[Start with your culture.]] That's it, that's it. Okay? [[Applause]] [[Don't yell at the Members.]] Mr Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u54	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that, in my view, this project is deeply unfair because it provides for allowances for a very narrow group of citizens, mostly women, and I have no doubt that this project, ladies and gentlemen, is dictated solely by an election campaign. I would like to say that the use of mothers in the electoral campaign of Law and Justice is a really sad business, and I am very sorry that some of the High House is pursuing such a policy. I want to ask: What about the parents who raised four and more children? [[Applause]] Why didn't you predict anything in the project that would somehow appreciate those parents, mothers and fathers who, with extraordinary dedication, very often alone, raised children and at the same time worked to support their family? Why does Law and Justice discriminate against fathers? And finally, unlike the right side of the room, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unlike Law and Justice, I highly respect all these parents, Modern respects all those parents who have raised four and more children...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u55	Thank you, sir. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u56	...three kids, two kids, one kid and they worked at the same time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u57	Mr President, please do not exceed the time. Very culturally, but you're out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two doubts. One is about dividing citizens again. At the moment, you are facing the mothers of four and more children, and you want to honor and appreciate those who have devoted themselves to their upbringing and have not worked or resigned from their work, and those mothers who have put their efforts into upbringing, but at the same time the material situation has forced them to take up work, but at the same time have not earned enough pensions and receive the lowest pension, the lowest pension. They won't get this extra benefit from the state. The second question concerns the discretion of receiving this benefit. Well, first the mother must ask for this witness by making a request, and then depending on the kindness or lack of this grace, the presidents will depend on whether she receives it or does not receive it. These are the doubts, i.e. the sharing of citizens, but also the discretion and favor or disfavor of the presidents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're just not acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u59	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u60	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Combining work and work at home, because it is very hard work, is difficult. I know, I've got three kids myself, and after my parental and maternity benefits, I've worked, even though I'm not always full-time. The frustration of such parents will increase. But what about those mothers and fathers who can't really work, who have children with a deep disability, who spend their whole lives with them? When such a child dies after years of illness, mom or dad is left without means to live, without work experience, without a chance to work, completely without means to live. Are you going to look your parents in the eye? What about single parents who have two children, including one disabled child, who later remain without means to live if they can't work? I understand that the political objective is achieved, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the social goal, ladies and gentlemen, is not achieved in this situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u61	Thank you. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska. You don't have an MP? You're an MP. [[Sibińska before.]] Oh, sorry, Mrs Sibińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask how the government intends to appreciate the difficulty of raising children and honor mothers like my mother Maria, who, like many other mothers, gave birth and raised four children and who worked hard all the time, often for change, physically. Don't such women deserve to be honored? Shouldn't such women be appreciated? Is it a good thing that you're sharing society again? I would like to see Minister Rafalska, as well as Prime Minister Morawiecki lean on this, on such women, Poles, mothers, who have linked their professional work to the upbringing of children, and this is often very, very difficult. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You assumed that it was only after four children were born that it was difficult to work, that it was impossible to combine it with work by raising four children. I wanted to ask you: What if the family has a disabled child and is forced, not by their own choice, to stop working and not engage in activity? What about the parents who are staying today at the so-called. EWK pensions? What about parents who are in nursing care today and their child dies? What benefits will they have then? Today they receive a care allowance, which is higher and than the pension of the EWK, and from other benefits, than the lowest pension. What about their parents when their children die when they do not have this benefit when they are not entitled to retirement or have the lowest benefits? Do you also think about this social group? Why are you talking about system solutions, and you're skipping other groups, skipping fathers, skipping mothers that combine work with raising children, and above all, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you ignoring parents in a very difficult situation with disabled children without their own choice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u65	Thank you. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Rafalska has stated that the benefit of Mama+....will belong to people who do not have any income. Will the mother of four children who receive a pension on her own after the deceased husband have the right to receive a pension of 1100 PLN, or will she have to pay for 1100 PLN gross without the possibility of taking any kind of employment to survive each month? It is also about mothers who have children with disabilities, and these children with disabilities are four and sometimes five. What about those moms? Will they have more benefits or aid? [[Help.]] I'm very interested in that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u67	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of the law itself may be right, but the execution is unfortunately no longer. This project is unfair. Unrighteous, for it would be just if every mother received such an allowance for every born child, not for the fourth. Moreover, there is also discrimination and a violation of the rights of fathers. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't we consider such an important element as work ethos? After all, children learn by watching their parents. And at this point, we're actually creating generations that are waiting for you to give them something. You don't have anything to give, we're just going to work. In this respect, I believe that we should first pay attention to working mothers who have devoted themselves both to their education and to their work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u69	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is proposed to grant pensions to persons who have raised at least four children. This raises the question: Will retirement also benefit parents who have adopted children? The explanatory memorandum states that the proposed regulations appreciate the educational work of parents in families of many children, providing for certain measures after retirement age. What about mothers who had a hard time bringing up their children? For working and raising four children at the same time, they should get an allowance for retirement. This is unequal treatment of women. In fact, they're being punished for it. I have another question: Is it a mother who raised four children, but has not worked or worked, let's say, for a few months, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be entitled to a pension if it reaches retirement age? What are the criteria for granting this benefit? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u71	Mr Grzegorz Lorek. Come on in. [[Why are you going the long way?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! One way to increase retirement is to have children. Such provisions are in force in the legislation of many European Union countries. In Germany, for the year of raising a child, the same amount is given for a year's work in the case of 36 000 wages. Euros. It's time for Poland to join. Let us begin by saying that raising children is an important contribution to the future of a nation that finally appreciates families of many children. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Art. 3 (1) (a) 2 speaks of a loss of authority. I have a question: What is meant by the long - term cessation of motherhood? I'm asking you to elaborate. I know we have to start somewhere today. Is it possible, according to records, to include three children? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz July. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with where number four came from. That's such a basic question. I don't want to believe that this number 4 is related to the fact that it's such a good slogan for pensions for multiple-child mothers so that it doesn't work out the most expensive. That's how you imagine it, I guess that's what it's all about. I'd like to ask you a question. Firstly, will the Large Family Charter be adapted to this 4+ project, i.e. the number of these children will be increased to four when it comes to this formula of a multi-child family or vice versa, this bill will be adapted to the Large Family Charter? Are we gonna talk about how there's a solution for three kids, too? Of course, we need to talk. about fathers, because it's something extraordinary at all that fathers are excluded from this bill. They can also raise four children, not just a woman. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is also my question to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u75	Thank you. I invite Mrs Iwona Krawczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u76	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have no doubt that this is a very important social project, but I have doubts whether the proposed changes include all those we want to compensate for when it comes to raising children. What is the difference between a mother who raised three children, e.g. One disabled, from a mother who raised four children? In the program itself, the name should be changed to parent+. Maybe this should also be taken into account in the changes that will be proposed? [[Applause]] I'd like to ask you again why we're giving fish once again instead of fishing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Why aren't we looking for solutions that are systemic, which will take significant account of the fact that children are raised, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we're throwing in resources for this in election mode? [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u77	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Lenz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask you a question, I would like to ask your marshal not to raise his voice to the ladies in this Chamber, to the Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u79	Those screaming ladies, right? [[What's this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u80	If you have children, you might be able to act like one, Marshal. I'm really asking you not to cross a certain cultural threshold in this courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u81	And now, sir, or you'll get to the point...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u82	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u83	...and will refrain from lecturing me, because I'm the one running the proceedings, not you... [[Why don't you apologize to the marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u84	You're as parliamentarians as I am.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u85	If you sit in my seat and conduct the deliberations, you'll keep an eye on the standards. I have a duty to make sure your friends don't yell. I have been very culturally paying attention to them for 3 years, periodically, cyclically, and I will continue to pay attention. Now, sir, let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u86	One last question. You've taken a lot of time. I hope I can ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u87	I'll pay you back, I'll pay you back...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u88	On the other hand, I maintain my call for culture, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u89	Don't stick to the subject, get to the point, or I won't extend your speaking time. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u90	Minister! I would like to ask you a specific question about the draft law we are discussing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's been a lot of talk about this bill, there's a lot in the media. A person came to my parliamentary office on Monday with a specific question: I married a widower who had a child at the age of six, a daughter. Then I gave birth to three children in this relationship and raised four children without taking up a job. Today we live on the pension of a husband who suffered an accident at a workplace. After reaching retirement age, will I receive a benefit as a mother who raised four children? I wish we knew about these things. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u91	Thank you. Mr Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It's a very good regulation, which aims to honor mothers who raised four and more children. I would very much like to stress the fact that the purpose of this regulation is also to ensure the safety of these people so that in the autumn of life they have the means of living. I am convinced that these mothers will not hold back as long as they have the opportunity to engage in work. I do not see such an element in this regulation. I am similarly surprised by the arguments put forward by many ladies and gentlemen concerning the lack of justice in this solution. Minister! I would ask you to remind those social policy instruments that are available to large families, which are also available to those families that [[♪ The bell ♪]] they have obtained these pension rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u94	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am convinced that social policy, as some solutions are introduced, must, firstly, be universal and secondly, fair or vice versa. With regard to this solution, as with the previous one introduced by the State, i.e. 500+, unfortunately, neither this solution nor 500+ is fair. In the case of 500+ you ruled out as much as 45% Children, exactly 3.1 million children, you gave 3.8 million children. In the case of mothers who raise four children, you rule out as many as 90% mothers who turned 60 and raised four children. That's 90%. Only 10% You're giving this witness. So, perhaps at this stage of proceding, it would be good for you to think about how to actually honor these 90%. mothers who [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've already raised four children and turned 60, otherwise it's just not fair. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Rometki. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u96	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Act sets out the terms and conditions for granting, paying, financing the parental benefit. The purpose of the benefit is to provide the necessary means of subsistence for those who have resigned from work and work to care for the raising of children. The bill refers to mothers who raised four children. I have a question here: Why haven't I considered having three children and often disabled children, or more children? What kind of babysitting looks like, we all know. They require care 24 hours a day for all days. And another question: Why do mothers who have worked and raised three children at the same time not receive and should receive allowances for their pension? Maybe you should lean on it and admit it. I think we need to lean on these women and honor the moms who have put so much strength and health into raising them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] our children, our children, our hope. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u97	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u98	I would like to ask the Minister why, when submitting this project, he so effectively divided the Polish women, mothers who have four children, because you said that you honor mothers who had four children. That's not true. That's not true. You only honor part of the Poles with this project. What about the others? So you've effectively divided it. The polish for those you honor today, you give them the benefit - that's the 10% Poles - and those who fought, worked, raised children, and unfortunately you do not give them such support. I am outraged to hear from one of the messengers that said that mothers who did not work cared for the welfare of their children. And where were the mothers who raised their children and worked? They didn't care about the children's welfare? You can't share like that. You didn't get EWK pensions, support for disabled families, support for single-parent mothers. This project divides. You should be thinking the same thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] about mothers who gave birth to four children if we want to be fair in this courtroom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u99	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In order to give something, you have to have money for it. In the days of the Civic Platform and the PSL, under the rule of this coalition... [[Don't give me the TV.]] ...there was no money, there was an increase in retirement age, there was an amendment to the valorization bill, so that less money could be spent on the valorization of pensions and pensions. The Government of Law and Justice has been pursuing a good policy towards the family from the outset. After 500+ and other programs came the time for an extra pension scheme for those mothers who gave birth and raised at least four children and did not have pension benefits, insured after the age of 60. Here I hear, as in the case of the 500+ and other program, words of outrage. So I have a question for the Minister: whether by giving extra pensions to those women who have not earned their own benefits or by increasing this benefit to the minimum, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whoever's taking anything, or is it just an extra project to honor these mothers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u101	Thank you. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u102	Three years ago, the election slogan was 500+. 500+? No, 500? [[Applause]] Why? Because not for the first child and not for single mothers. Today you're saying, "Mama+..." "Mama 4+..." No, Mama minus, because those mothers who have children with disabilities are taking care of today... [[Don't repeat yourself.]] ...and when the baby dies, what? They have nothing. You're ruling out again, you're dividing Poles into... [[Voice from the hall: What happened in your day?]] ...better and worse sort and you're cheating again. These are just your electoral lies, just pre-election propaganda. [[Touchdown, applause]] Poles, mothers do not expect Prime Minister Moravian to reward for many children. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Poles, mothers expect equality. [[Voice from the Chamber: How do you know about this?]] Does the PiS government really care about families and mothers, or is it just an incentive to vote for the PiS? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u103	Please, Mr Antoni Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice reports a bill that appreciates multiple parenting. We want the mother, but also the father, who did not earn a pension when they raised at least four children and did not work professionally or worked too short to earn a minimum pension, to receive one. It is social justice that tells us not to say that they did not work, because such a term is far hurtful. [[Applause]] What do the Members of the opposition say? It's not right to deny it, so at least we have to make it harder for the idea. Let's give it to everyone. When you were in power, this idea never occurred to you, and it was socially just. [[Zero.]] The extension of the group of persons entitled to implement the idea will certainly delay a little, as this should be calculated, the financial possibilities of the State should be estimated. And I'm sure that's what you're after. It is a good situation that there are mothers who raised four children and had the opportunity to work, which gave them retirement. In this project, we lean on those that didn't have that possibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As for social justice, I recommend to the believers a passage of the Gospel that speaks of hired workers to the vineyard of the Lord, morning, noon and evening, and their wages. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u105	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If this bill is to honor mothers who work hard, then we must not ignore mothers who have children with disabilities. Often raising one child in terms of workload is equal to raising six children. Then you mustn't leave these mothers out. And line two. Raising four children causes that after a while, after keeping these children, when mom could get back to work, the labour market is closed to her. If you are talking about a systemic solution, you would also expect a solution to this problem. What's a mother supposed to do with herself, who's about 50 years old, who's got kids, they're school-aged, they're four kids, but for her, her career is closed because no one's gonna take her? So either a holistic solution, or... we're at this stage where we can improve this bill, so let's improve it. The number of votes, I'm going to say it again, because otherwise it's impossible to say [[♪ The bell ♪]] the honoring of mothers of children with disabilities was so great in this room that they cannot ignore it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u107	Thank you, Member. Mr Piotr Pyzik. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Appreciation and honoring of people who have raised at least four children fills the expectations of the most fundamental features of our national culture. One of its deepest roots is respect for mother and father, donors of life and upbringing. The fact that the legislator determines special benefits in this area should already have a financial dimension, but also a material dimension. I hope that this will also make it more common for some communities to condemn contempt for families of many children and ridicule from mothers who have dedicated themselves to raising their children. But I have a question. Is it possible in the foreseeable future to obtain the benefit financially not only by persons who do not have the right to a full normal pension? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u109	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The witness will be given at the request of the person concerned. Is it possible for the institutions concerned to also reach out to such persons with information about their witnessing, helping to settle formalities? For there are certainly also such people, often older, ill, who will have the right to witness, and their life situation will make it difficult for them to get to the information and to arrange formalities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u111	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u112	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! The parenting supplemental witnessing is a dignity project, showing that the state appreciates the difficulty of raising children. And contrary to what the opposition Members are saying here today, parents who are dedicated to the bill are very happy and waiting for this solution. They also thank for the fact that their hard work for the family was finally noticed and appreciated. Members of the opposition are as usual trying to discredit the idea of the project. On the one hand, they are talking about the need for financial support for women, especially those who are retired, and on the other hand they are criticising the project. Today the opposition cares so much, so the opposition state cares - at least you say that you care - about women. Why didn't you propose such a project in your own governments? In fact, you showed your support to women by raising their retirement age. Minister! Will the adoption of the project improve the financial situation of Polish families? And to the opposition: stop criticizing, don't look for a hole in the whole thing. Show the Poles that you are pro-family. You guys finally have a chance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u113	Please, Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a very good project, and I'm surprised to hear the opposition contest it, saying they don't like it. You could've done a better project for all these years, and it would've been done by now. You also say that the witness will depend on some official's will. So, Minister, my question is, will the amount of the benefit actually depend on the official's will? That's one thing. Second: Are fathers excluded from this law? [[They're ……]] And are mothers who raise disabled children excluded from this law? I mean, there was a disabled child among the four children, a situation like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u115	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Attention to the PiS Members. If in the years 2005-2007 under the leadership of PiS under the shining leadership of Jarosław Kaczyński introduced this law, some people would already receive these benefits, so such historical tours are inappropriate. And the other thing. Finally decide whether this is a bill to honor the people who had four children or raised them. Because if the ones they gave birth are constitutional, but if the ones they raised are not constitutional because fathers who stayed home and raised these children are ignored. This happens very often at the moment: a woman who is better educated and earning better together with her husband decides that she is working and he is raising children. I therefore believe that it is really necessary to take into account whether this law is compatible with the Constitution and does not violate the principle of equality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u117	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Osos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, as the Minister said, is intended to appreciate the educational effort of mothers who raised four children. I must ask on this occasion when we appreciate the efforts of those who resign to care for adults with disabilities. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is still waiting for implementation and the guardians really expect it. The next question: How will we appreciate those mothers who raised three or four children, who have taken up this effort, and who have combined their work with their children? So we'd really like to just... Such an addition, we believe, would also be an appreciation of the combination of working and raising children. The next question is, do you not think the Minister is a threat here, since we are dealing with a discretionary decision... It may turn out after a woman retires, making an application that this pension will not be granted [[♪ The bell ♪]] - on a discretionary decision. I'm asking you to answer these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u119	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These possible votes planned at the time of the end of the day. 13 won't be there. If they are, then approx. hour. 14 or after 1 p.m. 14... [[What if they're not there?]] Yeah, yeah. ...because there's one more point, the electoral code. [[Marshal, maybe they're not at all?]] It may not be, yes. I encourage you to remain in the room for those who are interested in these points that we are now discussing. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska has the floor. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Mrs Magdalena Ewa Marek. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The conditions created by the law for women who have and raise four or more children discriminate against those women and those men who are parents of four children, actively pursue a job and have acquired the right to retirement. Why are those women who combine professional work with raising children, having difficulty raising children, worse than those women who didn't work at all? Why women and men who have taken up the task of raising children and doing work cannot be granted an allowance for retirement, e.g. of 30% Minimum pension? Why doesn't the bill include families who raised three and more children? After all, they contribute to the growth of children - it is twice as much as the average of children today in Poland. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u121	Thank you. Now Mrs Monika Wielichowska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Women and men have equality enshrined in the Constitution and other legal acts, but it remains too often only a theory. It is true that women still carry a greater burden of family and household responsibilities, women usually take care of children and seniors. It is true that the state expects institutional assistance, but aid which is based on equality, on a partner family model, without stereotypes. That's the most important thing. [[Applause]] Today we are discussing additional witnessing to mothers who had four children and did not work. The project raises controversy, hurts, divides and introduces inequalities - it is about mothers who have worked and raised at least four children - it also excludes fathers. Today we have proposed amendments, which go hand in hand with promotion in the labour market, introduce parental and social equality. Question to the government: What does the government say? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u123	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u124	Minister! According to the bill, foreign women who reside legally in Poland and therefore also mothers who spent a significant part of their adult life abroad, gave birth and raised children there, and Poland simply chose as a country of residence for retirement. In such situations, it is worth recalling that children usually stay abroad. Will such persons be covered by this provision? In this way, I refer to Mrs Szydleko's question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u125	Thank you. I invite Mrs Anna Nemś.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand you need an electoral effect. The CSO statistics say that when it comes to the number of births, there were 10,000 in 2018. Kids less. You need this. effect here and now. The project is not properly worked. Why are you introducing discretion? Why would it be the organ's decision? Why does the Minister, speaking of honoring, forget hundreds, thousands of women who have even more effort, sometimes at the expense of their health, sacrificing themselves, doing their jobs because they wanted their children to be even better? You're forgetting about mothers with three children. Does this pre-election simulation show that this is the best you can do? Is that how you treat a Polish woman? Is that how you rule out those people who had three, four children? Are we going to segregate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tell me, who's better? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u127	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you for another bill that supports the dignity of a large family. I'm saying this as a mother of four children who had to plan family finances with a pencil in her hand, which was humiliated in public. I remember spending on all kinds of benefits such as cinema and other things. Unfortunately, by 2015, normality was treated as abnormal. It was a dream to hire mothers with four children. I wanted to thank you from this point on for leaning on the great social problem, because it is in families of many that proper patterns, empathy and compassion are being built. If we can support multi-child families, because public finances [[♪ The bell ♪]] They allow it, why not? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u129	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u130	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for, I would say, a rich or extensive discussion, for the various threads that you have put forward in this discussion. I will try to respond to the comments that have been made, probably not to everyone, but I think that many answers to many of the questions I have asked will result from perhaps a more detailed explanation by me of what I started with today, i.e. from an attempt to put this draft law in place under today's existing arrangements for the general pension system. I have pointed out to you that we are talking about a new pension system, i.e. the pension scheme, which we call the system of defined contributions - the pension scheme, which can be said to depend directly on the amount of the pension benefit on the amount of the contributions paid during the period covered by the insurance, as well as on the termination of the professional activity. This system of defined contributions includes legal solutions, financial solutions that reward parenting, which encourage decision-making to enlarge the family. I drew attention to this, and you also mentioned in the discussion that since the start of the new pension system, we have in this system taken over by the budget of the State the burden of financing contributions to pension and pension insurance for people receiving maternity benefits, i.e. those taking maternity leave and parental leave, as well as paternity leave. Let me remind you that this is now a period of the year, a period of 12 months. In addition, the state budget has taken on the burden of financing contributions to pension insurance for persons on parental leave. Let me remind you that this is a total period of 3 years. If we add these two periods together, we will get a 4-year period during which the state budget finances contributions to the pension insurance of a person who resigns from his or her job or suspends his or her job and devotes himself to raising a child in the first period of his or her life. I have also drawn your attention to the fact that since 2013 this range of funding has been significantly broader, because it includes not only persons who, due to their employment relationship, have been able to take parental, maternity, paternity, parental and educational leave, but also persons who are subject to pension insurance from other titles, i.e. for non-agricultural activities, for work under civil law contracts, for cooperation and even for the service of the clergy. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that since September 2013, the state budget has financed contributions to the pension insurance of persons who have not had the period before which they have taken care of the child or started to raise the child, that period. It can be said that these are the family policies that are present in the pension insurance system. You're asking me if we don't remember our fathers. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both working mothers and fathers, in accordance with the Labour Code, who are undertaking child rearing, can already benefit from these powers that I have just mentioned. You could say that the decision... [[That's not true.]] Except for the 14-month period of maternity leave... [[Voice from the room: Weekly.]] ...14 weeks, I apologize when it is actually a maternity leave dedicated to a woman, but in order to regenerate after birth or also allow child care in the first period of the child's life. After 14 weeks after birth, the real decision whether the mother or father will benefit from these solutions is simply made in agreement between the parents. [[No, you're not, Minister, you're not.]] You are also asking me whether today's pension system provides for some differentiation of parental support depending on the number of children who remain in the family. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a simple mathematical mechanism. If we are talking about a four-year period for the financing of pension contributions per child, the higher the number of children and the number of children born at appropriate intervals, the longer the state budget finances the pension contributions. In such an extreme case, so we can say, in the case of four children, if children were born in four-year cycles, there is a sixteen-year period for the financing of contributions to pension insurance or to the mother or the father who takes care of the children. So these are the solutions that are already in the pension system today. And, now, if, from this perspective, we look at the solutions that we propose in the draft parental supplementary benefit law, then, as I mentioned in my speech earlier, we see that we are talking about solving some of the problems, some of the shortcomings that occurred in the old pension system, the shortcomings of this - the state also in this discussion you pointed out - that the period of child care was not treated as a contribution period in the old pension system. And that's where the statistics are, which we're paying your attention to. According to our projections, 65,000. persons who wish to benefit from this shall comply with the conditions set out in the Act enabling such benefits to be obtained, namely those who are covered by the old pension scheme - are born before 1 January 1949, which means, ladies and gentlemen, that today they are persons who are 70 years old or older. And that's what honoring the difficulty of raising children, taking care of children in accordance with this law is all about. This law does not change the assumptions of the general pension system, the assumptions which are based on contributions, because the burden of funding parent supplementary benefits is borne by the state budget. The analysis of the assumptions of this bill leads to the conclusion that this is not an insurance benefit, it is a supply benefit, because the financing is not from the Social Insurance Fund but from the State budget. I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Member States to one problem which has been very often discussed here, i.e. the issue of alleged, I stress - unfortunately, it is not unjustified, unconfirmed as if by the provisions of the bill - discrimination against fathers. Ladies and gentlemen! In this draft law there are provisions that provide that fathers will be able to benefit from this solution in the following cases - when they have taken personal care of the child, they have undertaken to raise the child because of the death of the child's mother, because of the child's abandonment of the child, but also - it is worth paying attention to another condition that significantly extends the scope of this provision - in case of long-term cessation of personal care of the child by the mother. So these are the solutions that, you can say, occur in the system. Read the bill. [[There isn't.]] These are solutions that already exist in the labour system and labour law, and social security law. Since I hear that this is a proposal that is discriminatory and violates the Article. 32 and 33 of the Constitution, I encourage you to read the Labour Code and learn the conditions that allow you to take maternity leave, parental leave by the parenting father. These are the powers that are dedicated in the first place to a working mother, and only when it is not possible for the child's mother to exercise this right, the child's father can benefit from either part of maternity leave or whole leave or part of parental leave. The same applies to maternity benefits. I encourage you to reach out to the so-called law. an allowance and an examination of the grounds for acquiring the right to maternity allowance. There was also a thread on the conditions for granting parental supplemental benefits. I would say that this is a benefit that is based on as much as possible on specific grounds as possible, and I agree with you that this is a benefit to which the right will be conditional on the decision of the President of the Social Insurance Institution or the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund to grant the benefit. I agree with the fact that the constitutional element determining the right to this benefit will be the decision, but the decision preceded by a very detailed analysis of a number of conditions which determine the possibility of applying for this benefit. If I hear that the right to this benefit will depend on the parties who are entitled to the decision to grant this benefit under this draft law, this is not, ladies and gentlemen, the thesis which is confirmed by the provisions of this law. I would like to say that the decisions that will be taken by the President of the Social Security Office, by the President of the CRUS, will be subject to a review procedure, an appeal procedure, and this appeal procedure may be examined by the administrative courts. Thus, from the decision to refuse the benefit, the person concerned will be able to lodge a complaint again with the entity which issued the decision, and then from that decision again, if it is issued, will be entitled to a complaint to the regional administrative court. An extraordinary appeal will be dealt with by the Supreme Administrative Court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Time is running out, so I think the remaining doubts will be clarified during the work on the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[In writing, in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, wrote a letter to Marshal Marek Kuchciński, in which he pointed out a record which makes the present witness in the project only applicable to his father after the condition of abandoning his children or of his mother's death. This is the formula of the article. 3 makes the father's right less than the mother's right and additionally conditioned. At the same time, it should be noted that the issue of raising children today is not just a domain of women; men should be treated equally in this regard. The right to such assistance should be taken into account at the request of both the mother and the father, without additional conditions per party. Therefore, I ask you to answer whether this benefit does not discriminate against fathers. What is your response to the Ombudsman's allegations regarding this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u133	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on parental supplementary witnessing to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in print 3157 to the Sejm, with a recommendation to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be examined at this meeting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 19 hrs. 13 min 25]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law (print No 3163). I ask Mrs Anna April to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the group of Members, I have the honour to present a draft law amending the electoral code law, print no. 3163. I would like to remind the High House that in January 2018 the Sejm passed a law to increase citizens' participation in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. The Act introduced numerous changes in the area of electoral law, in particular those relating to elections to local government units. The proposed draft amending the electoral code synchronizes the changes introduced in January 2018 with those relating to the other elections, which in turn is intended to ensure a more efficient electoral procedure in the case of other elections. I would like to stress that the proposed changes are the changes signalled and expected by the State Election Commission and the National Election Office. I would like to point out that the electoral code itself is an extremely extensive law, contains 517 articles, and the proposed proposal contains changes that cover only 32 articles. Allow me to discuss the proposed changes in chronological terms and, of course, I will discuss the most important ones, apart from purely technical changes. Ladies and gentlemen! Amendment 1 refers to Article. 5 The electoral code and is closely linked to the 19th amendment, which refers to the article. 181 electoral code. I would like to stress that the regional electoral commission for voting in the circuit boards and the regional electoral commission for determining the results of the vote is set up only in national local elections. That means we leave only one committee in the remaining elections. Local elections are so complicated and require such extensive work that it is justified to set up two committees: one to vote and the other to determine the results. The next amendment refers to Article. 11 in Chapter 2, which regulates electoral rights. In this article, we propose a new provision in order to align the provisions of the electoral code with the provisions of the law on local workers by regulating in the electoral code the issue of passive electoral rights in a way similar to that of regulating the rules on local workers employed on the basis of elections or appointments. According to the change, in the election, the governor of the right of choice will not have a person sentenced to any penalty by a final judgment of the court for a mental offence prosecuted by a public charge or a deliberate tax offence, and not, as yet, only for a sentence of imprisonment. The adoption of this amendment will eliminate the existing legal conflict between the two laws. This is also a request from the State Election Commission. The next amendment refers to Article. 20. I would like to signal that, in the current legal state, the decision whether or not to include a person in the electoral register shall be made by the governor, the mayor, the president of the city within 3 days of the date of the application. The project envisages extending the deadline for examining the application and issuing a decision on the right of entry or refusal to enter in the electoral register for up to 5 days. This is a proposal from local government. The mayors, mayors and presidents indicated that verification over a period of three days is too short. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also worth mentioning the change we propose in the article. 35, which makes it clear that a non-national citizen of the European Union may vote on the basis of a certificate of the right to vote issued by the consulate. Another important change - appears - is contained in Article. 153, where an additional paragraph is introduced, which states that the electoral commissioner has the right to act as chairman of a district or district electoral commission or to act as a member. Here we remove the collision between the three articles of the electoral code. Another major change appears in Article. 161. Records introduce the possibility for the State Election Commission to adopt resolutions on matters of urgency on a regular basis when it is not possible to convene a committee meeting. It is worth noting that some tasks are subject to a short deadline, e.g. It is not enough to adopt such a resolution, therefore the draft law introduces such a solution and meets the expectations of the State Election Commission and improves the electoral process. Another major change appears in Article. 170. In the current state of law, Commissioners need not be judges. It is proposed to amend the rules in such a way that the District Election Commissions consist of four to 10 judges and, as its chairman, the electoral commissioner, and four judges and of their own, as its chairman, the electoral commissioner. I would like to stress that the Commissioner for Elections does not need to be a judge at the moment, and here we are also removing a certain inaccuracy. It is worth mentioning the changes to Article. 182. In this change we want to diversify the compositions of electoral committees and these warehouses will be conditioned by the number of residents in the circuit. Other provisions of Article 182 describe in detail, ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism for the appointment of members to the regional electoral commission from among the persons notified by the electoral committees and, if the committees fail to exercise their rights, the application of candidates shall be left to the electoral commissioner, who shall complement the committee to the full membership of the voters meeting the condition in paragraph 4, even if the 18th year of age has been completed. It is also important to change the deadline for the submission of candidates for membership, which is harmonised up to 30 days before the election day. Another change in this article is that the candidate for a member of the regional electoral commission must be 18 years old at the date of notification to the committee, not the day of the election, as has been the case so far. This seems very reasonable because such a person then performs a lot of legal work and is not really an adult. Amendment relating to Article. 184 regulates the matter of kinship. It seems that a person related to a candidate in the election may be a member of a regional electoral commission appropriate to other electoral districts than a district in which a person related to him or her is a candidate. It seems that to this day this record has been too restrictive. At the moment, we clarify so that such a person can sit and work on other committees outside the committee from which a related person is running. This Article shall also be supplemented by the addition of the power to dismiss a member of the committee to the electoral commissioner in certain situations. We point out these cases: not participating in the work without justification or taking illegal action. The Commissioner has a plenipotence to call off such a person. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth paying attention to the next change that appears in the article. 218, which fulfils the order of the Constitutional Court, or, in fact, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 18 July 2012, which found that part of the provision of the Article. Point (b) is replaced by the following: 2 concerning the absence of an appeal in this respect is incompatible with the Constitution. This provision has therefore become obsolete, but has so far remained unchanged in the electoral code. Therefore, we change that the State Elections Commission's decision shall be entitled to an action before the Supreme Court within 2 days of the date of publication by the CIC and the Supreme Court shall examine the action within 2 days of the formation of three judges in non-trial proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen! There are changes in the appeal procedure and they relate both to Article. 300, Art. 304, Art. 404 or Art. 405. They regulate this appeal mode and - you can say - there is a wording here that is the key: that this mode runs from the date of publication of the order to the public by the PKW. The State Election Commission has pointed out that very often electoral authorities have had difficulty reaching electoral representatives and phone calls have not been received. I would like to stress that the State Election Commission is not a detective institution or the Polish Red Cross, to search for people, is only to do their work in this very intense time. That is why such a change occurs in these four articles. To conclude my speech, I would like to stress that according to the proposal, the law is to enter into force on the day following the date of the announcement due to the important interests of the State, and the principles of the democratic rule of law do not prevent this law from being adopted. The project has a positive socio-economic impact, even by the fact that there is one committee, not as yet in the legislation - two in all elections. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. So much for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u135	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the electoral code law. Ladies and gentlemen! On 11 January 2018, the Sejm adopted a law amending certain laws to increase the participation of citizens in the selection, operation and control of certain public authorities. The Act introduced numerous changes in the area of electoral law, in particular those relating to elections to local government units. This proposal contains a number of regulations which are designed to contribute to adapting the changes introduced in January 2018 to all types of elections and aim to improve the electoral process. A very important change in the project, which is a kind of a bow towards citizens, is the introduction of the possibility of making applications for district committees directly by voters, not just by electoral committees. In addition, it proposes an important amendment to the rules on the setting-up of regional electoral committees. In accordance with it, in each voting circuit, a regional electoral commission would be set up in the elections to the Sejm and Senate, in the elections of the President of the Republic, in the elections to the European Parliament in the Republic of Poland and in the elections to the organs of local government units held during the term of office, as well as in the supplementary elections to the Senate, and in the regional electoral commission for voting in the circuit and the regional electoral committee for determining the results of the voting in the circuit in the elections to the organs of local government units carried out in connection with the end of the term of office. An important change in the project is also to deprive the passive electoral right of persons convicted of a criminal offence prosecuted by a public prosecution or a criminal offence for any punishment. To date, only those sentenced to imprisonment have been deprived of the possibility of running. It should be noted that the project does not entail additional financial costs for the budgets of local government units. On the contrary: the amendment of the rules on the appointment of two regional committees only in the elections to the authorities of local government units carried out in connection with the end of the term of office of the councils will save the State's budget for the elections. There is also no doubt that its introduction will have a positive social impact, for example. to increase the availability of certain activities or functions. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u137	Thank you. Mr Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u138	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice have always treated ordination as an obstacle to strengthening power, to gaining power. All the changes to the electoral code you proposed during this term have always been controversial, always aroused very great emotions, and the work was characterised by great chaos and mess. You have always tabled amendments to your own amendments on several occasions, and you have already withdrawn from very unwise solutions. And it's no different this time. This time you are proposing solutions which are non-constitutional, because the two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are very clear about the fact that it is necessary to keep the legislative silence 6 months before the first election. You are amending a number of provisions in a chapter that also concerns elections to the European Parliament, so you are already breaking this ruling of the Court. And there can be no agreement to these changes in the election year, not to mention that giving the State - purely theoretically - any agreement to change always opens the door to manipulation. You manipulated the code at the local elections, at the elections to the European Parliament, and now you want to manipulate the rules on elections to the Polish Parliament and Senate. The Civic Platform Club proposes - and in a moment, Mr Protas will make such a request - to reject these changes at first reading. We very much want to encourage the High House to respect the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's judgments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u139	Thank you. Please, Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u140	Ladies and gentlemen! What Law and Justice did with the electoral code last year calls for vengeance to heaven - incompetence, inability, of course, non-constitutional action. Let me just remind you that, by the 18th article act, you made 260 self-corrections. And then you updated this very important piece of legislation. You've caused chaos during the election. No election officials could be appointed in time. You couldn't have called a full board of electoral committees. Voice counting often lasted not many hours, but many days. This is how you prepared the electoral code adopted in January Ub. Today, if I were a naive young man, not a gray, mature man, I'd probably think that you might want to correct these mistakes, go to your senses, you want to make amends to what you've ruined, and you're making a number of changes regarding the appointment of election officials, committees, etc., etc., so that the election process is really going the right way. But it's not, because it's just a veil to prepare a hunt for the insubordinate and independent self-government. You've already prepared the money for the hunt, 1260 million zlotys, and in a moment you'll probably approve. And now you need ammunition for the proper services and the prosecution's office to shoot off these insubordinate and independent wojettes, mayors, presidents. The message will be this: Sire, Mr President, if you are not humble, if you do not pursue the policy as we expect, we will find something on you. Even if a crime where a court finds someone guilty and does not even punish them - even in many cases such a person will not be able to run for office in the upcoming elections. Besides, you're building double standards. You say no, but you do. Why won't he be able to run in such a way, the mayor, the president, and everyone else will be able - for councilmen or for the Seym, for the Senate, for the President of the Republic? These are double standards. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition does not agree with this method of proceding, non-constitutional, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he doesn't agree with these changes. I therefore make a formal request to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u141	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u142	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to print No. 3163, the draft of the Polish Parliamentary Act amending the Code of Elections. The proposed changes meet the proposals and comments of the State Election Commission. The Kukiz Club15 supports the project's message to the committee and will participate actively in further parliamentary work on the electoral code. We also remind you that one-mandate electoral districts need to be introduced, [[Applause]] so that citizens have the opportunity to dismiss their representatives who do not keep their promises. This is the only way to save the country to restore democracy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're starting today... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...the fourth part of the marathon, which can be described as the battle of power over the electoral code. In less than four months we will all have elections to the European Parliament, so Law and Justice has begun another tour of tampering with the provisions of the electoral code. The current term of office of the Sejm is full of special laws. We had a lex Szyszko, a lex developer, we had an attempt to expand the borders of Warsaw with neighboring districts. Now we have, you can say, lex Zdanowska, a parliamentary project with the signatures of PiS politicians. During the campaign in the Łódź voivodship, and especially in Łódź, the continuous party message about the termination of the mandate of the unelected and already cancelled president was ubiquitous. However, the boatmen decided otherwise. They saw falsehood and hypocrisy, and their opposition was clearly shown at the ballot box by giving more than 70% support to the president. Going to the details of the project - the conditions governing the possibility of running for mayor, mayor, president are to be changed. The amendment is intended to deprive the passive electoral right of conviction of intentional offences prosecuted by public prosecution. More precisely, when a person is sentenced to a fine, he will not be able to run. So we have a situation that a great criminal who has to pay a fine of 500 PLN loses his ability to verify in elections and submit to social judgment. Interestingly, this provision is intended to apply only to candidates for the mayors, mayors, presidents. Of course, in the case of Members, even Councillors, it no longer applies. Thus, in an extreme case, there could be up to 100 senators with final convictions other than imprisonment, but this could not affect a single local governmentman. There is also an imbalance between the mayor and the local councillor, because today the councilman may be convicted unless it is a sentence of imprisonment. The question is why there are no uniform rules for all. This question is already addressed to the Member of the Committee presenting this proposal. It can be seen that the spirit of little Kazia is still accompanied by the joyful work of the applicants who actually create these double standards. The project can, of course, be divided into two parts: one which I have already mentioned, and the other concerning the comments and allegations made by both the PKW and the opposition during the work on the amendment of the electoral code in committee. Most of the solutions contained in the Code are work-enhancing, which does not change the fact of typical political outlays. Finally, it follows from the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal that significant changes in electoral law should not be made within at least 6 months before the election order. You can also see here that you have no right to do anything. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats makes a proposal to reject the project at first reading, also because of the instrumental treatment of law and political opponents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u145	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, print no. 3163. As my predecessors have already said in their speeches, the most important charge concerning this law is the charge of its non-constitutionality, because many judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal make it clear that significant changes to the electoral code can only be made six months before the electoral process. We have less than 4 months until the elections to the European Parliament, and the provisions you are proposing in this proposal are unfortunately for less than 6 months and are in our view... [[They're not important.]] ...changes of importance. [[In yours.]] Another very important element is that the state really does not learn anything from the past. It's almost the fourth year of your governments, and you're still making statutory contributions, you're proposing laws that are not consulted at all, to any extent, which are projects, MEPs, you're proposing this kind of procedure. What's more, a very important bill, a government bill, which is the electoral code, you want to push through in one parliamentary day. This is an outrageous way to make law. And that's what we've been talking about here today: the issue of double standards. You want to introduce regional electoral committees without a committee to count votes in all elections outside the local elections. [[Nationals.]] Except for local elections, all national elections. Indeed, neither the justification of the project nor any reasonable justification for the differentiation of these different choices. Of course, we have criticised the setting up of two committees and we have maintained this criticism, but if we change the electoral right for elections to Parliament, to the European Parliament, the change should also apply to local government law in the same way. Another change that also points to double standards. It appears from your submission that only the mayor, mayor, mayor of the city, could not stand as a candidate if he were convicted by a final judgment for a deliberate offence prosecuted by a public prosecution or a deliberate fiscal offence. On the other hand, if a candidate for a Member, a candidate for a senator, even a candidate for a councilman in a local government, was convicted of the same offence, he would not be deprived of the right to vote. It's really made with very thick threads. In the general sense, this law is already called lex Zdanowska. You simply want to regulate our lives casuistically and thus introduce this law, which is simply a highly unequal provision for all entitled to elections. There are other elements to this project. You completely ignore the position of the State Election Commission, and you do not want to take into account the conclusions of that committee. If you are already ordering electoral law, I would like to point out the question raised by the electoral commission on several occasions, but also by the opposition Members, the question of the X-sign, so that this should not be wrong in the election. I'm afraid you're not doing that. You take the electoral law very instrumentally, strictly politically. Hence the Poselski Club Modern requests that this bill be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u147	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Porwich, WiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle regarding the proposed bill amending the electoral code law is positive, but in order to optimise these good records, we will allow ourselves to make an amendment at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u149	Thank you. Now, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One might ask why and why there are new changes now. There are two issues that my colleagues spoke about before, but I'll do it again. The first point is to return to the establishment of one regional electoral commission. Question: "Why did you make such a hoax before so that there would be two committees so that it would be counted in one committee and the other in order to vote?" I don't know why all this mess. That's when you said you were doing this to ensure security and honesty. Maybe it would just be enough to announce this project today to say that you admit your mistake and go back to what happened. That's one thing. The second debatable thing. Of course, the point is that you've tightened the requirement to run for president and mayor. A person convicted by a final judgment of a court for intentional crimes or tax offences shall not be eligible, while in all other elections a person convicted by a final sentence of imprisonment for a deliberate offence prosecuted by a public prosecution or a deliberate tax offence may not be eligible. And at first glance, you could say, and it would seem that why should we allow the condemned to run for office, right? In fact, we should all agree, only that this law does not apply to Members, nor to Senators, nor to the councillors and elected from their group of district elders and marshals of the voivodship. You introduce in this article the principle that they are equal and equal. If you want to be a groom, you have to be clean, but if you want to be an envoy, you can have a sentence. And this is one of the dumbest ideas you've ever had about the electoral code and all the ideas you've been doing over the last two years. We'll be in favour of rejecting this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u151	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Szczerba has the floor. Are you an MP? You're an MP. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One can say: and we did not say because this project involves a return to one regional electoral commission, but all the time for incomprehensible reasons for us, except for the local elections, the most complicated ones, because much more complicated organizationally than elections to the European Parliament, the Seym, the Senate or the President... I would very much like to say that this situation with the two regional committees has caused a lot of confusion. It also caused - this is the result of the observation - that even in large cities these committees worked very often in the minimum legal composition of five people, and the shortage of members resulted, among others. Long lines to the urn. The question is: Why do designers not go back to the definition of X? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is also a request made by Mr Hermelinski. Isn't this a good time to get back to the last definition that everyone understood? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u154	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the changes introduced in this novel are the result of the observation, the experience of the State Election Commission. But when changes were made, just last year, they were due to a lack of imagination, because the electoral code is a specific law, a law of very high legislative diligence. If any change is made, without this imagination, then unfortunately it is changed forever. And here's the question: why didn't you actually use the Councils of the State Election Commission? In fact, it is a definition of X, because there was a different interpretation. Two. Why the protocol will continue to be provided by the bishop, or one of the members of the committee, rather than as in the 21st century. - with an electronic system? And three. Regulation of pre-campaign elements. And since you're not introducing two committees in this presidential election, the Sejm and the Senate, that's very good, because why continue the process of embarrassment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause that's what happened. in the last election. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u155	Thank you. There you go, Mr Artur Dunin. Is Mr Dunin here? [[I'm here.]] There it is. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The words of this speaker have already been said here. The bill was prepared as usual on the knee, but in fact it concerns the only person, President Hanna Zdanowska. The state is breaking the constitution again with this bill. Art. 3 you amend, add: For elections ordered before the date of entry into force of this Act, the provisions of the Act amended in Article shall apply. 1 in the current version. Combining this with Art. 492 and Article 492 492a clearly states that the state, well, Jacek Sasin will be the winner. He tried to come to Łódź and not let President Hanna Zdanowska take off, not let her take off. Today, according to this law, he will be able to do what the boaters and Łódźmen do not agree to, because Hanna Zdanowska has been chosen by the inhabitants of Łódź, and she has received 70% support. That's over 250,000. Voices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today this bill gives you the opportunity to destroy these opportunities, the effort of the Łódź people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You and the local government couldn't win in the fall elections in an honest fight, so what's Law and Justice doing today? He's changing the electoral code to defeat President Hanna Zdanowska and defeat the Łódźman. You're making a change - it's lex Zdanowska - but why? Because you want to put out her ticket? The mandate of President Lodz comes from a direct choice made by the Łódźman. They prefer over 200,000. Łódźman Hanna Zdanowska became president again. You can't beat her in the election. You're afraid of her, you're afraid of the trust the Łódź give her. The proposed changes do not include the functions of councillors, Members, Senators. If this change comes into force in its current form, it will be possible to be President of Poland... I ask: Will Hanna Zdanowska be able to hold her office until the end of her term of office, or will you cancel it according to this amendment? Is the appeal application ready yet? Why do the rules enter into force from the day following the announcement and not from the new term of office? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you also change the Penal Code? Will you enter a record of the extension of the period required for the execution of the sentence? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u159	Thank you. I invite Mrs. Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Head of the PKW expressed his satisfaction with the draft law submitted, but stated that there were not enough requests made by the PKW. My question to the applicants: Do you intend to lean on the requests made by the PKW which have not been included in this law? It's about the definition of the X-sign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u161	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When, in previous years, during the sixth term of the Sejm, we worked on changes in electoral law and on the bans on candidateship, we started by reaching consensus in this Chamber. In 2009, we changed the constitution in such a way that it was possible to ban the candidacy of those sentenced to the Sejm, and only in 2010 did we introduce provisions which were uniform in respect of Members and Local Government. We did it fully consciously, we did it with full acceptance of this Hall. Let me remind you that the 2010 electoral code was adopted unanimously. In the meantime, you're creating rules for specific people. This is a very bad legislative standard, if you can say so. But your legislative standard is also reflected in the fact that you want to adopt this law today, in one day. I would also like to ask the honourable Member, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you introducing a provision that says that this law enters into force the day after the date of the announcement. According to Polish standard law is a 14-day vacathio legis, and it is possible to leave this principle only for legitimate reasons. Member, what are these reasons? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments proposed in the parliamentary proposal are absolutely without prejudice to the Constitution. These are amendments to the amendments, which include 32 out of 517 articles. These are not amendments which would be relevant within the meaning of the case law of the Constitutional Court, so that this is not an infringement of this six-month period, it is a matter of silence. I have a question for your applicant's representative about the article. 432 § Two electoral codes. Couldn't the Supreme Court have brought further action against the ruling of the PKW? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u165	Mrs Margaret Navel. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill under review is a whip on the insubordinate presidents, mayors, mayors. Under the cover of minor changes, you want to prepare a tool for the services and prosecution to eliminate uncomfortable self-governments by taking away their passive electoral rights. The loss of this right is even foreseen in the case of a conviction by a final judgment of the court for a deliberate offence of prosecution of a public charge or a deliberate tax offence, not just a sentence of imprisonment, as has been the case so far. And that's the main purpose of this bill. I would also like to ask and draw attention to the fact that NGOs can and have the opportunity to submit their candidates to the committee. Is that possible? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u167	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The electoral law is a very important law, but for the second time it is not a government project, it is thoughtful and consulted, and it is a parliamentary project, a rapid process, in principle at one sitting of the Sejm. I'm asking you, why? Why do we use such shortcuts with such important laws? Secondly, I wanted to ask whether the applicants have constitutionalist opinions on the compatibility of these procedures with the Constitution. Whenever there are doubts about whether the bill is constitutional, there is the opinion of constitutionalists. In this case, why didn't the applicants supply us with it, or at least I didn't get that opinion? And last but not least, double standards on the law of election of the mayors, mayors and presidents. Is that right and why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u169	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Again, I repeat the question of the provisions on the addition of those provisions on the absence of a right of choice in the case of a person convicted by a final judgment of a court for a deliberate offence prosecuted by a public prosecution or a deliberate tax offence. And a simple, specific question. Please tell me whether a traffic offence with low harm and, as a result, a final sentence on a fine will also be a pretext to prevent the running of the mayor and the president. I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u171	Thank you. I invite Mr Simon Ziółkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question will also apply to these double standards. Why should the higher standard of morality in accordance with this bill apply to mayors or mayors, not to the president of our country? Why is it more difficult to become mayor or mayor under this law than President of the Republic of Poland? The second case, which also relates to this law, is a declaration of non-punishment. Why, all the time, parliamentarians, candidates elected in elections must only submit statements of non-punishment, and the teacher, coach or athlete who is applying for the so-called. The Olympic pension, do they have to present a court certificate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u173	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik. There's no envoy? There it is. Come on in. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The codification of the electoral code makes sense, of course, because the recent municipal elections have shown that the new rules have had a positive effect. However, I would like to call for continued reform of the electoral system. The issue of accountability and verification of the creation of the electoral census remains unresolved, and there is still no possibility for citizens to exercise universal control, even through webcam monitoring. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u175	Thank you, sir. And I invite you to ask Ms Magdalena Ewa Marek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u176	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Changes made to the electoral code, i.e. the prohibition of running for mayor, president and uncle for those convicted by a final judgment of the court for a deliberate criminal offence prosecuted by public prosecution or a deliberate tax offence for any penalty, is discriminatory, as it concerns only the wojews, mayors and presidents. There are no local councilmen present - municipal, district or voivodeship level. This also does not apply to candidates for Members and Senators. These are double standards. I would still be tempted to introduce the same rules that apply to people who have a significant position, who have high political and economic functions. I also have a question for you about the institution of blackout. If a person has been convicted, punished and convicted, can he run? And why is the project unconstitutional? Why are you making major changes six months before the election? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The electoral code? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u177	Thank you, Member. And I invite Mr Józef Lassota to ask you another question, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u178	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was just wondering why these questions are asked why this amendment, which actually introduces chaos, introduces these double standards. These three years of leadership by the PiS show that it usually concerns either the fact that, truth, somehow the opposition, or the need to save itself. It is rare that the projects that PiS presents serve the common good, and how it serves the common interests of the PiS activities, shows the Kaczyński tapes scandal. I wanted to ask the Member of the applicant's representative: What really is the reason why you are presenting a project that actually differentiates candidates for Members and candidates for mayors or mayors? Are you afraid that next election you'll have so much on your conscience that you won't be able to run at all? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u179	Thank you. And I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to ask you another question, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before the municipal elections, you changed the electoral code. You thought these changes would help you win. So what? Unfortunately, it didn't work, you lost. So now you're trying to get those people who won fair elections to be supported by thousands of people, for example in Łódź, to put out a ticket. I can honestly say that you could have expected this from you, so it didn't surprise me, but it surprised me that this is another parliamentary project, on which there is no more than a very general opinion of BAS, such as the position of the State Election Commission. It could refer to those provisions that you introduced a few months ago that didn't work out. It just seems like logic would tell you to do it, but what do you do when you lack that logic? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u181	Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice, will ask the last question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to have an extremely bad will or, of course, not know the law to claim that the provisions we propose apply to the wojews, mayors, presidents who are currently acting as the mayor, mayor, president. [[Art. 3, Article 3.]] It is clear that passive electoral law is being examined at the time of candidacy and candidacy, so it is clear that this circumstance of the current grooms, the presidents will not be affected. Ladies and gentlemen! If the State cannot read this from this law, it is possible to clarify these provisions. We're gonna make an amendment like that... [[What is this - art. Three?]] ...which will clarify that. But today's legislation points to this: surely to the present wojews, the presidents, this amendment does not apply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u183	Thank you. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[In 2011...]] Mr... Please answer this question and the previous questions of the applicant's representative Anna April. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would briefly like to say and reassure you that this project is not intended to violate any standards or violations of the Constitution. I would like to assure you and reassure you - if you think that Mrs Zdanowska could lose her position as President through this law, I am ready to make an amendment that will absolutely calm both you and the President. That's not what this project is about, this revision. We listen to the voice of the State Election Commission and the National Election Office and simply want to improve the elections. That's why this project was created. That's one thing. Secondly, you say that we differentiate and at the same time apply to reject this project. You don't want to discuss it. You say you want to talk, and you've already filed a motion for rejection here. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't even give a chance to talk on a committee that would take care of this project. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll just remind you that this project, this amendment to the article. 11 introduces and harmonises requirements for candidates for voytes, mayors and presidents in line with the regulations of the Local Government Act. Please note that with regard to self-government, these are high requirements, and that with regard to those who supervise their work, which are responsible for their work, these requirements are already much smaller. I would like to remind you that in Polish legislation in relation to competitions such as police officer, judge, detective, bailiff, teacher, prosecutor, security officer, tax controller, notary, tour pilot, insurance agent, local government employee are required for non-penalty. So, ladies and gentlemen, even if you claim that there should be the same requirement with regard to the legislative authority, maybe we should try to discuss in committee, let us not reject at the outset the draft proposed by us, by a group of Members, at this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the House will still allow us to proceed with this bill. A number of technical questions will be answered directly on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u185	Thank you, Member. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 23 hours 14 min 27]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors Convention, the Sejm Bureau submitted a proposal for amendments to the membership of the Sejm Committee, print No 3187. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats because we will vote. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Changes in the membership of the Sejm committee (print No 3187). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for these amendments. Would any of you like to speak? I can't see, I can't hear. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 3187, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 369 Members voted. The vote was 368, against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Sejm committee. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the electoral code law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for consideration of draft electoral laws for consideration. We're voting. Who of your Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of Draft Print Act No 3163, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. Za - 156, against - 236, 1 Member abstained. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has rejected the application and has therefore sent this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for consideration. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at this sitting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 30 hours 14 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission on the Government's draft law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws (prints Nos 3116 and 3156). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] And I ask your Members either to listen to Mrs Barbara Dziuk or to leave the plenary room if you do not want to take part in the discussion of this point and to discuss the discussions in the roundabouts. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] High Izbo! I hereby submit a report to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws, print No 3156. First of all, I would like to briefly signal the importance and importance of this project. The need to amend the telecoms law is directly linked to the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission in 2016 concerning the incorrect application of Directive 2002/20/EC on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services, as well as the incorrect application of Directive 2002/21/EC on the common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services - namely the Framework Directive - and Directive 2002/77/EC on competition in the markets for electronic communications networks and services, as well as the incorrect transposition of the Directive on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services. The European Commission has pointed out that there is no correct transposition of Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Authorisation Directive as regards the obligation to consult planned changes to frequency bookings and raised reservations on the rules governing the conduct of auctions and tenders. The doubts relate in particular to the non-binding nature of the tenders submitted during the auction, the lack of financial consequences of withdrawal from the reservation or the insufficient amount of the security. Imperfections in the auction procedure identified by the European Commission were directly translated into the course of Poland's only 800 MHz auction in 2015. The main objective of the amendment is therefore to improve the rules governing selective treatment for frequency booking and thus avoid imposing very high penalties on Poland for continuing to maintain the incorrect transposition into Polish law. Of course, the project also introduces some important changes, so that the rare good, such as radio frequencies, is distributed in Poland and used as efficiently as possible. Among the extremely necessary tools and mechanisms introduced by the project, enabling efficient frequency management in Poland, it should be possible, for example, to define the timing of the distribution of individual frequencies, to conduct selection procedures for busy frequencies, so that the new entity can start using them immediately on the date of their release, or to enable the President of UKE to convert the use of frequencies to other frequencies with similar characteristics. Therefore, the comprehensive proposals envisaged in the project will help to organise spectrum in a given band and will allow for example. to make the necessary changes to change the use of the 700 MHz band for wireless services or the allocation of frequencies for the 5G network. In addition, the draft contains regulations adapting national provisions to those resulting from the Union regulatory directives, namely Directive 2014/53EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment and repealing Directive 1999/5EC. High Izbo! The Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, to which this project was addressed for consideration, addressed it at its meeting on 17 January 2019. The Commission has carefully examined the draft law by adopting several technical and legislative amendments tabled by the Legislative Office. The Commission also accepted one corrective amendment, tabled by the Legislative Office, concerning a transitional provision concerning the time limit for examining the application for inclusion of a device in the register of radio equipment used without authorisation. High Izbo! Given the key importance of the project for the further development of the telecommunications market and new technologies, the committee recommends that the report be adopted in accordance with the submission. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u187	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Krzysztof Kubow to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u188	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club as regards the government draft law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws, print No 3116. This is an extremely important bill because developing telecommunications is one of the basic pillars of a well-growing economy. The amendment of the Law of 16 July 2004 concerns provisions on frequency management, radio equipment and frequency charges. The new rules adapt the Polish right to regulation of the European Union. The changes are also linked to the need to increase the efficiency of radio spectrum management and, in particular, to ensure an increased interest in the deployment of new technologies on the telecommunications market. One of the most important changes proposed is the provisions that allow the 700 MHz band to be re-routed or the frequency reservation procedure to be improved. The revision allows the Minister of Digitalisation to define a timetable for the allocation of certain spectrum resources so that State policy on spectrum management can be implemented. At the same time, the amendment proposed to modify the rules for the award of frequency reservations for the next period, including in particular the introduction of an additional condition for the President of the Office for Electronic Communications to refuse such an extension, and to allow the President of UKE to announce on its own initiative a tender, auction or competition for the reservation of frequencies not only if he has knowledge of the interest in frequency resources that are already available. It also enabled the UKE President, by decision, to change the allocated frequency bookings in order to ensure the governance of the frequency management and to increase the efficiency of the frequencies used. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the bill goes in a good, expected direction. The proposed solutions are intended to promote socio-economic development, which is essential for legislative changes. The bill presented responds to the expectations of the social side, hence many positive opinions concerning this matter. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask the High House to adopt this bill while at the same time submitting one amendment on behalf of my club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u189	Thank you, sir. To speak on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I ask Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u190	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as the scope of the draft law on amending the telecoms law is concerned, of course, it is a lot of substantive issues, but at the last meeting of the Digital Commission we talked about very specific issues, so I would not like to talk again about what is the main purpose of the law, which is related to it, but I just want to talk about things that raise some controversy, where the question marks appear. We would like these matters to be put in a slightly different way, in line with what the social side represents. First of all, I would like to say that after this detailed presentation of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club Act - the Civic Coalition has prepared four amendments on four important issues that emerged during the public consultation. I'd like to present them now. Namely, the first issue, the draft law contains provisions which give the possibility to define by regulation a timetable for the distribution of specific frequency resources. Such competences will be given to the Minister of Digitization according to this project. This met with strong opposition from the social side, above all from the Office for Electronic Communications, where it was named as an input to the telecoms law during the committee's meeting. And it was transmitted directly through representatives of the Office of Electronic Communications, who indicated that the Ministry of Digitalization is trying to limit UKE's independence as a regulator. I would like to point out that these provisions, which are here, may constitute a breach of the Directive on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services. Let me just remind you that, of course, there is a need in the current law and in this directive to ensure the independence of regulatory authorities, and all the more so it is worth noting that there is no obligation to cooperate with the Office for Electronic Communications in this project, so the Ministry would really like to take over this competence, which we believe should not be the case, so we are proposing to delete this point. The second amendment also responds to the proposals presented in the public consultation. Namely, it is now assumed that the date on which the application for renewal is to be submitted is no earlier than 3 years and no later than 2 years after the end of the reservation. We propose that these provisions be amended in order to provide for appropriate time limits for this application to be submitted no earlier than 4 years before the end of the period of validity of the right to have these frequencies available and no later than one year before the expiry date. So that's the second point, the second amendment. The third amendment complements the existing provision on the registration of equipment by indicating that not only the owner of the reservation can request entry in the register but also the entity authorised by it. And that would be appropriate and similar to the issues that are related to other radio devices. This is the third amendment. And the fourth amendment is also very... Maybe I'll put it another way. A major discussion during the committee meeting also triggered a provision of a law which assumes that in an area of 0.5 km in diameter around the measuring devices of the Office of Electronic Communications no other radio equipment can be set up and that it will not be possible to issue permissions to set such devices in this area, which may also indicate that in the age of the challenge of the 5G Internet, which we are facing, in large cities where there are measuring devices, the so-called. white spots. Therefore, it should be noted that under the current compaction of radio equipment, monitoring tasks or checking and measuring emission sources can be effectively carried out using mobile measuring stations, and we therefore believe that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this provision should not be concluded. Therefore, and with the opinion that I have presented, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition I am placing four amendments to this bill on your hands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u191	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Maciej Masłowski, who will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we are, of course, discussing an important project. I have the honour to present a position regarding the draft telecoms law and certain other laws. And, as the rapporteur said, this is an extremely important law, so from the point of view of Kukiz,15 and the need for this legislation, we would vote in favour of this legislation. However, it is difficult for us to vote, and it is difficult for us to support this law if we have so many ambiguities, which my colleague, Mr Marchewka, has just mentioned, and it would be a shame to duplicate here. However, I still allow the fact that there are irregularities, but the High Chamber, the entire Sejm, is in order to resolve these doubts possible. And unfortunately, there was no chance of that, because it was tragic - otherwise it was not called - that your vice-president was holding the last meeting of the committee, which was taking the floor of the director of the Office of Electronic Communications, who wanted to explain, who said that she needed two minutes to explain all these issues to us. On the other hand, he said that no, I quote: you speak for a very long time, thank you for your speech. That was just said to the director of the Electronic Communications Office. That is why we will be watching if you support the amendments. I don't think so. That's why I'm telling you right away: don't count on us laying hands on the kind of law you're trying to bring in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u193	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, who will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u194	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the first reading, our club took the position I presented when discussing the government's telecom law project to continue work on these records. I hoped that we could get information, clarify certain issues and doubts. As my previous speakers have already mentioned, a little reality and work in committee have missed our expectations. I believe, however, that we should ask for further information from the Ministry and return to the explanation, to the attempt to reply to the distressing and disquieting Members, so that the final wording, which will be adopted after the votes and included in the text of the Act, does not raise any doubts, nor does it cause controversy among us, Members. After all, it has already been discussed and indicated the thematic scope, the scope of the changes, which is proposed in these records. It is very important. Our club is in the position that we should address this issue, that we should respond to the changes that are being brought through time and need, that we should at the same time make the regulations to which we are obliged by the European Union's laws. For this, however, we need a little patience, goodwill and the belief that opposition Members are not stubborn, they are not just looking for a proverbial hole in all the records, that they are also working to create good records and good law. Many times we have seen that life brings other solutions. Most adopt certain records that need to be updated, changed soon. So that we will continue to look, to look forward to clarifying certain issues, while we will take a position in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u195	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will speak on behalf of the club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the telecoms law and some other laws following the presentation of the report of the committee, prints 3116 and 3156. High Izbo! This draft law aims to bring our right into line with European directives. It goes on, among other things. for the correct implementation of the European rules which are necessary as a result of the initiation of an infringement procedure concerning the implementation so far. At the same time, the government proposes in this amendment some provisions to allow for the introduction of governance in the spectrum economy. In some ways, they meet social expectations. I must say that the bill is of course extremely important, because in the background of this project we are dealing with the development of smart networks, networks in 5G standard. In general, it is about ensuring the correct implementation of future technologies. We all know that in today's competitive economy, which is based on electronic information exchange, this development is extremely desirable. Therefore, the legal environment which the High House creates must also be of the highest quality. From this point of view, I must say that our doubts that we raised at first reading were not resolved during the committee meeting. This is so bad that in the context of this project, as I mentioned, we are dealing with the development of smart networks which have a very strong impact on things that affect our economy very much. What is it? I have to talk about the distribution of certain frequency resources. Clearly, we're dealing with a situation where the government is trying to take over. It will have very important consequences without fully realizing what will happen, which will result from such and not from any other empowerment of this area. We agree with the Office's argument that leaving these competences to the Office is the best possible solution. I must say that during the committee meeting, the government did not explain why it made such a decision, not another decision on the legal solution. I also agree with the social side when it comes to competitiveness. We are dealing with a draft law that in practice eliminates the fee for the increase in frequency values in case of a change of booking. In this extremely competitive market, there may be a situation where, as a result of an increase in this value, one operator will have lower operating costs without a charge. We all know that in such a highly sensitive market, which is the Polish market, in terms of price issues, every advantage resulting from the law immediately creates an extremely important impulse to disrupt this fair competition. That is why I am addressing the Minister to address this issue. It cannot be that of companies that operate in a competitive market, one is privileged, and the other has to deal with conditions, I would say, normal. This is not the right approach to creating an appropriate legal environment for the functioning of the economy. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is a limitation on radio permits in terms of a radius of 0.5 km around the control and measurement devices. Here, however, we are dealing with a situation - this is what I mentioned at first reading and the Minister probably remembers - which most often concerns very large agglomerations, very large cities, where there are several hundred thousand people living, where, therefore, many such devices are needed to ensure adequate coverage of the signal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you introduce such a ban now, it will turn out that Poles will not be able to use these speeds to the right extent, which will, of course, make it difficult to operate in the economy. Therefore, at this point in time, I would like to ask you to return to these issues at the committee meeting. We will see what we can do with this, depending on what amendments will be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u197	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Majka will also speak on this point. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u198	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, As far as 5G technology is concerned, I admit I don't know anything about it. I don't need to know everything, just like some people who think they know everything. [[I don't know who I am, but I'm gonna say it.]] On January 13th, I submitted a discussion on this matter to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I have recalled here the position of the Council of Europe of 2011, resolution 1815, which states: All reasonable steps must be taken to reduce exposure to electromagnetic fields, mainly radio frequencies emitted by mobile phones, especially in the case of children, young people most at risk of brain cancer. In 2016, the European Academy of EUROPAEM stated: There is strong evidence that long-term exposure to electromagnetic fields can result in an increase in cancer, Alzheimer's and infertility. More often, however, we deal with symptoms of hypersensitivity to EMF - I don't know, I don't know about this - such as others. headaches, difficulty concentrating, sleep problems, depression, lack of energy, fatigue and flu-like symptoms. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that on 13 September 2017 more than 180 scientists and doctors from 36 countries signed an appeal in which they demanded the suspension of 5G technology in Europe. My interpellation was about this particular problem. The idea was for Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to order research in the form of scientific studies on the introduction of 5G technology in the Polish state. Did Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki become acquainted with and informed the President of the Republic of Poland Dr. Andrzej Duda about the planned implementation of 5G technology in Poland and about the impact of this technology on the life and health of Poles and Poles, bearing in mind the quote from the position of the Council of Europe in 2011 expressed in resolution 1815? In the third question I ask Mr Mateusz Morawiecki: Did the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland get a full knowledge of the appeal of 13 September 2017 of more than 180 scientists and doctors from 36 countries who demanded the suspension of 5G technology in Europe, and what is the Prime Minister's position on this matter? Fourth, last question: Does Mr Mateusz Morawiecki personally take responsibility for the possibility of using 5G technology in the Polish state as regards the implementation of the current law, note: print no.1066, against the Polish nation, and in particular for the biological consequences of the use of this technology in the case of the Polish and Polish population? Ladies and gentlemen! This may seem strange, but it is possible from what I have read and what I have learned. I don't know anything about it, so I questioned it. I would like my constituents, Poles, to be able to read such expertise, with a scientific report, so that Poles simply know what will be implemented in the Polish country. Finally, I would like to say that my amazement is the obstruction which happened to me by submitting this interpellation to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki from one of the journalists of Rzeczpospolita, Mr. Wiktor Ferfecki, who even combined 5G technology with the April Constitution of 1935. Hands fall off. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u199	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members still like to join the list of people who want to ask a question about this point? I can't see. So I close the list. We begin with the question of Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, is it true, as the Sejm Analysis Office has said, that the draft of this law greatly reduces legal certainty in the exercise of rights to frequency by introducing new titles for reversing, amending, refusing to grant reservations for a further period and the possibility for the President of the Office of Electronic Communications to make a compulsory exchange of frequency resources? Is it true that these changes may reduce the willingness of entrepreneurs to invest in wireless infrastructure? And is it true that the way in which certain powers of the President of the Office for Electronic Communications are determined to determine the conditions for participation in selection proceedings violates the EU's requirements regarding the objective and transparent nature of the criteria for the allocation of allowances? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u201	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! By 2020 so-called Internet traffic will be 30 times higher than in 2010 and forecasts show that by 2022, around 20 billion devices will be connected to the Internet in general. This means that we will have to prepare new solutions, operators will have to implement new technologies that will respond to the needs that will arise with the introduction of the Internet of Things. That is why I would like to ask the Minister to introduce a 5G development plan. By the middle of last year Poland, according to EU proposals, was to adopt such a plan. That's not what happened. Why didn't this happen and when will he be accepted? That's one thing. Secondly, what will the fifth generation network model look like? Do the ministry and the government consider such a concept, for example. the state operator was involved in the construction of the fifth network [[♪ The bell ♪]] A generation? Will the 700 MHz band be used for the state operator? I believe that, so far, those activities that took place when private operators were building their own networks in competition were a good solution. Then do you want to be a part of this, and is that even a good option? 'Cause I'm having second thoughts. about these kinds of solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u203	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister doesn't have to answer... [[The rapporteur must.]] ...there's no plan, although it was supposed to be a year ago, because of course it has to be. But that's the problem. This bill... Besides, your office, the Office for Electronic Communications, has not left dry thread on those records that eliminate the possibility of acting in favour of the market, competitiveness and interests of citizens, i.e. lower prices. Was the auction on the band that created the possibility of getting a high-speed Internet a mistake? No, it has been beneficial to all users, prices are lower, availability is greater, moreover, the revenue to the budget is huge. This was confirmed by Marek Zagórski in response to the interpellation. But does the possibility of creating a telecommunications monopoly on the 700 band preclude it? Of course, it doesn't rule out, it can't rule out. And you want those decisions in your hand. The question is: What law firm wrote such clues? Isn't this some new Zdzisław's plan for the entity X or Y indicated by the administration to build a monopoly? [[♪ The bell ♪]] on a band of great sensitivity, of great weight and above all enabling real civilization development in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u205	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask once again: How does the proposed project protect small players, especially those operating on the radio market, in competition for frequency with large companies? Whether the proposed rules relating to the fee for applications for frequency reservation can at the same time fulfil the role of limiting applications by companies with serious financial resources without the risk of limiting such possibility e.g. start-ups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u207	Thank you. I invite Mr Antoni Mężydła, who will ask another question at this point in the session of the Sejm. [[Antek, national operator.]] [[I'll commend you tonight.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that the shortcomings of this law and all the shortcomings that have been raised here are due to one thing - the government has failed to implement the 5G development strategy. If there was a whole 5G strategy, you wouldn't have to leave behind these extraordinary tools that the government wants to have, which is to do as far as frequency allocation is concerned, the Energy Regulatory Office, because the government can legally, legislation, legislatively force the regulator to do exactly what the Minister wants. Here is an example of Minister Halicki. I don't agree with him. I think that... [[But you got off on the right foot.]] ...his last bill should be otherwise resolved. I'm not happy with the money, I'd rather have a wide range. On the other hand, Minister, yesterday I learned that the Prime Minister is in favour of 5G not because of why I fought. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - It's about LTE Advanced - just because he's afraid of populists who are talking about the electromagnetic field, and he wants to set as little cell phone base stations as possible. I don't agree with that. Not at all. And just like my friends, they were outraged... I've thought so far... If I hadn't read yesterday's article, I'd think it was because he wanted to create...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u209	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u210	...as wide as the Internet, so that the Internet of Things and Artificial Intelligence can work. [[Applause]] [[Anthony, almost perfect, almost perfect.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u211	I invite you to the speaker of Barbara Bubula, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask about the costs of this project, which concerns the transfer of terrestrial television to new frequencies below 700 MHz. I know that an amendment was made by the Law and Justice Club saying that the possible costs of this project would be borne by Emitel. However, I have doubts as to whether and how to secure television broadcasters, including public television, Television Trwam and all other terrestrial multiplexes, before Emitel's transfer to them these costs in civil law contracts which are concluded on a free market basis. Isn't it better to introduce a provision to cover the costs of the entire project, which is supposed to amount to as much as PLN 80 million, by the State Treasury, which will benefit the state budget by selling or leasing frequencies with new bands released under 5G? Well, in that case, wouldn't it be better if it was? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did the state budget cover these costs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u213	Thank you, Member. I will ask the Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitization for an answer to this and for previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u214	Dear Members, Dear Messengers, Dear Members, First of all, I would like to start with the theme of the timetable, which has already been raised several times and in committee, and during today's sitting. I have referred on several occasions to the allegations you have made, I have referred to them in substance, and I have the impression that I have not once heard my answers from you and taken into account, which is a clear signal to me that your comments are not of a substantive nature, they are merely political Tromtadration, and that is why they are being raised all the time. [[Applause]] But... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...I'll resume the schedule. The provisions on the timetable that we have introduced, which we proposed in the revision of the telecoms law, are primarily intended to close down the system that operates in Poland today. This country - Poland as a Member State, the Government of the Republic of Poland - is responsible to the European Union for fulfilling the obligations of the Polish State regarding the deadlines for distribution and allocation of bands for specific activities. On the other hand, the government does not have any tools that would allow it to comply with these obligations. The President of the Office for Electronic Communications has these tools. The proposed timetable is intended only to close this system and to ensure that the government can effectively enforce compliance with EU commitments from the regulator. I wanted to emphasise here the fact that this is not a breach. Today in the article. Article 189 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Telecommunications law is explicitly stated that both the President of UKE and the Government are regulatory bodies. Moreover, the proposed amendment is part of the current legal order, because it is already in the article today. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 It is pointed out that the National Board of Frequencies is defined by the Council of Ministers, and that the President of the Office of Electronic Communications is an entity which is obliged to carry out what is specified in the National Board of Frequency Purposes, these obligations. The introduction of the schedule shall in no way affect the competence of the telecoms regulator in the distribution of frequency bands and its exclusive competence in this area. Only the President of UKE shall continue to be the authority empowered to prepare proceedings in this field, to conduct selection, assignment, withdrawal and frequency booking procedures. In addition, the draft amendment extends its competences e.g. the possibility of announcing selection proceedings on resources which will only be available in the future. I stress: the timetable does not agree with the principle of the regulator's independence, it is not an instructional one, and the Minister is limited in law when setting it - he issues a timetable in the form of a regulation, the regulation is consulted, it must comply with the radio-communication rules, with the policy and coordination of radio spectrum set out in the multiannual Union programmes. Therefore, it cannot be alleged that they agree with the independence of the regulator. We reviewed these proposals, consulted them with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and consulted them on a work basis with the European Commission. There's no doubt about that here. And I've already told you at least three times. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the proposed timetable takes into account your needs for implementation, the development of 5G technology in Poland. It is this schedule in comparison with the amended law today, with the so-called. With a mega-law, a law to support the development of services and telecommunications networks, it will provide tools for this technology to exist in Poland. The timetable will set a deadline for the distribution of bands, which will be a clear signal for the telecommunications market, which today does not exist, because, as you have noticed, there is a strategy, and if you open the text of the strategy, the strategies that are prepared at national level also in other countries, you will see that in these strategies there is nowhere as detailed information about the deadlines that we want to propose in the timetable. And this is actually the most important information for the market. And this is actually a 5G implementation plan. It is this law that gives us tools to show how and when we plan to implement this new technology. I'm moving on to the other questions. There were concerns raised by Mr Pyzik about the impact the proposed solutions have on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that the Polish telecommunications market is a market which is one of the most competitive markets in Europe. We have four mobile operators, we have some of the lowest prices in Europe, but this is of course a very demanding, very expensive activity and it is not an activity for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is necessary to provide mobile services throughout the country, such business case seems most purposeful. It is therefore a tool not to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but to provide services of a critical nature for all citizens today. With regard to the position of Mr Man, I would like to point out that sometimes it is not worth getting attached to what is read in the newspapers. I have even read this article and I have not found the passages that you spoke about, which means that we have probably interpreted it differently. The essence, the idea, the aim of the minister of digitalisation is to ensure the best possible mobile and stationary communications for all citizens of our country and throughout our country, to the extent possible. This is also confirmed by the current revision of the megamarket. With regard to Mrs Bubula's question on refarming, which is planned for 2020 today in line with the national spectrum action plan, I would like to point out that this national action plan will be updated within the next two weeks, as we have asked the European Commission to give us its consent to the derogation on the change of the 700 MHz band. We plan to indicate that the destination of this band will change in 2022. At the same time, we want to coordinate this process with changing the standard of transmission from DVB-T to DVB-T2. As far as costs are concerned, because the Member asked about costs, they are certainly affected by the time the multiplex operator has to prepare for migration. We have an analysis of the Communications Institute and KPMG, which says that these costs are negligible, related only to the reconfiguration. I understand that in a situation where there is little time, it changes and these costs are increasing, while it seems that due to the planned derogation these costs will be as small as originally planned. We believe that these costs should under no circumstances be borne by television broadcasters, whatever they may be. In this respect, we agree with the Member. I think I answered all the questions. Mr Bańkowski asked if we were actually extending the powers of the President of UKE by this law. Yes, this law extends the powers of the President of UKE, because that is exactly what this law aims to do. The idea is to give the UKE President the opportunity to sort out the bands that, under international agreements, must be used for other technologies. That is the essence of this law, as has already been said several times today. So much for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u215	Thank you. After this speech, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Information from the government regarding doubts surrounding the investigation into the murder of President Paweł Adamowicz and the functioning of the prison and justice system. I ask the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebra, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the time of this meeting, during which I am to present to you a number of information which is relevant both to the public and to the State, is limited, let me concentrate at this point on the presentation of the facts which appear to be crucial in this case. In order to speed up this relationship and to be as abundant as possible with facts, I will concentrate on reading the document, because such a form of relationship seems faster than an oral report. I understand that our subsequent debate will be a two-stage debate and it will be an opportunity to respond to any questions you may have. Then the formula of my answer will be different. High Izbo! I'll start from the beginning, perhaps, by contacting Mr. Stefan W., suspected of a terrible crime, with the realm of justice. That person was sentenced by the judgment of the District Court in Gdansk of 29 May 2014 to a total sentence of 5 years and 6 months of imprisonment for four crimes committed between 8 May 2013 and 12 June 2013, which were classified as basic and qualified as a crime in connection with the loss suffered by persons who worked in these financial institutions. In three cases, he committed an assault on the SKOK subsidiary, including SKOK Stefczyk. In one case, it was a subsidiary of Crédit Agricole's bank, as I recall. I am not going to describe to you the details of the charges and the later operative part of the court in which criminal liability is attributed to the perpetrator for these crimes. It seems important in all this information that, according to psychiatrists who were investigating the defendant at that time at the stage of the trial, at an incriminal time and in relation to the alleged acts, he had neither abolished nor significantly reduced his ability to recognise the significance of the acts and to direct his conduct. In other words, he was considered by psychiatrists to be a full-blown person in the course of the crimes he was charged with. The opinion also does not indicate the need to apply to it, which is a natural consequence of its content, a protective measure in the form of a stay in a mental institution. The legal situation which concerned the execution of the sentence of imprisonment by the above mentioned. This was the case between 12 June 2013 and 8 December 2018. Stefan W. was sentenced in full to 5 years and 6 months of imprisonment against the judgment of the District Court in Gdansk. He was sentenced to penitentiary isolation since 14 June, when he was brought to Gdansk detention. He remained in that unit until 1 September 2014. In the period from 1 September 2014 to 1 October 2014, he stayed at the Sztum Penitentiary. From 1 October 2014 until 26 May 2015, he was again in the Detective's custody in Gdansk. In turn, from 26 May 2015 to 23 February 2016 he stayed at the Malbork Penitentiary. On 23 February 2016, he was transported to Szczecin, where he was present until 13 April 2016. From 14 April 2016 to 31 August 2016 he was in the Malbork Penalty Facility, while from 31 August 2016 to 13 October 2016 he was in the Bydgoszcz Detachment. He was once again transported to the Malbork Penitentiary on 13 October 2016, where he was resident until 31 August 2017. On 31 August 2017, he was transferred from the Malbork Penitentiary and on 30 August 2017 he was assigned a classification sub-group of P-2/p, which was the first one to be punished - a semi-open penalty facility, a programmed impact system. In the Penalty Department in Gdansk-Merchment he stayed, as I mentioned, until 8 December 2018, when the sentence of imprisonment was ended. There are a number of data related to his condition here, but these details will still appear in the further part of the paper, so I will skip them at the moment. On the other hand, I will move on to the discussion of the posture established on the basis of data from the prisons, all those in which he was resident, in which he was imprisoned. After having been sentenced to an investigation in Gdansk by 21 June 2013 to 14 May 2015, he was classified as requiring detention in a designated unit or cell of an investigation or a prison of the type closed under conditions ensuring increased protection of the public and security of the detention or establishment due to the criminal offence committed. So the basis for such classification was the act he committed and for which he was convicted - these were some of the events I mentioned to you. In accordance with the Article. 76 § Point 1 (7) of the Criminal Code implementing the penitentiary committees reviewed the decision of 21 June 2013 to classify a convicted person as presenting a serious social risk or a serious threat to the security of the establishment at least once every three months. This has happened properly... here are the seven dates in which the sentence was submitted to these assessments. This concerns the behaviour of the sentenced person from 20 September 2013 to 14 May 2015, respectively. In the opinion of experts from the Ministry of Justice who have assessed the entire file and the duration of the stay, the behaviour of the sentenced person during his stay under the conditions of penitentiary isolation should be assessed as moderate or moderately positive. He was awarded once with a prize on 17 March 2016 for active participation in occupational therapy in order to motivate him to maintain the right posture, twice was granted to the convicted person. During his stay in prison, he was disciplined three times, mainly because of his failure to maintain proper order and cleanliness in the housing cell, and he did not maintain proper personal hygiene. He was last reprimanded on 14 September 2016. Incarcerated in relation to superiors, as is apparent from all documentation from the period of imprisonment, was regular. In the educational group he worked properly, he had a good relationship with the co-founders. By the way, here comes the nomenclature coming directly from the files of the individual prisons in which he was staying. There was no evidence of conflict with him. To the extent appropriate, he complied with the order of the dwelling cell, except for those incidents for which he was punished, he maintained the required level of personal hygiene and cleanliness at the place of accommodation. It has complied with the rules governing the execution of the prison sentence, including those in force in the unit of internal order. He was never granted a leave from a prison or, as I will say later, consent to a conditional early release despite three attempts on his part. This can undoubtedly be linked, especially in the period when he was already serving a term of imprisonment under a semi-open-type establishment, with a change in the policy made in this respect by the Ministry of Justice, because in relation to the previous state we reduced, when we took office, by half the amount of consent granted for conditional early release and for leave. This rigorous approach has also fundamentally changed the frequency of prisoners, especially those who have committed more serious crimes, the possibility of benefiting from the benefits provided by the Penal Code to those who no longer create problems and whose punishment ends. He wasn't interested in teaching. He has a basic education which is undocumented. Some procedural information shows that he was supposedly going to finish four primary school classes for a good cause, but these things are still being verified because the documentation is still being collected in the course of the proceedings. He was sentenced to imprisonment in a programmed impact system from 7 September 2016 until 22 February 2018. In view of the non-fulfilment of the programme, i.e. the lack of commitment on his part and the lack of willingness to participate in the program, the practice of replacing aggression, which was the lack of willingness to participate in the programme, justified the fact that he had never been aggressive in his life and did not express any consent to the further execution of the sentence of imprisonment in the programmed impact system, he was classified as a punishment in the ordinary system. On 29 October 2015, in connection with the implementation of the Social Readaptation Programme through historical education, entitled: The living memory of the condemned took part in a lecture on the Stutthof Museum in Sztutów. From 9 December 2016 to 16 March 2018, employed free of charge as a physical worker in the order of the penitentiary unit. He did not declare his belonging to informal structures of criminal subculture. The inmate did not attempt suicide before or under isolation conditions, and did not self-harm. Nor did he show aggressive or self-aggressive behavior. Direct coercion measures were therefore not applied to the inmate. External contact in the form of visions, correspondence, telephone conversations mainly kept with the closest family. The inmate had no specific interests. He took part in cultural and educational activities and sports activities on general principles, rarely, also without systematic reading of the press, from the information we obtained, it appears that mostly the Baltic daily. In the recent period of his life in prison, he also watched TV and TV programs available at the penitentiary. Stefan W. applied three times for conditional early release at his request, as I mentioned earlier, on 26 October 2016, 29 June 2017 and 11 June 2018, and each time he did not receive permission to object to the director of the penitentiary unit, who had given a proper negative opinion on his applications. As regards the state of health which I have already mentioned, after having brought the sentenced person to the Gdansk Criminal Arrest in the period from 21 June 2013 to 14 May 2015, he was classified as requiring detention in a designated unit or in a cell of an investigation or prison of the type closed for the reasons I have already mentioned. In May 2015, during his stay in the Detective's custody in Gdansk, the inmate's behavior began to gradually change. It was at that time that he was first admitted by a psychologist on 8 May 2015. His statements showed multifacetedness, digressivity, and bizarre content, as he concluded, according to documentation, a psychologist. He was therefore referred to a psychiatric consult on that day. From that moment on, he was also under the care of a psychiatrist. He was psychiatricly consulted on 13 May 2015, 10 June 2015, 8 July 2015. Each time, external specialists - psychiatrists - were consulted. As a result of the treatment, his behaviour stabilised. During his imprisonment in the Malbork Penalty Facility in January 2016, his behaviour changed significantly. Since this information has already been made public and concerns matters of great social importance, these facts, which are widely known, I would like to confirm: he began to hear voices - this is January 2016, this is due to the documentation kept by doctors and by the Prison Service - which commented on his behaviour, gave him instructions, had the impression that the Prison Service officers would withdraw time, thought he was a crown witness, actor, etc. Because of the apparent deterioration of his mental condition, he was consulted by a psychiatrist four times. Here are the dates of these consultations. Mostly it was an external consultation of psychiatrists who were asked by an outside penitentiary. Since it was not possible to obtain an improvement in mental status with the use of outpatient treatment, the inmate was assigned to the Department of Criminal Psychiatry of the Szczecin Detachment, where he was in the period from 23 February, as I said, until 13 April. During hospitalization, a mental illness was diagnosed that required intensive pharmacological treatment and therapy. After recovery in good mental condition, she was given to an outpatient treatment. He remained in good mental condition without acute psychotic symptoms. Repeatedly consulted - diagnosis: remission of the disease. Incarcerated until leaving Gdansk Penitentiary [[♪ The bell ♪]] remained in good mental condition, in remission, under constant medical and periodic psychological control. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Because of the vastness of matter...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u217	Minister, I'm sorry. Do you need more time to fill in?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u218	Yes, Your Marshal, because of the uniqueness of the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u219	I am therefore extending the time by 2 minutes so that Members can obtain full information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u220	Thank you very much. I will try to provide as detailed information as possible in connection with your numerous questions concerning details and facts which are particularly important, relevant and discussed in this regard. Hence my meticulousness in this relationship. But I will try to shorten the elements that I have in front of me. He remained in good mental condition, in remission, under constant medical supervision, periodically psychologically, until he left Gdansk Penitentiary. Because of the stable mental state, doctors did not make specific recommendations for further psychiatric treatment. During his stay in the penitentiary unit, the sentenced person did not exhibit aggressive or self-aggressive behaviours, here is already mentioned the latter unit, and there were no indications which, according to doctors, psychologists, as well as the Prison Service, the educators would signal any symptoms of violations in this case of mental health standards or signs of any problems that might indicate a deterioration of mental health. During the stay of Stefan W. under the conditions of penitentiary isolation, psychologists conducted a total of over 40, exactly 48 psychological conversations to control mental status. Care at the Penalty Centre in Gdańsk-Modyka, both medical and outpatient, was also involved in the consultation of a psychiatrist twice. Both studies assessed that the patient was in remission. More than 50 times at regular intervals has also been examined by the general physician in the infirmary. Due to stable state there was no indication of further consultation. During the visits, treatment was discussed with the patient, and treatment was proposed for the purpose of strengthening remission. Every time the patient categorically refused. As part of the review of the release from the prison, i.e. in Gdansk, the sentenced person was informed about the need to remain under the care of specialist doctors in connection with previously diagnosed diseases. In accordance with the Article. 168 § 3 and 4 of the Enforcement Code in the event of release from the prison of the sentenced person who was sentenced to imprisonment for a deliberate offence of more than 3 years of imprisonment, the director was obliged to inform the police and so it happened. The point is for the police to have knowledge of the dangerous criminals who are released, and to have them under control, and to encourage their actions. According to art. In accordance with the order of the Director-General of the Prison Service, 168 § 4 was notified on the City Police Command in Gdańsk by telefax dated 15 November 2018 of the release of the prisoner on 8 December 2018. Then, on 30 November 2018, a telegram from the Police Station III in Gdańsk, the Operational and Reconciliation Department, the Search and Identification Team came to Gdansk-Polish Penitentiary with a request to take possible and available actions under the responsibility of the Penitentiary, which may affect the plans and attitudes of the convicted person who is released. In view of the findings that Stefan W. makes verbal declarations in which he declares that he was wrongly sentenced to such a high sentence, because it wasn't a real weapon, it was a fake, and that when he gets out of prison, he's just gonna rob a real gun, take a machete and go to Warsaw and do a robbery there or use that fake weapon he has at his disposal in prison. In connection with the information received, the educator and psychologist, within the formal competence of the Prison Service representatives, held interviews with the sentenced person. In addition, cellmates were questioned, and conversations were held with those who dealt with the prisoner. In response to this letter, the police station in Gdansk was informed of the results of the conversation and the arrangements made. They showed that Stefan W. did not declare any aggressive or criminal actions, his intention to commit a crime, nor did he show any desire to share his plans with the Prison Service representatives, and in general showed a bitterness about harming the court's judgment. He declared his reluctance to the apparatus of justice, therefore also to the judiciary, and identified the sense of harm with the political formation at that time, the Civic Platform. In the conversation he admitted that he had brothers, there are various other details that are related to his relationship. In any case, this content of the account, written by the educator, was then sent to the police station. On 7 December, a final discussion was held with the prisoner in connection with the end of the penalty, which took place on 8 December 2018. Stefan W. was instructed about the consequences of his return to the crime and the possibility of getting help. Convicted in the course of the conversation, he stated that he did not intend to return to his place of residence and could not specify the current address. He also refused any help. He was going to function as a homeless man and move around the country, to say the least. With regard to the supervisory activities of the penitentiary supervision by the Penitentiary Judges, it is worth noting that the convicted Stefan W. was twice the subject of the court's judgment, by a judge who examined the proceedings with the Prison Service and carried out assessments. Each time this assessment from the court, from the judge of the mirror, the judge of the visitator to the prison cases was positive for the prison service. Any measures taken against an inmate have been assessed as appropriate. The judges did not make any comments in either case. This applies both to the vetting of 21 November 2016 as well as to the one carried out at the Gdansk-Medication Penitentiary in 2017. The judges, because it is repeated, indicated that the response of the Prison Service authorities to the emergence of mental illness was correct, was under proper medical care, but his illness was in remission, which allowed him to stay and function well under the conditions of a semi-open facility. The judge also carried out other assessments of staff status, and I will no longer enter into it, in the context of the description and evaluation of the entire unit, which was also positive. I'm talking about the last unit he was in. In conclusion, the results of the supervisory activities carried out were found that the living conditions and the state of medical, psychological and sanitary care were without any charge. No irregularities were found. In order to shorten, I would add that from the information sent on 24 January 2019 by the President of the District Court in Gdansk, it appears that a number of proceedings concerning Stefan W. were conducted in Department IV. the applications which he led mainly were requests for conditional early release. I have already informed the High House of the effects of these actions. According to Art. 96 § 1 of the Penal Code of Implementation in the Therapeutic System are punishable by convictions with non-psychotic mental disorders. It is extremely important that this sounds, in the face of many inaccuracies or false information, sometimes maybe manipulations that appeared in public space. It is precisely this therapeutic system that concerns the process of non-psychotic convictions, including those convicted of the offence referred to in Article. 197, 203 of the Criminal Code, i.e. crimes against the so-called. sexual freedom committed in connection with sexual preference disorder, mental impairment as well as addiction to alcohol and other narcotic or psychotropic drugs. Well, if medical and educational considerations support this, they can be punished in the therapeutic ward. and others convicted with their consent. The need for referrals for punishment in the therapeutic system should be based in particular on a psychiatric opinion. In the present case, such a request for psychiatric opinions was not made at any stage of the enforcement procedure. Few of this, as I would like to stress, was convicted of a crime involving participation, the use of armed robbery and the perpetrator or the convicted in the course of the execution of the sentence was diagnosed as suffering from a psychotic disorder that disqualified, as I mentioned, from the conditions, from the application of the provisions of the Law on so-called. The beasts. In a word, in terms of the possibility of the Prison Service formulated views on the detention of the sentenced person at the end of the sentence or on the basis of the so-called. The laws on beasts, which were adopted by the Sejm in the previous term, do not correspond to reality. In a law-abiding state, it is not possible for any of the perpetrators to extend the duration of the sentence by a decision of the Director of the Prison Service. I would like to remind you that the original, too, could be said to be the perpetrator who laid the foundations for the creation of the Law on the Beasts, a man named Trynkiewicz, the perpetrator who also committed four times, but not the bank robbery, only four times the murder of children on a sexual basis, was released during the period of the previous government's operation into freedom and for 2.5 months was at liberty because such are the standards of the state of law, even though there were opinions of sexual experts, psychiatrists in the prison, as well as the position of the Prison Service, that it is inevitable that he would commit again similar crimes for which he was put behind bars. Despite this knowledge, he had to be released into the wild because it was only a pending procedure under the Law on the Beasts that had just been passed, and the perpetrator of this law was eligible, because it was also first adopted and therefore eventually went to that plant. [[Get to the point.]] This law - and the requirements - and the conditions that I mentioned - adopted by the previous parliament, which plays a positive role in preventing the return to the crime of the most dangerous offenders described in this provision, unfortunately did not refer to the perpetrator mentioned above, could not apply. That is why they are being manipulated by this information, which shows that this law could have been applicable in this case. In short, because my time has come to an end, and I still have some important information to give to you, I would like to say that the intensive work on which the Minister of Home Affairs will talk is ongoing, but above all, the Minister of Health, in order to create such legal opportunities, so that in similar situations in the future the Prison Service and above all the competent experts, doctors can respond significantly more effectively and prevent the possible release of such perpetrators into freedom. As long as the Polish state does not have such tools, it cannot use them either. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the rules on the Enforcement Criminal Code, which are in force in this area, were adopted in 1997. They were also a reaction to certain pathologies that took place in the past, related to the abuse of psychiatric treatment and tools related to the placing there against the will of perpetrators and the deprivation of liberty or the use of research, the diagnosis of those who did not agree to receive such treatment. Therefore, the 1997 Code, as previously adopted by the Law on the Protection of Mental Health, is also the result of a certain mood and thinking about finding a balance between the efficiency of the State's action and the possibility of reacting to cases of threats related to mentally ill persons, as well as the possible field of abuse that may arise. We remember the so-called period of action. The psyche and we remember that in 1997 this memory was even more alive. Therefore, the legal solutions that functioned, which were then applied, did not provide for a reaction to the history of the type of Trynkiewicz, it is also about events, unfortunately tragic events that we have heard about recently. On the other hand, as far as the scope of the investigation is concerned, because this is my second role, which I wanted to present to you here in the most brief terms, I think I will have the opportunity to complete this statement in the second part, then more broadly on this subject...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u221	Minister, you will still have time to answer questions after questions, so if we could put this in that part, we would still hear speeches and information from other ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u222	Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you for your understanding and your patience. Once again, I would like to say that a terrible thing has happened, a crime openly committed by a dangerous criminal, and I hope that the Polish state will draw the right conclusions from this dramatic, terrible event. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u223	Thank you. I will ask the Minister of the Interior and Administration of Mr Joachim Brudziński to provide further information on this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the actions taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration and the Police after the dramatic event that this crime was committed for everyone on January 13 during a unique event, events which in their 20-year history have always been associated with everyone, regardless of any kind of disputes that were taking place around the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, with something good, positive. This death, I'm sure, has shaken us all. Ladies and gentlemen! In a detailed manner, I will allow myself to present a detailed calendar of all the events that took place immediately after this dramatic event. I would also like to complete what Mr Zbigniew Ziobro has already said about the circumstances that accompanied this dramatic situation. High Izbo! 13 January at 3 p.m. On the stage of the Gdansk finals of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help there was a knife attack by President Paweł Adamowicz. A man ran up on stage, ran up to the president, stabbed him with a knife. Today we know that the information that appeared in the media space practically immediately after this event, that he entered this stage, eating a poster with the inscription: the media, that he got this poster, turned out to be, thanks to the immediately undertaken work by the police, absolutely untrue. This man, all indications of this, continues a detailed procedure, jumped through the railings at a particular moment, i.e. in the moment of the finale, the light to the sky, when the attention of all gathered, also unprofessional protection, because it has to be said very clearly, was directed in a completely different direction. He ran up to President Adamowicz, stabbed him. Immediately after this incident, Chief Police Officer General Jarosław Szymczyk informed me of this incident. I immediately informed Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and President Andrzej Duda about this beastly attack. Just before the hour. 23, when I realized, also thanks to the activity of Mr Protasiewicz on one of the Internet portals, that this huge tragedy causes extremely disgusting attitudes and reactions of some people, I informed the police that there are voices in the space of social networks that glorify this crime and call for other criminal activities. About an hour. 7.30 the next day, i.e. On January 14, the police informed me that the man who threatened to take the lives of the presidents of Poznań and Wrocław was arrested and would be responsible for calling for a crime. These arrests were possible thanks to the Bureau's work in the fight against Cybercrime of the Police Headquarters. 14 January at 3 p.m. 11 Police reported that the Grand Help Orchestra final event was not reported as a mass event. This is also important information, High Izbo, because one of the representatives of the security company publicly informed the media that this event was a mass event. This event was not reported as a mass event, and therefore - there was no regime here, which accompanied mass events, the regime, in a good word of meaning, security. About an hour. 11 I organized a briefing with the head of the department of home affairs and administration. I was also in constant contact with the chief of police, who kept me informed of all necessary information. That day I also met with the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro. About an hour. I've decided to initiate an inspection at the Typhoon Security Agency. This agency secured the evening concert of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help on Sunday. 14 January after 3 p.m. 13, i.e. After receiving the information and numerous announcements that there will be marches throughout the country condemning the attack on President Paweł Adamowicz, knowing about these exceptionally, as I have already said, disgusting and unworthy attitudes of some Internet users, not only Internet users, because such reports have unfortunately also taken place by telephone, for example on the number of the emergency call centre, I have decided to be subject to detailed control and protection from the police of all these manifestations, assemblies and marches. Knowing that one of the largest such gatherings was co-organized and planned by the Civic Platform, I contacted President Grzegorz Schetin. I informed him that anything regarding the possible expectations of the organizers concerning the Police will, of course, be carried out and fully secured that cooperation with the organizers in this matter will be strictly and clearly necessary. January 14 c.m. 15 The police have apprehended more people in connection with the criminal threats that appeared online after the attack on the President. Men were detained, among others. in Warsaw and Olsztyn. On 15 January, I received a letter from the former President of Warsaw, Ms Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, in connection with the threats that were directed to her. I've contacted the president. We've made a decision to secure the police's support with regard to security. I can say with satisfaction, on the occasion - I hope that through the transmission this debate will resonate in society - that the person who committed such threats to the President was detained by the police on 27 January. The court's decision was arrested today for three months. Let this be a warning to all those who try to use such situations for exceptional, as I said, unacceptable and unworthy attitudes and actions. I want to declare very clearly from this point of view as Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, that I take my duty to all citizens of the Republic of Poland, to all local authorities, to public persons, regardless of their political views or from an ad hoc, intense political dispute. On January 16, when I was aware of all kinds of doubts about the ongoing proceedings, I recommended the gene. Jarosław Szymczyk carried out a detailed inspection of the actions of the Gdańsk Police. Already then I received the assurance that all doubts will be resolved, all circumstances will be checked, I stress this. These actions continue to be implemented. Once the audit has been completed, the results will be presented to the public. By January 16, police officers throughout the country had made dozens of arrests in connection with calls on the Internet for murders and acts of aggression. From Monday 14 January to 18 January, more than 20 people suspected of threatening the presidents, officials, politicians and self-governments, as well as those who publicly mocked and mocked the death of the tragically deceased President Paul Adamowicz. On January 19, the services secured the funeral of President Paweł Adamowicz in Gdansk. The funeral celebrations of the deceased tragically president were quiet. About 45 thousand participated. persons. On 21 January, I decided to initiate a procedure to revoke the concessions of the Typhoon Protection Agency. A number of irregularities were found during the audit of the Agency's MMS. The trader grossly violated the conditions for carrying out business activities, among others. did not verify the criminality of security personnel or supervise the performance of security tasks by employees. In addition, the trader allowed the performance of the tasks of a qualified physical protection worker to be performed by a person not included in the list of qualified physical protection workers. In the Agency there were employment situations as security workers who were not over 18 years of age on the date of signature of the contract. There is still a process of withdrawal of this agency's concessions, but I can already inform the High House that minors were also participants in this finale of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid in Gdańsk. From Monday, January 14 to January 25, cybersecurity officers identified the names of 25 people who were responsible for criminal threats and called for violence. These people were brought to the police units. Five of them were arrested, with this one today, they're gonna be another. January 30th... from January 14th to January 29th, the police started a total of 58 hate crimes, including criminal threats. As I said, a few people were under temporary arrest. High Izbo! As for such a very technical description of the events that accompanied this dramatic crime, I would like to present the following information on the actions undertaken by the police. On 15 November 2018, information from the Penal Institute in Gdańsk-Przemysł was received to the City Police Command in Gdańsk, that Stefan W., after serving the sentence of imprisonment, would leave the penitentiary on 8 December at 3 p.m. 12.30. This information was disseminated about Stefan W.'s planned exit, sent to the e-mail addresses of Police Station No.III and Police Station No. IV in Gdańsk. On 30 November 2018, Jolanta W., who informed the staff aspirant, the head of the Operations and Reconciliation Department about her concerns about her son Stefan W.'s stay in the Penal Department in Gdańsk-Przemysł. The details of these doubts expressed by Mrs Jolanta W. have already been informed here, from this place, by the Minister of Justice. A memo was made from this conversation on 30 November. 30 November at 3 p.m. 12.30 a telegram was drawn up to the Department of Penalty in Gdansk asking for action to be taken as quickly as possible in relation to the verification of the information provided by the mother carrying out the penalty, her concerns. Here, at this point I would like to stop, High Izbo. I inform you, because it is known to the public that this information was influenced by the mother, that in some publications there was such a charge that the police did not inform in this memo the prison that it was information obtained from the mother. It is clear that, first of all, it is the protection of the source of information, secondly, it is obvious that in such a case no mother would be interested to inform and Mrs Jolanta behaved in an extremely responsible manner. That must be said very clearly. So that's why there was no information indicating the source. On 4 December, a telegram from the prison was received at Police Station No III in Gdansk with information about the actions taken. You also informed Minister Zbigniew Ziobro about these activities in detail. All I can say is that Stefan W. didn't say where he was going to live, didn't give the address where he was going to live, and he actually declared that he was going to leave the Pomeranian Voivodeship and become, as he claimed, a homeless person. On 6 December, at Police Station III in Gdańsk, a telegram was developed, which was to be sent to the City Police Command in Gdańsk, asking for dissemination throughout the country of the contents contained in it: that Stefan W. assaulted banks, jumping and using a pistol dummy, that he intends to commit a similar crime with a machete or other dangerous tool after leaving the prison and that in the event of a similar modus operandi in the territory of the service, he would be typified as a possible perpetrator. I would like to stress this very clearly and say that, among other things, this is the case. This check I ordered from the police, which was happening to this memo, and whether it actually got to the commands all over the country. On 10 December a telegram came from the prison to the city headquarters in Gdansk with information that on 8 December at 3 p.m. 12.30 Stefan W. left the penitentiary and went to his place of residence [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the area of Gdansk. Your marshal, if I could ask... I'm gonna cut it short.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u225	Yes, please complete the information, just remember that there is still a Minister of Health. Minister for the Interior and Administration of Joachim Brudziński: Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Many of these actions, which were undertaken by the police, have already been discussed here by Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. I'm ready because of the lack of time, if there are such specific questions for the following days after December 12th, it's after the police have already received the information... [[Voice from the room: Now, now.]] ...that Stefan W. left the prison facility to give you a very detailed... [[Minister, really now.]] Your Marshal... [[Your marshal, really now.]] But I have extended the time... Minister for the Interior and Administration of Joachim Brudziński: Oh, I'm sorry, of course. ...therefore, if the Minister wishes to provide answers and information, and everyone in the Chamber expects it, please. [[Please, please.]] Minister for the Interior and Administration of Joachim Brudziński: Excuse me, of course, please. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo. On 23 December Kazimierz Ł. shall submit a notification of the offence under Article. 124 Code of Offences - break of window window, at Police Station IV in Gdansk. Estimated value of losses - PLN 400. On 23 December, a window was inspected and the area penetrated. On 24 December, the head of the Unit of Police Station IV in Gdansk became acquainted with the material relating to the offence. A surveillance card was drawn up on 27 December and appropriate instructions were issued. On 3 January, the notifier submitted an application to prosecute the perpetrator of the offence. The policeman in charge asked the residents of the property where the victim lived and applied to secure the surveillance footage. On 6 January, the conductor interviewed the victim's son, Tobias L., and obtained a photo of the footprints left by the perpetrator. Tobias L. was questioned as a witness. And now why am I informing the High House about this? Because both Kazimierz L. and Tobias L. pointed out the possibility that Stefan W. Tobias L., the son of the person making this notification, was a partner of Stefan W. in one of the robberies he was carrying out. In public space, however, information has already appeared that Stefan W., after he was released from prison, sought contact with him and blamed him for his arrest, arrest, conviction, and imprisonment. On 10 January, the conductor made an unsuccessful attempt to serve the summons at the whereabouts of Stefan W. On 12 January 2019, the operator of the activities received information from the property manager that the place of residence of the victim is not subject to monitoring. On 14 January 2019 the victim Kazimierz Ł. - On 14 January, the day after this tragedy - he applied to the protocol to withdraw his application to prosecute the perpetrator of the offence. On day 30... And now it's an event. I described to you here the event which took place on 23 December, while on 30 December Kazimierz Ł. makes a notification of the offence with Article. 124 misdemeanor code - window break. Its value is 400 PLN again. And those actions that police officers are taking are similar to those of 23 December. On 1 January Kazimierz Ł. shall submit a notification of the offence under Article. 124, i.e. the attempt to break the window again - the same value of losses. These events took place three times. High Izbo! On 20 January, the victim Kazimierz L. appeared at Police Station IV in Gdańsk and stated that there was no objection to police work in connection with those events which took place on 23rd and 30th December and 1st January. Now I'm going back to that miserable January 13th day. Immediately after the arrest, Stefan W. is transported to Police Station II in Gdansk. Once he is found to be unwell, he is transferred to a voivodship hospital in Gdansk. After a medical consultation, he is transferred to the police station in Gdansk. From the detailed information I have in front of me, it appears that at about an hour. 20.05 Police District Command has notified the Chief of Regional Police and then Chief of Police General Szymczyk. On January 16th, as I said, control activities carried out by police officers of the Police Command Control Office in the area of the Police Garrison begin. On January 21st, a security officer was arrested, a company dedicated to protecting the finals of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, Dariusz S. He was subject to a precautionary measure in the form of a temporary arrest for a period of 3 months. At the request of the Court of First Instance, He's been put in a hospital. In the case in question, procedural actions are carried out. This is the person, High Izbo, who tried to mislead the police and encouraged them to give false testimony to other security personnel. High Izbo! I presented these actions to the police immediately after this incident and some of the actions undertaken and related to the person Stefan W., before this incident officers from the stations III and IV of Gdańsk for a reason. I am the last one who would like to avoid political responsibility here because of the fact of supervising the police, but I also have no doubt that the actions taken by police officers were professional actions resulting from the current rules. But it also seems obvious that this element of good exchange of information and good association of facts is missing here, and therefore it is as if I was not fleeing the duty to inform the High House that these proceedings, which are currently being conducted by officers from the Police Command Control Office, are designed to clarify and answer questions, firstly whether there has been a lack of due diligence and proper handling of the case, and secondly, what should be done to prevent such congestion in the future or such a lack of proper correlation between the various police stations. Of course, if there are specific questions, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. And to speak and present the information, I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u226	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Minister of Health, I would like to present information related to the death of President Gdansk Paweł Adamowicz. This tragic event shocked the whole of Poland, so you will allow me to begin by expressing my sincere condolences to the next President, as well as to those with whom he cooperated. I want to assure you that you are not left alone in this tragedy. First of all, I would like to thank all health professionals who have been so sacrificial in helping in this dramatic event and saving the patient's life. Thank you very much to all doctors, nurses of the University Clinical Centre in Gdańsk. I know you were doing everything you could to save the President's life. Unfortunately, the injuries caused by the attacker were so extensive that they could not save his life. The people of Gdansk also showed great support, who responded very actively to the appeal of the regional center of blood donation and blood treatment, giving hundreds of liters of blood. At that time more than 521 people who gave more than 170 liters of blood came forward in Gdansk alone. This is a great gesture of solidarity, and thank you very much for that. Although the President's life could not be saved, devoted blood will probably save the health and lives of many others, including others. Gdansk. I would also like to refer the thanks to the medical emergency staff who immediately arrived at the scene and drove the President to the hospital rescue unit. At the outset, rescue operations were undertaken by the ambulance crew commissioned by the organizer to secure the event. The notification of the incident was registered in the Gdansk Medical Dispatch at an hour. 19.59. The medical dispatcher placed the team with code 1, i.e. with light and sound signals, a specialist medical rescue team consisting of four persons, including a doctor. The medical rescue team arrived at the scene at hours. 20.08. The distance from the scene to the hospital is 4 km. In the opinion of the Minister of Health, all emergency services' activities have been carried out in accordance with the procedures currently in place since the notification by the medical dispatcher to the emergency department. The information received shall be confirmed in accordance with the exit order cards and medical emergency operations cards which are at the disposal of the medical emergency team. After being admitted to the emergency unit, the victim was transferred to the O.R. immediately in accordance with the procedures in force. There, as you probably know, was followed by surgery for several hours. This procedure was attended by high-end specialists representing various kinds of specialties. They fought with great commitment for the health and life of the President. The Minister of Health, taking into account the determination with which health workers fought for their health, for the President's life, decided to grant workers who took part in this dramatic action, honour badges: deserved for health protection in Poland. The tragic death of the President raises legitimate questions about procedures for dealing with persons who are at increased risk of committing a crime after they are released. At the initiative of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice shall carry out a detailed analysis of the current regulations in this area and shall examine the possibility of introducing new system regulations for persons to whom the so-called regulations apply. security measures of a liberal nature which do not comply with the obligations imposed, i.e. they don't give in to therapy. The new procedure could include criminals who have been diagnosed with mental illness, personality disorder, addiction to alcohol, drugs or other substances during the execution of the sentence, as well as mental impairment. Only effective monitoring would allow monitoring of the continuation of the treatment process, the treatment initiated during the stay of the prison and the prevention of undesirable behaviour of the persons involved, as well as the control of their behaviour towards the environment. In the case of persons who fail to comply with the obligations imposed on continuation of therapy, they do not undergo treatment, the custody court could, of course, decide, depending on the degree of risk, to place them in a closed mental institution. In the current state of law, even if a mental illness manifests itself in the course of the execution of the sentence, after leaving the penitentiary, it is covered by the Law of 1994 on the Protection of Mental Health, which provides that a mentally ill person may be admitted to a psychiatric hospital without consent, first of all, when his previous conduct indicates that he or she is directly threatening his or her own life or the health of other persons because of this disease; this is Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The proposed changes to the procedure in such cases have been addressed inter alia. organized at the initiative of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki meeting with representatives of clubs and parliamentary circles. In line with the findings of this meeting, a team of experts will be set up, consisting of representatives of all political groups, which will develop solutions primarily consistent with the well-being of the patient and sealing system for monitoring the behaviour of people with mental disorders. This team should be formed soon. The representatives of these formations should report their representatives as experts by the end of the week. We would like to start working immediately on solutions that will prevent future dramas such as the one we were dealing with in Gdansk. Finally, I would like to confirm the readiness and openness of the Minister of Health in relation to the substantive discussion on possible changes in this area. I hope that we can work together to develop solutions that will improve the safety of society, but will also ensure that the patient's rights are respected, and that these changes will be adopted unanimously by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u227	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The murder of President Paul Adamowicz is a huge tragedy. It's a great evil that arouses great sorrow and regret. There is no excuse for such acts. Our thoughts and prayers are with President Adamowicz's family. What is important, I want to emphasize this very clearly at the beginning, we all see - I hope we all see it - that there were many beautiful attitudes and gestures of solidarity from different people and social groups in the public space in Poland. It's a good thing we should see, too. Homicide is worthy of the highest damnation. It's an act of inexplicable barbarism. There is no excuse for crime, but it must also be made clear that it is not entitled to lay responsibility for this murder on anyone: different persons, institutions, politicians or government. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we know that the murderer is a 27-year-old, convicted earlier of armed robbery with dangerous tools, for crimes of armed robbery for which he was sentenced to five years and six months of imprisonment. The perpetrator tried to get parole three times early, but he didn't leave the prison until the end of the sentence. We've heard that there's been serious mental problems. This tragic situation should therefore not be used politically. Everyone - politicians, journalists, people from public space - should speak with one voice and not cast unfounded accusations against anyone. We should respond to such conduct unambiguously, condemn them, show that we are a community that can resist evil over division. High Seym! The government is examining in detail the causes of the situation so that such a tragedy will never happen again. There's a mass event security bill. It is explained whether all procedures have been carried out. As we have heard, powerful work is underway to explain the circumstances of the murder. The police responded decisively and responded in the first days after the murder. She's made arrests in connection with calls on the Internet for murders and acts of aggression. Once again, we are appealing to stop the bad emotions. It is clear that police action will be consistent and rigorous. At the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, a meeting was also held with representatives of political parties. Ladies and gentlemen! The D.A. is conducting an intensive investigation, and the Minister spoke about it. Independent prosecutorial proceedings, proceedings of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, police proceedings, were also mentioned by Minister Joachim Brudziński. Let the institutions of the state operate. If everyone is concerned with all sides of the political dispute, we will be able to lower the temperature of the public debate if we try to see the other person in the debate first and foremost, then there will also be good after this terrible tragedy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u229	Thank you. I ask Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On January 13, 2019, during the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, a political assassination took place on the president of the city of Gdansk Pawle Adamowicz. [[What's that?]] There was no such tragic event after 1989. This tragedy has affected all of us, and therefore all the circumstances of this case require an absolute explanation by all the services. However, it is difficult to be sure that the services in the present state, under the supervision of Minister Ziobro and Minister Brudziński, are ready to do so. On behalf of all Poles who believe that the fight against hatred in Poland is possible, after my speech I will put on the hand of Minister Ziobra a list of 30 closed cases concerning hate crimes. [[Applause]] Minister! What did you do when political deaths were issued by the All-Polish Youth, among others. For President Adamowicz? You didn't do anything. What did you do when the statues of the PO Euro MPs were hung on gallows in Katowice? You didn't do anything. What did you do when a bald-shaved group of young guys were digging up in Radom? You did something here. What did you do? You charged that guy who got kicked for getting into a fight, and Mrs. Mazurek said she understood the attackers. For three years, you've been preparing the state, his services, so that they don't react to extremism so they don't react to hate. This is the prosecutor who's investigating the murder of President Adamowicz who thanked Jacek Miedlar. He also thanked Minister Jaki and Minister Ziobra responsible for the prosecution. With your attitude you have created conditions in which the state could not react in a normal way. You've made crimes and hate speech. a mass remission of the investigation. That was the case in this case. When the police note came up that Stefan W., according to his mother, might be planning something terrible, you didn't do anything. Where was the ABW then? When the prison service knew that Stefan W. had anti-democratic and extremist views, you did nothing. When Stefan W. said he hated the Platform and wanted Jarosław Kaczyński to become a dictator, you did nothing. Prime Minister! It's time to stop limiting your actions to PR procedures. Above all, we expect transparency in this matter. [[Applause]] Why wasn't much of the information from the investigation officially given after this incident, but we had to learn from the media leaks? Minister Brudziński! What exactly were the police's actions after receiving a note from the Prison Service on the day before the murderer was released? Minister Yak! You are responsible for supervising prisons in Poland. Perhaps you have focused too much on organizing press conferences and other teams, and not enough on real work. What did you do for the past six months to oversee the prison? Or was it just an assumption: if you don't know what to do, set up a team? Minister Ziobro! What did your supervision look like, especially for the past six months, on the work of a deputy minister in your prison department? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! When the Senate was to commemorate the murdered Paweł Adamowicz, your group in the Senate was unable to rise above the divisions and crossed out the words to honor President Paweł Adamowicz. So I'm going to end by reading the sections of the resolution that you've crossed out in the Senate: [[Voice from the room: But we weren't there.]] President Paweł Adamowicz died in a criminal assassination. We condemn this act of terror and hatred, no matter who's behind it. [[Some of the Members are up.]] There is no consent to any signs of aggression in public life. We oppose hate speech, violence in every form, regardless of motivation. Paweł Adamowicz loved Gdansk and Poland. Let's try to match the pattern he left us. Then his death will not be in vain. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the murdered President of Gdansk, Paweł Adamowicz. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u231	Thank you, Member. Mr Tomasz Romankowski will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u232	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! January 13th this year There's been an unimaginable crime. President Paweł Adamowicz was murdered in cold blood. It's a crime that actually, as the previous speakers said, is a crime without precedent and is primarily a crime. I wouldn't be tempted, like some of the previous speakers and, I suspect, people who will take the floor after me for such a term, a claim that it was a political murder. You have no argument for this. In my opinion and in my assessment of my club, it is necessary to require with determination and determination the services of the Polish state, the police, the prosecutor's office, special services, to explain all the circumstances of this crime. There is no doubt in Poland, but also in the world, who is responsible for this crime directly - Stefan W. On the other hand, we need to answer a number of questions that arise in public space, questions about motivation, questions about possible participation of third parties who have instigated or helped to carry out this terrible crime. We as Kukiz.15 first of all demand that the prosecutor general decide that the proceedings currently taking place in the District Attorney's Office in Gdansk be transferred - for the safety of this procedure, as well as to avoid allegations of bias of Gdansk prosecutors - to another unit of the prosecutor's office in Poland. As was the case with the Amber Gold scandal. [[Applause]] At that time, there was no doubt that this matter should be moved. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a member of the Amber Gold Investigation Committee, which has been working for two years. Believe me, words that often fall out of the mouth of publicists who speak of the Tricity as a Polish Sicilian are not made up, they are not fantasy. Those are the facts. With regard to the level of corruption and irregularities in the organs of the Polish state located in the Tri-City, it is really difficult to compare them to what is in other places in Poland. Therefore, I do not accuse a specific prosecutor of the referee or the entire District Attorney's Office in Gdansk, but I believe that this matter should be dealt with by another prosecutor in Poland, as well as that the thread connected with the extensive three-city criminal basement should be examined very thoroughly. The Polish State has such instruments. I understand that neither you, the Minister of Justice, nor the Minister of the Interior, nor the Prime Minister, can disclose - because I suspect they are not even responsible - the knowledge of the ongoing proceedings, but from this point on I can only appeal for hard work so that all the circumstances of this case are explained, that more of this speaker should not be said about political murder, because in my view it is a criminal matter and all the circumstances, in words to the white bone, must be explained so that no one has doubts. As for the circumstances of this case, and for the perpetrator to be punished. Of course, on the occasion of this case, we have shown - mainly due to the absence of the Minister of Health - a huge legal gap as regards the issue of people with mental disorders who, during the execution of imprisonment, may commit serious crimes, including the most serious crimes, after leaving prisons. I hope that the work initiated by the Ministry of Health will be attended by independent experts, representatives of... We, as Kukiz, will present 15 such experts. The idea is that, on this very sensitive issue, about individual freedom in relation to public security at the same time, we should draw up rules to bridge this gap. The issue of sanity, the lack of sanity of the perpetrator of crime is very important. Here, too, we deal with the role of experts, including psychiatrists, in identifying the insanity of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. We have a paradoxical situation in which it is not the court, not the direct or indirect involvement of the prosecutor that determines the social sense of justice in the form of an absolute sentence of imprisonment, but the opinion of an expert psychiatrist. This issue should also be addressed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pay very close attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u233	Thank you, sir. The speech on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will be presented by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! We applied as a PSL-UED club for this information so that the public, so that we, Poles, shocked by the unimaginable tragedy, could learn the truth so that there would be no fake news, lies, leaks, so that there would be a normal debate. We have also requested this information in order to restore the High House's control function over the executive authority. This is one of the basic functions of Parliament. Today we hear information, we want it to continue later. This cannot end in one debate. We thank for it and believe that this is the beginning or opportunity to restore normal dialogue and normal debate in the Sejm. But it has to be precise and continue. In addition to criminal liability, there is also political responsibility and it is an obligation to enforce the superiors, but also the opposition is obliged to claim if it sees that someone has political responsibility. In many places there was information about mental illness in the speech. Whether Stefan W. was reasonable or not at the time of the crime, they will judge the experts at this point. You can't make an impression and talk about mental illness all the time, about the fact that this person was sick, committed some kind of act, committed a crime, in this case a murder, but whether she was reasonable, will assess it to the experts only now. So it can't be an excuse, it can't be a darkened image like that. I can't understand one thing that has been quoted here many times. The defendant said he would take the machete, drive around Poland and commit a crime. His mother came to the police and said, "I'm afraid his son will commit a crime." So? Nothing happened. Nothing happened that would prevent a crime. Unfortunately, the State failed the exam because it did not secure its citizens. Citizens' safety is a central function of the state, securing citizens is a fundamental function of the state. The State here failed the exam and it cannot be said as one of the PiS messengers said after this tragedy that on Twitter Minister Brudziński informed everything and the State passed the exam. No, I can't understand how it is possible that there was no exchange of information, that there was no reflection that the sentenced person, as stated by Minister Ziobra, was not affected by improvement, is not supervised, is not subject to monitoring and is not caught before the event was committed. I also disagree with my previous speaker that there is no political context. There is no escape from this political context because a politician was killed, and the killer at the time of the act spoke of a political party, spoke of the Platform, and before that he had repeatedly spoken of regret about the political formation which condemned him in his opinion. Was everything done in other matters also to ensure the safety of Poles? There have been numerous examples of cases that have been dropped. Today we hear about arrests, arrests, but these arrests and arrests were not until President Gdansk was killed. So what? Did it have to be bloodshed? A man must have died? A good man, a good president, had to die to have a reaction to the hat, to hate? I think that this is also a huge political defeat of the camp, which went to governments, to power and on banners had the fight against crime and security of Poles in the first place. [[And it's working.]] Unfortunately, it was ruined. Unfortunately, I am saying this with regret, Prime Minister, ministers, because this is the thing that makes it impossible for you to find a way to secure the Poles for full safety, even though it was your priority and you said that you could do it best. I hope that you will draw conclusions and political responsibility He's gonna get carried away, too. It's a good thing there's internal procedures, good thing there's controls. I remember when Minister Ćwiakalski, his deputy and other officials were dismissed when the criminal hanged himself in prison. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We expect the Prime Minister of the Polish Government to draw the consequences after the proceedings have been completed, as well as to indicate the guilty not only of the crime itself, because we know that everyone who is guilty, but also of political responsibility and to draw conclusions so that no more of this kind of crime occurs. And we need to do everything to change the law in such a way that we not only tighten the penalties, but also cause them to be inevitable, and to change Poland in such a way that the sense of security for all citizens, regardless of their function, is simply a common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u235	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Ewa Lieder will speak on behalf of the Modern Club in order to present her position. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u236	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! It became a terrible thing, in a cruel way, in front of millions of citizens, President Paweł Adamowicz was murdered. I know everyone's already said it, but it should sound like it. The world may slowly forget that this has happened, but Gdansk is still in great mourning. The killer attacked with a political message on his mouth. The circumstances in which the crime took place, the words and the attitude of the perpetrator themselves indicate that we were dealing with an act of political terror. Our job as politicians, government and services is to ensure that such a crime never happens again. Never. There was a meeting with the Prime Minister, thank you very much, on which the opposition drew attention to a number of issues, although it is a shame that we met in such a composition for the first time in such a tragic situation. What do we expect from the government today? First, we expect answers to the most important questions: Why were clear warning signals ignored, ignored the report of the murderer's mother that her son is deadly and armed in the literal sense of the word, ignored reports of a frightened and aggressively attacked friend of the perpetrator? And we expect better co-operation between the police and prisons on such matters. Secondly, why can't an event such as the Grand Orchestra of Christmas Help count on military and police assistance? Like many volunteers and President Paweł Adamowicz, I also questioned with my daughter, walking, like many volunteers, on the streets of Gdansk and even if you do not like it, the services do not like this charity action, we have the same civil rights and we have the right to help the police and the services. Thirdly, today we are waiting for the government to react on public television. Of course, it is not known whether the public television transmission had a direct impact on what had happened, but the spiral of hatred and reprisal on opposition and local government on public television exceeds all limits. I think today the reaction of the state, the services will be a test of the credibility of the PiS government, whether your words about the need to change the political language have been spoken honestly. Fourthly, we look forward to reopening the closed cases and showing that there is no consent to acts of hatred and hostility in public space, hanging portraits of Euro-Polish Parliamentaries, smoking dolls, portraits of politicians, issuing political death certificates by the All-Polish Youth. The next threats that appear in public space should be immediate response. An example is written in paint on asphalt words with a very specific threat, i.e.: Wadim, you will be next. I don't know if you've read it. It's for Wadim Tyszkiewicz, President of New Salt. We are very interested in your response, your specific response, because the Prime Minister has agreed to open the closed cases. We are interested in the reaction of Minister Ziobra, because that would be concrete, which everyone in the opposition asked for. What about the reaction to the words of Mrs Pawłowicz, who called Paweł Adamowicz the German governor of Gdańsk, the words of the Pomeranian voivodeship, who called the local government the tree of separatism? You could go on, of course. Maybe I won't tell you again today. The last reaction of Minister Brudziński shows, however, that there is still no clear assessment of hate speech. I'm talking about Mr. Rybak's jumps, who should be stopped immediately. We're waiting for a reaction, Minister. Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, We have the right as a society to act effectively with the police and the service response not only after the tragedy, but every day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u237	In the name of the Circle of Messenger Now! Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several times from this speaker I had the opportunity to talk about hate speech and then the State of Law and Justice, but also from Kukiz15 you laughed at me and talked about the fact that there was no such thing as hate speech and that it was not right to talk about hate speech in the context of the law at all. [[Voice from the room: Not all of them.]] And we know very well that the language that we all use, uncontrolled, can lead to tragedy. I've talked about this a few times from this podium. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I'll start with Mr. Ziobra. For 25 minutes, you tried to suggest that the person who committed the murder of Paul Adamowicz, only because she was mentally ill, did so. I have a specific question for you: why was prosecutor Krzysztof Sierak assigned to the case, your close colleague, the prosecutor who resigned from the investigation, interfered in investigations into Mr. Rybak, the anti-Semite, and former priest Jack Międlar, the anti-Semites? Why is this prosecutor in charge of this investigation? I don't get it at all. As to what Minister Brudziński said, I am very pleased that, in fact, in a few hours, as the Minister said, for several days - I hope I will not be mistaken - 58 cases have been sort of settled, so many hate cases have been solved that there have been dozens or dozens of people arrested. That's very good information. I am very pleased that, in the end, there is indeed a reaction from the state to actions of hatred. This should have been a long time ago. On the basis of my own example, I can provide this information: In 2017, a dozen people wished me dead. The case has been dropped. In 2016, one man wished the death of me and my family. And in fact, it's only now that my stubbornness is over in February of this year. I've been waiting almost three years for this. And I have run out of concrete statements here about what we will do next, we here, as Members. And the details are on the table. I can give you back, I've said this before, my bills. Blind lawsuit, which means chasing haters online, it's a very easy thing to do. The Ombudsman also said that this should be done. The second point is the revision of the Criminal Code, namely the legal protection of all persons discriminated against on grounds of age, gender, disability and gender identity. It's not there, and that's what the U.N. told us to do. And the third matter, which also lies on the table, is the law which passes, and concerns all of us, that we, as Members of Parliament and Members, may avoid speaking hate in our service. And that's three things we should do. It doesn't have to be my own, I can give it back to you as a gift, but in the end, Let's do it, because it's very important to all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u239	Thank you. And the rest of the time on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle... [[Not Free and Solidarni.]] ...sorry, on behalf of the Members' Circle now! Mr Richard Petru. [[They're not free, they're not solidarity.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was a political murder. And for such a murder in every country, there should be a resignation. The question is, who of you feels responsible for him, for what happened, which services failed most - whether you are Deputy Minister Jak, responsible for prison, or Minister Ziobro, responsible for the justice system, or Minister Brudziński, responsible for the police. Ladies and gentlemen! How is it that the mother of the criminal's warning has been ignored? How did this happen, what kind of service didn't work? Why have all the threats and acts of hatred been minimized and resolved over the years? I've received a whole bunch of threats myself. They were all through the D.A.'s office, which is headed by Minister Ziobro, deceased. Why would they make fun of puppets burned, gallows? Why didn't you respond? Why have you never once hit your chest, never once said the word "public television"? Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! It's time for reflection. Minister Ziobro himself said in this speech that at some point there was a change in the behaviour of Stefan W. What are the reasons for this? What TV did he watch? Why is he so politically aggressive? [[TVN24.]] Why are you laughing at this and not jumping to conclusions? Each of you should hit your chest and have some reflection. Unfortunately, such a murder happened in Poland. We would expect, first of all, in the name of honor and responsibility, from the Prime Minister also, any reaction. These reports were formalistic. You presented what happened, and my question is more important: What did not happen? What kind of service failed? Why did you turn out to be a theoretical state? How can we be sure that this will not happen in the future? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not enough to tighten up the code. It is important to stop with the speech of hatred, to call off the president of public television and, on your part, to admit where there was a mistake in the management of the police, the prison service and the justice system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u241	Thank you, Mr Richard Petru, the Circle of Members now! Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member, will also speak at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The crime, the murder, especially the murder that was so spectacular in the President-in-Office of the city, is shocking and requires, above all, in the public debate, also in the parliamentary debate, seriousness. In our view, the importance of this multidimensionally lacked, in the opinion of the National Movement. Firstly, there is a lack of this seriousness in the operation of the state and in the operation of the public sphere with regard to the security of mass events. It is a serious fact that security agencies that secure such events recruit from among the disabled, from among very young people, people who do not have any qualifications at all to secure such events, such events. Unfortunately, it is done in Poland on the basis of: somehow it will be. And somehow it works. And it works thousands of times. It goes a thousand times, and another 1001 goes into tragedy. This is just ridiculous. And we are dealing in Poland with a systemic incomparability of many people, including those who organize such events. The second thing about the seriousness of the Polish state and the public debate is the question of the safety of public persons at all. I will only remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that everything indicates that the Polish state as such, and I do not share here into the countries governed by the Platform or the State governed by the PiS, has so far not drawn conclusions after the event of 10 April 2010. I would like to remind you that during this term we have also dealt with a situation which one of the journalists described with such a terrible word: tupolewism, when a plane, supposedly returning from London, was there some disturbance, how many officials wanted to get on, the pilot did not want to take off, etc. So there are no elementary security procedures for the most important people in the state or at all in the public sphere. And we're dealing with this all the time. After 11 November that year, one British journalist wrote that in Poland there was no safety issue, because he was walking beside the President of the Republic of Poland and he did not have a proven commercial or bag with contents. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to say that this cannot continue, that we need to take seriously the issue of the safety of public people in Poland. Another thing. Seriously, ladies and gentlemen, we need to approach the public debate. And, of course, in the event of this tragedy, we have to deal with behaviors that are hard... the public doesn't take them seriously. I think that underneath, everyone feels unbalanced in situations where yesterday's opponents, yesterday's adversaries, also from the liberal part of the opposition, those who pulled Paul Adamowicz out of his questionable property, suddenly shouting: santo subito. This was still a few months ago not a good candidate for President of Gdansk, because it concerned some problematic topics, and now: santo subito, now this is our man on the altars. But the political mechanism of political canonization due to tragic death this is not a new thing in Poland. Because when we spoke after the Smolensk disaster, we said: full, transparent explanation of the causes of this catastrophe, full respect for mourning, condemnation for all those who wanted to disturb this mourning. And that's how it was, unfortunately, that the grief was disturbed at the time. On the other hand, there was a lack of agreement for political canonization, e.g. Lech Kaczyński's character only because of the tragic death. There was a lack of consent because you can't create a person's cult just because tragically, under terrible circumstances, she died. And this lack of seriousness also appears, there is a kitsch of reconciliation, which no one understands and no one respects. He vanishes a day later, this kitsch of reconciliation, this kitch of such an uproar. Even so, it is about the Church and the hierarchs, who suddenly in the case of a policy supporting various ideas regarding LGBT do not see any problem to bury it in the basilica to bury it in the temple. All of this does not reflect the importance of public debate in Poland and the serious approach of us as Poles, as a national community, and above all the elites that form this national community, to the public sphere and to responsibility for just words that cause us to hesitate between extreme emotions, extremely reluctant and precisely such kitsches of reconciliation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is also very important to say that unfortunately, whatever we do, there will be killings in Poland, people will be disturbed and unfortunately it may happen again, God forbid, and let us do everything so that this is not the case, repeat such a dramatic case. Or maybe not a coincidence, because if someone from outside Poland was behind it and had political intentions to destabilize our country, now think about how much can be played and what can be done with Poles, doing just such a crime. And the question is, is the political community that is at its throats at such a moment, immune to it, to such cases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is also the thing that requires a serious approach of all players on the political stage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u243	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members still like to join the list of people who would like to ask a question at this point in the session of the Sejm? I can't see. So I close the list. You are beginning Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! The questions raised by the ministers remain valid. Did the prison service monitor Stefan W.? We hear the answer, yes. Has Stefan W. been psychiatricly examined? We hear you do. He even had 48 therapy talks. Did the Prison Service inform the police about the threat that the future assassin of President Adamowicz might pose? We hear you do. Let me remind you that his mother informed about the threat. Has this information reached the Homeland Security Agency? Why wasn't he monitored on the loose even though the police informed the police about the possibility of bank robbery and Stefan W. being the perpetrator? Do you have a record of how many cases like Stefan W. currently walk the streets of Polish cities? She's won, ministers, routine and conservative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The role of the state is to ensure the safety of citizens. You know very well, Minister Brudziński, that mass event law is largely being avoided, and security agencies only exist on paper and by names, because they are unable to secure any serious event. And I appeal to you to persevere in your determination to pursue this heiterism, but also...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u245	I invite Mr Wojciech the King.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u246	...because you have the opportunity to change the law when it comes to security agencies and mass events. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u247	Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What happened in Gdansk is a sad picture of the functioning of the state, and the killer - the embodiment of hostility and hatred. This situation has exposed the weakness of the state and state institutions for which the government takes responsibility today. To turn a blind eye to hate speech, to politicize the prosecution, to use public media to fight politically paralyzed state institutions. Despite the reliable information of the mother, who, I will remind you, is a graduate of rehabilitation, so she is qualified to rationally assess the threat, the mother who informed the police about her concerns, unfortunately the state institutions did not react. They also failed to respond to numerous communications concerning threats, manifestations, and even demonstrations of hatred. And, ladies and gentlemen, in drawing lessons from this dramatic lesson, I would like to ask you a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What does the government intend to do to restore the normal functioning of state institutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u249	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome. I don't see your MP. Therefore, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have a question: Why did the police and the prison services ignore the mother of the killer's reports that he is dangerous, show dangerous behavior? Why did the prison service ignore the reports or statements by Stefan W. that he would attack with a machete? And why at last Poles should feel safe and believe that the PiS government will fight hate speech more effectively, since not so long ago, because last Sunday in Oświęcim on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the camp there was a march of nationals... [[Voice from the room: Auschwitz.]] ...with Peter Rybak at the head who exclaimed anti-Semitic hate speech? And Minister Brudziński reacted on social networks in this way: react? For what? Is it because someone's head is out of order and for all the evil of the world and his frustrations that one or another nation blames? This isn't the way, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u251	Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Word can kill. We remember those words that the wife of President Adamowicz who was killed sent to us. And I wanted to remind you of the words that fell and sounded really strong: you have to grab something and shave it bald. These are the words of Councilwoman PiS Mrs Kołakowska to Agnieszka Pomaska, a Member from Gdansk. I have a question: Where were you then, Mr. Brudziński, when the police were not interested in this matter? Where were you, Minister Ziobro, when the D.A.'s office three times dropped the case? Even when the court ordered her to resume. What did the D.A. say? The intention of Kołakowska was only an expression of disapproval, not actually to induce anyone to attack. I inform the ministers that, after this incident, she had several e-mails, letters of threats, real cases that the police later dealt with. And the last sentence, if your marshal will allow it. On the side of the Pomeranian Voivodeship - you, Minister Brudziński, supervises the voivodships - there is information that here is the consultative board on: activists of the anti-communist opposition as advisor to the voivode supervised by you are still Anna Stawicka-Kolakowska. The one who was convicted, the one who threatened to send a message to the Civic Platform. That's how you fight hate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u253	Thank you. Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska. You're welcome. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska takes the floor or does she not ask questions? [[I'm crossed out.]] No. Then it is Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, a request to make a public declaration by the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziebra, that he will allow the nearest President Adamowicz... that the prosecution will give them full and unfettered access to the case file, because there can be no silence in this case, no delay. We called for it last week, but we didn't get any information, no confirmation, no clear declaration. [[What do you mean, no?]] Moreover, we feel that our request and our appeal were deliberately ignored. However, in this case there can be no space for silence, to whitewash guilt, which is connected with the atmosphere of hatred in Poland. This is all the more necessary because the name of the prosecutor, who was appointed by the Minister of Justice of Zbigniew Ziebra to investigate the murder of President Adamowicz, was inter alia mentioned. in an investigation into Mrs. Barbara Blida and a decommissioned investigation [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the issue of hate speech Fr. Meatloaf. I also have a question as to whether, as part of the investigation, the prosecutors of Mr Zbigniew Ziębry will examine the question of the suspicion of hatred against President Adamowicz by journalists of the Polish Television and whether the possible participation of the Polish Television in this thread will be explained. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u255	Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Unfortunately, the image of the country that emerges from these statements by the ministers is frightening. Stefan W. announced before he was released that he would commit a crime, and the police and the prison services knew that he wanted to commit this crime. Stefan W. got out of prison and committed the crime. The question is why, with this kind of knowledge, the state simply did not work in this situation. Here, gentlemen, ministers, you convince, you talk about the actions that both services have taken, and the effect is that Stefan W. did exactly what he said he would do. I understand that Stefan W. could not be placed under the preventive supervision set out in the Law on the Beasts, because he would probably not meet all the conditions required by this Law. On the other hand, I would like to ask Minister Brudziński, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why Stefan W. wasn't under operational supervision since you had information that he was a dangerous person and could commit a crime. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u257	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! It is estimated that at present in Polish prisons there are more than 400 people with diagnosed mental diseases. Of these, a large proportion should be treated in hospital conditions. We know he was arrested in the murder of President Gdansk. Mr. Paweł Adamowicz Stefan W. was psychiatric, and yet there has been such a terrible crime. This raises legitimate public concerns. The Minister of Justice described in detail the psychiatric care of Stefan W. during his stay in prison, for which I thank you very much. However, I would like to ask whether there were real legal conditions and possibilities for a doctor or someone else to apply for continued treatment of Stefan W. in a hospital closed after he completed his sentence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u259	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Stefan W. got out of prison because he served his sentence in 5.5 years. There was no way, in my opinion, to stop him if serving his sentence was over. He didn't leave early, just after he served his sentence. On the other hand, the basic question, which at least suggests to me: What was the justification for such a low sentence for Stefan W.? Because you have to tell yourself that 5.5 years is a very low sentence for four bank robberies. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is what the prosecution requested - five years.]] There's a 12-year-old threat to robbery... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Public Prosecutor's Office has requested five years.]] ...and for using a dangerous tool - up to 15 years old. And here for four robberies, the penalty is almost three times shorter. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But the prosecution asked for it.]] The Member here says that the prosecution has requested such a low sentence. I understand that this was the 2013 proposal. So the question is, Minister, do we have any idea what kind of punishment the D.A.'s office has requested, and whether after that sentence... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Jak is responsible for rehabilitation in prison.]] ...there was an appeal. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are responsible for rehabilitation in prison, not the court.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u261	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I wanted to ask what shortcomings were established in the activities of the security company, which secured the final of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid in Gdańsk. Was the company prepared to undertake such tasks? Has the Typhoon security agency met the conditions - this is the most important - necessary to secure such an event? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u263	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will ask you what control measures have been taken in the Typhoon Protection Agency, which, as you know, was involved in the protection of this event Mon. The Great Orchestra of Christmas Help in Gdansk. I think the important question is whether the agency's selection process for the protection of WOŚP in Gdańsk was controlled at all. I ask this, of course, because the fact that this event is so unprofessionally protected is an understandable social outrage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u265	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Melak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Get out of here, man, we remember that.]] I have the following questions. Didn't the concert of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid in Gdansk, during which the attack took place, have the status of a mass event? And what conditions must the organizer meet, such an event organizing, securing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u267	Mr Waldemar Andzel, please, the Law and Justice will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The murder of Mr.Paul Adamowicz is a great tragedy and is condemned. Minister, what are the estimates of the number of people participating in the Grand Orchestra finale in Gdansk? Who was responsible for letting people into the party? Have the organizers determined the number? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u269	Thank you. Mrs Maria Zuba, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In the context of securing this event, which took place in Gdansk, I wanted to ask: Was it confirmed in the course of the ongoing investigation, whether the concert of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid in Gdansk was organized on the basis of the rules of the Road Traffic Law, with which there are fewer restrictions related to safety requirements, and could the organizers use these regulations to organise this event in Gdansk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u271	Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u272	We know that the services of the Polish state responded very quickly, in a manner, you can say exemplary, which today also confirms... [[Voice from the room: on Twitter.]] ...by the representatives and persons responsible for the operation of these services. I have questions for you. At what stage are proceedings to clarify the circumstances of the assassination of President Adamowicz, as well as the regularity or irregularities in securing this event? At what stage are these proceedings? When can we expect them to end? Because we didn't get that kind of information. Oriental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u273	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister! High Seym! With regard to security agencies, Typhoons have already been asked questions. The Minister spoke about the inspection carried out in this company. I also have a question about this company. Did Typhoon company have information that President Adamowicz and other important people would take part in the final of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u275	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mass events require special and numerous protection. So I want to ask you questions. How many bodyguards were involved in the final of the Grand Orchestra of Christmas Aid in Gdansk? Were they sufficient forces and means to ensure the safety of the participants in the final? Did the persons working in the Agency have appropriate training and work on the basis of guidelines, procedures for securing such events? And can it be confirmed at this stage of the procedure that underage persons were involved in securing the finals of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid in Gdansk? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u277	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u278	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! After the attack on President Adam... [[Paul.]] ...president Adamowicz Paul in many press articles came to the attention that the aggressor had a badge... [[Voice from the room: He didn't.]] ...and he wasn't on the press list at the same time. The authors of various press articles asked questions about how the poster with the inscription "media... [[Voice from the room: He didn't, he didn't.]] ...has received an aggressor... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: He did not have a badge.]] ...and how Stefan W. got on stage with the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. [[He didn't have a badge, sir.]] Minister, can you confirm and on what grounds that Stefan W. had during the break-in? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A badge that says "media"? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: He didn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u279	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u280	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The assassination of President Adamowicz is a huge tragedy that should not be politically exploited. There's been a great evil. Let it be a moment of breakthrough. Let's be people who don't just hear, but listen. Let's argue, but let's also support each other. In a constructive way, let's determine the cause of the crime. Let's make sure that a crime like this never happens again. I have questions for the ministers: Has the head of security of the event been charged yet? What's his investigation about? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u281	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! As a Warsaw Member, I would like to ask about the Warsaw thread of the investigation into the murder of the dead. President Adamowicz. [[Voice from the Chamber: Warsaw Member.]] What was the purpose of the unsub's stay in Warsaw? Are the details of his stay known? Was he approaching the Presidential Palace? [[That's embarrassing.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Could the potential threat also affect the President or other key people in the country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u283	Thank you. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, on 16 January 2017, tragic events took place in Kalisz. A mad, crazy man killed a 60-year-old man. He stabbed him in front of the Kalisz railway station. That man worked there. Ladies and gentlemen, this man, this murdered man, was the father of my son-in-law. He was my father-in-law. Ladies and gentlemen, please remember those events in 2017, which were then spoken of hatred, how certain organizations manifested. Ladies and gentlemen, it never occurred to me that this murder that took place in Kalisz was connected to my person, with my function. Therefore, I appeal to you: for God's sake, do not say that the events that took place in Gdansk were political because they did not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean they didn't have one?]] [[The voice from the room: They had it!]] [[The voice from the room: The killer himself said it.]] I could say the same thing, but I'm not saying it, because then there was an attack of a madman in Kalisz and then in Gdansk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u285	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that everyone in this room has sincere intentions to explain all the circumstances of this tragedy, the death of Paul Adamowicz. I hope that this will not be just an opportunity for some to have a political languish. I have a question for the Minister of Justice. In the media, after the death of Paul Adamowicz, much information appeared. Very significant was the article from January 21 on one of the portals, on the portal Onet, whose title is already significant: the dark side of Gdańsk. There's been a lot of disturbing information about the Tricity. In view of this situation, is the Minister considering, for the sake of the investigation, moving him out of the area covered by the jurisdiction of the regional prosecutor's office in Gdansk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u287	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! It is very good that we have this information today about the investigation into the murder of President Adamowicz. It's very good that we're trying to explain all the circumstances surrounding this murder. But it is also worth mentioning, High Izbo, the circumstances that took place before this murder, how much encouragement there was in public space for people like Stefan W. It is also worth mentioning how the state reacted to these cases: political death certificates mentioned here, smoking puppets, presented gallows. I would therefore like to ask the ministers today to prepare in writing how much information the police received from the prosecutor's office since 2015, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. Since you're in charge, requests to pursue these kinds of hater events or similar events. [[Voice from the room: What about before?]] What percentage of them were hunted and investigated? In the event of what percentage of them were denied such an investigation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u289	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ministers! High Izbo! I have a question because Stefan W. screamed from the stage that he was tortured in prison. There's been some doubt lately. Hence my question: Was he undergoing electroshock therapy? Does this type of therapy apply to inmates with such diseases as Stefan W.? If so, what is the scale of such a phenomenon? The second question is actually addressed to all countries, both to the government side and to the opposition. Are you able to support such a solution in order to introduce a new provision into the Code of Offences, to quizz A new misdemeanor? The point is that people who write all sorts of bad things, wrong, heiter comments, are just being punished by police fines so that you don't have to start big cases by prosecutors who would be later relieved of responsibility. The idea is to treat such small, but unfortunately existing haters in the same way as drivers who exceed speed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They get a ticket and that's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u291	Thank you, sir. The question will be asked by Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u292	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On January 13th, a terrible thing happened: the president died... [[Voice from the hall: Gdansk.]] ... Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk. Death is an extremely dramatic and extremely limitless situation. As a doctor, I meet with her very often, and as a student, I saw such a sign on the prosthetology that death is happy to help the living. I wish that death would help the living. This led to a gap in the law. And I have this question for your ministers: Is the introduction of new system regulations for those who have been subject to the so-called regulations being considered? protective isolation and whether, under these new arrangements [[♪ The bell ♪]] The prison directors will be able to direct...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u293	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u294	...persons for research and treatment in closed outpatient facilities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u295	I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The ministers have provided information from which it is intended that the actions that have been taken are all right, but, ladies and gentlemen, they are not. They're not, and you have to say it openly. We have threats that a trusted person informs us of. So? They've been questioned, they've been sent information, that's all. The paperwork's fine, but life has gone its way, something hasn't been seen. We've been informed that Stefan W. is walking around armed with a knife. Question: "What has been done with this, Minister, has anyone gone to the trouble to see what it looks like in practice?" In the papers, he was exemplary, but after all, these fatal wounds were incredibly effective. Question: "Why are these skills?" There's a change in the perception of the world surrounded by the inmate. Question: "What are the reasons for this change?" We don't know that today. Minister, I would also like to ask: Is it that the police, the police, the guards, the army, are prohibited [[♪ The bell ♪]] participation in the feast...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u297	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u298	... The Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, strengthens security Or lowers it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u299	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are all shocked by the murder of President Gdansk. The political class has a huge responsibility to explain all the circumstances of this tragedy. We owe it to the nearest ones, we owe it to the Gdansk people, we owe it to the Poles. We need to clarify all the circumstances that led to this tragedy, both directly and indirectly. Today you say you will fight hate speech. The test for your credibility is whether or not you'll call Jack Kurski off as president of public television, because I'm gonna say, "Jacek Kurski has to go." And the question to Minister Ziobra: What information channels do the convicted have access to in prisons? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u301	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It just so happened that I will continue with Mr Meysztowicz's question. The murderer's mom in one of the interviews said: The last year was in Gdansk-Material, a semi-open facility. I suspect that's where he's been watching the news on the news channels and making himself reluctant to go to the PO. Ministers of the present government, if this were to happen a few years ago when you did not rule, the greatest thunder from the clear sky would fall on public media, on television, on radio, the names of journalists would be blacklisted every day: they sow hatred, lie and manipulate, speak half-truths and truths. Why aren't you responding now? Tonight, we're gonna give this TV, from which there's a stream of hatred, 1,200 million. I ask you gentlemen, in the context of this tragedy that has taken place [[♪ The bell ♪]] She did, they reacted...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u303	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u304	...for the operation of public television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u305	I would ask you to ask Ms Krystyna Skowronska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u306	I wanted to ask the Prime Minister a question because it was the Prime Minister who should answer whether his ministers had passed the exam. I am directing this question, and I think the Prime Minister will answer this question. Minister Brudziński. Minister, how did you account for your services? How many cops were protecting the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help? After all, you and your community knew there were gonna be parties like this. In the event of a regular match, the state bets on the whole stadium. And in the event of a party in every city where the servants were? How many police officers, how many police officers have protected such gatherings? To the Minister of Justice. Minister, what consequences have you had on your employees about this situation? We all sympathize with Gdansk, we all sympathize with our wife, the widow of the deceased, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the state should...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u307	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u308	...to answer us, first of all the Prime Minister... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u309	The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u310	...political responsibility. Your marshal won't yell at me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Minister Brudziński's statements, and in particular in the questions of Mr PiS, there was a thread that, in fact, a security company could be burdened with this situation. Not at all, Minister. I will recall the words of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish that this is a huge political defeat of the rulers. Unfortunately, that's because if you couldn't react properly to... When there were Smolensk monthlys, you were able to pass a special bill to protect the party party, and you brought thousands of police officers to Warsaw. Here you couldn't predict that this was the case. Minister Ziobro said that the Polish state would draw the right conclusions, that it hopes so. And you draw such conclusions from yourself? Are you pulling them out? Do you see what you're doing? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u312	The question is asked by Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, PSL-ED.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A question for Minister Brudziński. Minister! Your actions after this crime deserve respect and respect, and here actually chapeau bass, here I have nothing to say. But the question is, why just now? Why were you not the only one who did this for three years, but rather the opposite? And if, at the moment, you want to look for authors of hate speech, perpetrators, of course morals, you have an excellent opportunity every day. Just turn on government television, Mr Cejrowski's speech - I don't know if the word "pan" is even there - which compares Adamowicz's funeral to Stalin's funeral. Who did Adamowicz murder? How can you compare this man to one of the greatest criminals in the history of the world? Mr. Janecki's editors, Mr. Wildstein, etc. One more thing, because time is running out. I would have thought, Minister, that in this respect [[♪ The bell ♪]] You actually have a lot of work to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u315	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! The information provided by you shows that the most likely cause of President Adamowicz's death is the act of a mentally unstable person. This is very likely, and much more so than the responsibility suggested by some Members of the Law and Justice to organize the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid. But in that case... You mentioned this, Minister Brudziński - now your question - that you responded very quickly to other threats of this kind appearing online, and I therefore express my great respect and confirm it. Two weeks later, however, you ignored the actions of another man, about whom you yourself wrote that he was not in his head, or the madman who threatened this time against the Jewish people. My question to you is: Do you also feel responsible for your words on Twitter that de facto dare or may dare such a kind - I do not hesitate to use this word - wrong people to dangerous, dangerous [[♪ The bell ♪]] for Poland and Poles activities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u316	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask a question to Minister Brudziński, who presented the information here. You stressed how you got involved with the government after the assassination of President Adamowicz. And why didn't you do anything to counteract it? You didn't respond to violence. For example, the venom of public media, television and newspapers, which is an instrument of hatred and oppression for people, should be limited. Only government television is available in Polish prisons, I stress this. You also stress that the security company has suffered consequences. And why did you forget to mention that you told the police not to protect the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why did you do that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u318	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Adam Korol, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Ziobra. You told us the whole story of Stefan W. being in prison. We heard that in a rather short time he was transferred from prison to prison. I have a question: Why was the bandit, the perpetrator of four bank robberies, the last part of his punishment in Gdańsk-Morning, in a half-open facility? This is very interesting information. Question two. There was information in the media area whether it was information from the Prison Service that the prisoner was in a one-man cell. Does that mean he was in solitary, which means he was dangerous? In all this we also forgot to tell about Stefan W.'s mother, who is also very badly hurt in this situation. Why didn't the mother's warnings about her son be answered? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u320	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Sowa, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! President Adamowicz did not kill the applicable law. President Adamowicz was killed by a conscious, well-programmed man who, right after the murder, publicly gave the political motivation that accompanied him in the assassination of President Adamowicz. Unfortunately, with the great support of the so-called. public television you raise fanatics ready to attack, destroy, and as it turns out, even kill political opponents. I'm sure you'll be very appalled, but I don't know if you're aware that one of these hateful people has recently been decorated by Prime Minister Morawiecki. He was appointed by the Lesser Poland Voivode to the council of anti-communist opposition activists. He is also an assistant to the Sejm. And you were doing it exactly a week after Minister Ziobra's attorney's office gave up the procedure for sowing hate speech. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You reward your fanatics because you have them in your ranks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u322	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The death of Paweł Adamowicz made many Poles aware of how noble Paweł Adamowicz was, how great his merits to Gdansk were. At the same time, this death showed us an incredible contrast. It is about how it was presented by public television, which has the statutory task of respecting the Christian system of values, showing the diversity of phenomena fairly, presenting diversity of views, and pursuing the democratic needs of local communities. How many times on TV was it shown how it was dragged by a plane, behind which there was some scandalous company - then it was not known that there was such a thing - to assimilate it with some scandals? Prime Minister and Ministers! You have all the instruments in your hands to change this television, which is why I ask you: Is it true that you simply enjoy unchristian television, uncircumcised, non-obvious, hate-sowning, hating, that this is your TV that suits you, and that's why you won't change it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u324	I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have listened attentively to the ministers' speeches and I have a question for Minister Ziobra. Minister Ziobro gave a very detailed description of the duration of the prisoner's stay, a dangerous prisoner, in prisons. And what do we hear? Transferred from prison to prison: Sztum, Bydgoszcz, Malbork, Gdansk. That's one thing. The media reports that during these five years, he spent two years in total isolation. Are these rehabilitation methods? It's hard to blame him for changing. And the other thing. Three people reported Stefan W. as dangerous and a threat to society. I have a question: Did the current laws allow us to avoid this crime? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u326	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It happened that today the president of the city of Poznań, Mr Jacek Jaskowiak, was in the hospital. The right-wing portal DoRze made this information available, and underneath it a wave of hating and hating against the president of the city of Poznań spilled out. My question is whether, in view of what happened today, the prosecution will begin an investigation into the people who presented this hat on this portal? My second question concerns the alleged whereabouts of President Adamowicz's murderer in Warsaw. We learned about this after finding a ticket for the Gdańsk - Warsaw flight. I think most people in their history, somewhere in their e-mails, a ticket like that. Is it to be assumed, therefore, that each of us may have ever intended to attack the Presidential Palace? 'Cause unfortunately, surveillance doesn't show that something like this could happen around the palace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u328	Thank you. The question is asked by Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u329	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! This question has already appeared many times today in this Chamber, but I am asking you for information about the decisions and actions you have carried out after receiving information from the mother of the perpetrator of this cruel murder, which probably, knowing him best, most as her son, has taken seriously his words about the plans to commit a spectacular crime. Ministers, you spoke about this in your information, but none of the ministers responded to the doubts and did not answer the question about what actions were taken and what had not been done, which might have been abandoned. Because unfortunately, it was not possible to protect and protect President Paweł Adamowicz's life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u330	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Michał Stasiński, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Polish experts in the fight against terrorism indicate that the case of Stefan W. is a typical example of political radicalisation of a common criminal in the course of criminal punishment, resulting in a politically motivated terrorist attack. The evidence of this political radicalization is in the Prison Service documents, the police documents. Are the services ready to diagnose and prevent such situations in the future? I'll give you a hint, Minister, where to look for these threats. These threats are on the side of extremely fascist, racist, xenophobic environments such as those in Wrocław or Białystok. Yes, in this Bialystok, Minister Ziobro, where you stopped an ongoing investigation of neo-Nazis, and in this Bialystok, where the police removed the best officers from conducting this investigation. We hope that the next few months by the end of your term of office will be an opportunity for you to show, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That your three-year omissions want to cover the right and effective... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...activity in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u332	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, the question to the absent Prime Minister. In 2016, the then Prime Minister Beata Szydło eliminated the Anti-Discrimination Council, believing that the actions of this Council were pointless. Is it not worth restoring this counsel? At the same time, in November, the head of MSWiA Mariusz Błaszczak dissolved the task force. Protection of Human Rights, which includes: He conducted a series of training courses for police officers on hate speech. The Minister Zieliński sitting next to you has resigned from the manuals for police officers to identify crimes motivated by hatred and discrimination. In view of this situation that has happened, and in view of the whole discussion on hate speech, have you not considered it, or perhaps has already made such a decision, to bring both the Panel back. Protection of Human Rights in the Police, as well as these manuals, maybe improved, taking into account more training for police officers on this issue. I'd ask for an answer like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u334	The question is asked by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Before Stefan W. went to prison, he lived for 20 years, grew up and grew up in Gdansk. I ask the question: What help did local government institutions legally have to help families, especially families with a sick child, poor education, institutions such as school, psychology and pedagogical counseling, social assistance institutions, health care institutions, educational organizations, etc. have given to the family Stefan W.? How can we assess the value and effectiveness of the aid that has been provided, if any, to this family? And my second question. Did the organizers of this tragic event even consult with the police on the conditions and correctness of its security with the help of the Typhoon agency? Who accepted the conditions applied to ensure the safety of this event? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u336	Thank you. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u337	Minister Ziobro! Minister Brudziński! What struck me in your speeches is the lack of any reflection, any self-criticism. In my opinion, ministers, I am sorry. There's been a tragedy. [[Applause]] Or maybe they could have done more, been better able to diagnose, treat, be more alert, and cooperate better? One of the messengers tweeted that the PiS behaved properly, but I feel like the PiS hasn't behaved properly for years. I would like to remind you that on 20 December 2015, Mr PiS tweeted: If a public officer gets involved in WIAP, let him report on discharge the next day. Why didn't you react then, Minister Brudziński? Why didn't you cancel those words? Where was the police? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where was the army? Where was she... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...fire guard? Why weren't you working? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u338	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro. [[Mr Szczerb could have used that time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Continuing my speech, which I have the pleasure of presenting to the High House, it was about... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Answers to questions.]] ...fate in penitentiary... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Answers to questions now.]] ...convicted, perpetrator of a tragic, horrible murder - after quite detailed reporting of his punishment, I would now like to move on to a case related to an investigation that is also of interest to you. The investigation was initiated on 14 January 2019 but the investigative activities were already undertaken during the event, immediately after the murder which took place at night on 13 January 2019 in Gdansk. The prosecutors who took part in various steps to protect the evidence went to the scene. There was a whole group of prosecutors involved in the investigation. There's been activities all night, witnesses' interviews, sightings of the scene. Two prosecutors were doing their job at the scene. Together with the police officers, they secured all possible traces and evidence. Another prosecutor was posted to the University Clinical Centre in Gdańsk at the Gdańsk Medical University, where the victim Mr.Paweł Adamowicz was transported. The District Attorney's Office in Gdansk coordinated the ongoing investigative activities, constantly in contact with experts from the Gdansk Medical Institute of the Medical University of Gdansk, with the aim of securing, using expert expertise necessary to professionally secure all evidence and carry out investigative activities as quickly as possible. The prosecution's actions on a good case ended at an hour. 3:30 a.m. Many witnesses' personal data have been established and many evidence activities have been carried out, among others. By securing a Kendar military knife with a blade length of 14.5 cm, the perpetrator's blood and urine for toxicological research, four recordings of events from unbiased witnesses of the concert, copies of documents in the form of a service contract during the event. In the apartments of the perpetrator and family, because it was the operations carried out in different places six units of computers were secured, four phones, pneumatic weapons, so-called. A windbreaker. Phones were stopped, records were obtained from the prison, and a number of other documents were obtained that were necessary in the course of a thorough, thorough investigation. On 14 January the perpetrator was accused that on 13 January 2019 in Gdansk, acting in the intention of direct deprivation of life of Paweł Adamowicz, as a result of motivation worthy of special condemnation, he stabbed several times with a blade length of 14.5 cm standing Paweł Adamowicz, causing deep wounds, stab wounds to the chest and abdomen, resulting in the death of the victim, i.e. for an act of art. 148 § Point 2 (3) of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 64 § 1 of the Criminal Code. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But the answers to questions, not...]] The suspect didn't confess to the crime he committed. In a complex explanation, he refused to refer to the incident and the circumstances associated with it. The explanations he made concerned the question of his imprisonment, the proceedings concerning robberies, the grievances related to his sense of injustice, and his judgment in an extremely unfair manner. He also stated what he was doing immediately after he left the prison, namely, he flew to Warsaw immediately. It was under the Presidential Palace and in hotels where casinos are located. From the findings, it also appears from his explanations that he was considering entering the Presidential Palace. The suspect was questioned again on 28 January 2019. During this hearing - there were questions about it, now I can answer - among others. He said he was watching all the TV channels because it's not true... Here the question was whether it was said that only one television channel could be viewed in prisons and that it was public television. [[Available...]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No TVN24?]] [[Voice from the room: I asked about information...]] That's not true. Don't manipulate me. He watched all the shows... [[Voice from the room: Informational.]] ...televisions of various stations that are available, and in public space there was also an interview with one of the co-inmates with him - you can verify what he said there. On the other hand, investigative activities are being carried out and as details are established, you will be informed of all findings. On 14 January, the prosecutor sent a request to the Gdansk-South District Court in Gdansk to apply to a suspected preventive measure in the form of temporary detention for a period of 3 months. On the same day, the court accepted the same request. A number of evidence has been secured, and I'm not going to exchange it anymore, because more evidence has been secured every day. At the moment, more than 140 witnesses have been questioned, some of whom have been interrogated many times. Biological traces from Stefan W were revealed on the guarded knife. It was determined when and where the suspect bought the knife and the gas in which the store. Appropriate action has been taken to secure further evidence to confirm this. Security cameras covering the scenes, the surroundings of the scene. From the urine and blood of the suspect, it appears that no alcohol, narcotics or so-called drugs have been exposed. The boosters. All medical records related to the suspect's stay in the prisons where he was sentenced to imprisonment were obtained, as well as one of those medical records where he was diagnosed. All this documentation has been handed over to the experts. That's the truth. Whether or not the unsub was illegible at the time of the act, whether or not his sanity was partially excluded, ultimately they would be heard by the experts, so they were immediately, still the night I mentioned, the first, called by the prosecutors. Currently, explanations of the suspect and other signals that the prosecution receives in this case are verified from various witnesses or persons who provide explanations. Activities are underway to determine the course of the suspect's stay in Warsaw. It was requested to check the hotels he designated, as well as to secure surveillance from the Presidential Palace. Actions have been carried out to determine whether the perpetrator was in possession of an identifier bearing the inscription "media', and this fact has been ruled out on the basis of the testimony of witnesses and genetic tests carried out on the protected identifier. Further procedural activities are currently underway, including witness hearings, testing of secure IT equipment. Surveillance records are secured and analysed in subsequent locations where it can be expected that the unsub's presence may have been recorded. The various versions of the investigation are, of course, verified, because this is the role of the prosecution to accept in each investigation a number of versions that must be verified - starting with the one that seems most likely in the light of the findings of the case, through others that are also taken equally seriously. So there's the tested version that worked alone, there's the tested version that worked together with other people whose identity can still be established, there's the tested version that was persuaded to do so by third parties. A number of hypothesises have been made, and the task of the prosecution is to verify, confirm or exclude them at the moment, while I cannot talk about the details of this case because the prosecutors who are investigating the case have stated that certain information, due to the good of the investigation, should not yet be presented. I can also say that, apart from the main investigation, which, as generally as possible, I have discussed, there are two further proceedings - they are taking place in connection with the assessment of the correctness of security safeguards for persons participating in the event on 13 January 2019 and in connection with the submission of false statements, which have been highly promulgated by police and prosecutors. He was charged with a suspect who, according to the investigative authorities, not only gave false testimony but also urged other persons to submit it and hindered the conduct of the proceedings. It is one of the people involved in the protection of this undertaking, acting as a leader. This is related to an incident in which a tragic assassination took place. As far as specific issues are concerned, I will not discuss them at the moment either. Let me just add that, of course, the threads related to the operation of both the Prison Service and the Police are also being studied. The prosecution independently collects evidence concerning the conduct of both of these services at the time when Stefan W. was under their supervision or supervision. Of course, there is also a question of ensuring, as I mentioned, a requirement of security during the organisation of a mass event, and here there are also some nettles, versions that are verified. The findings so far have shown that this is the perpetrator, i.e. Suspected of false testimony, temporarily arrested by the court, recruited employees to work. The vast majority of employees did not have any training in the protection of persons and property - here I will answer the questions that were asked - no certificates were required from them at all, e.g. No criminal record was required of them. It turned out that people were also employed, with a judgment of total incapacity for work - this was also stated. A number of minors who did not have sufficient age to provide the basis for protective measures also participated in securing the event. In any case, the prosecution conducts a multi-track procedure that will explain all aspects of the case. On the other hand, in answer to the specific questions that have been raised here by you, I would first of all like to draw attention to some changes of a systemic nature. It is difficult to agree that the Prison Service - from today's point of view, according to the knowledge we have - had legal instruments and tools that would enable it to effectively prevent Stefan W. from leaving the prison. Well, in any law-abiding state - that is just the law, and that is the essence of the rule of law - the director of the prison service cannot stop the perpetrator ending his imprisonment, to make sure that he does not go free. This is borne out by the case mentioned by me, Trynkiewicz, who also left, as you remember, during your reign. He had to leave because the modes of the bill, which had just been recently passed, did not work quickly enough to prevent him from doing so. I will remind you, however, that when the Code of Criminal Enforcement was born, in 1997 - I also had the opportunity to speak at that time in terms of the legal standards created, but also later critically about the liberal solutions of the Code of Criminal Enforcement and the Penal Code in terms of safeguards - I would not want to pass on responsibility and remind you here, but who was in favour of a mild, liberal approach to such measures. It was certainly not an environment that was associated with Law and Justice today. So if you're looking for holes in the system adopted in 1997, it's definitely this system... [[Voice from the room: You're in charge.]] ...holes, holes as well as during your reign... [[All you have to do is obey the law, Minister.]] ...was passed at a certain time by a certain political majority. Therefore, you need to know the facts. [[Voice in the room: You're in control...]] If you're talking, you're appealing for... [[Voice from the room: Białystok.]] ...don't spread hate... [[Voice from the room: You have to obey the law.]] ...it's important that hate is a lie, therefore... [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You changed the law on the prosecution. You have full control of the D.A.'s office.]] ...I would encourage all of you to stick to the truth, [[Applause]] because the truth can protect us from hate if we rely on facts that are also related to responsibility. [[The fullness of authority is the fullness of responsibility.]] The law is broken, and this is also stated by outstanding experts, as well as professors... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: After all, you have changed this law for 3 years.]] ... psychiatry - here I have the handwriting of one of these, I hope to take with me and show you company... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 3 years to change.]] ... Polish Society of Court Psychiatry, addressed to the Ministry of Health - show...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u340	Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u341	...that, unfortunately, the system is actually against this type of culprit, as it was once dimpled against the culprits of the type of Trynkiewicz. And that is why Prime Minister Morawiecki asked all parliamentary clubs to meet so that we could draw conclusions and change this system, a system which was once adopted and defended by certain communities. I don't want to get involved here in the issue of responsibility shifts for the fact that such a system was functioning... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But you have a responsibility.]] ...and I don't want to talk about a certain climate of work on the Penal Code, the Enforcement Penal Code. I also wanted to tell you about the second aspect of this case. There is a question, often also criticism in the case of some other government proposals, for example. tightening criminal liability, the fact that criminal law doesn't matter, sharpness doesn't matter, because it only matters inevitability. If so, I would like to ask you on this occasion how inevitability could have affected such a determined man who wanted to be caught in a red-handed act, who finally wanted to declare it, scream against the whole world, and wanted to become famous for committing the most cruel crime of murder. How can inevitability scare away here? And how can it scare away the length of punishment? Well, she could scare off. If the D.A. at a time when I didn't supervise the D.A.'s office demanded a much higher level of punishment, it might be that punishment... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But where was he rehabilitated?]] ...would effectively isolate the perpetrator who could still be behind bars for years, and should be in jail because he committed a very serious crime, multiple armed robbery, led to a health disorder of women working in banking facilities. So... [[Voice from the room: Why did you appeal to let Fisherman go faster?]] Mr Nitras, you are screaming and I do not know what has been heard here. But you're screaming this to interrupt my speech to drown out words... [[I'm talking to you. I'm asking you a question. No, that's not true.]] ...about facts that are unpleasant to you. But it's about the culture of discussion and freedom from hatred in this room, which I would appeal for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will also be a proof of the right culture to allow each of us to speak our own lines. [[Voice from the Chamber: The fullness of power is the fullness of responsibility.]] [[The full culture is Rybak in Oświęcim showed.]] Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that an effective isolation penalty, which is a long-term detention of a dangerous criminal in prison, could be effective. If the Polish criminal policy were the same as the Law and Justice Club proposed when changing criminal codes... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But 3 years...]] ...strengthening the criminal responsibility in this area, when the state rejected our proposals, perhaps the perpetrator... [[Voice from the courtroom: Time, Marshal.]] ...would be sentenced not to five years, but to 10 or 15 years... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 3 years you are introducing this. So?]] ...as he would have been punished in many other European countries. All you have to do is look at the penalties in Germany, [[Applause]] England, Hungary, Slovakia for robbery. [[The voice from the room: Stefan W. is the result of your rehabilitation.]] You would find that Poland is a country that is extremely mild in the case of such dangerous crimes. Mrs Pihowicz, you are supposed to be a lawyer, as you may say, that the adoption of the law... ...in this respect it is possible. The law doesn't work backwards. [[You're insulting people.]] A change of law, which I hope we will carry out, because it is ready in the government, is prepared her project... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: He was rehabilitated by what prison?]] ...couldn't work backwards to Mr. Stefan, and then, unfortunately, we didn't have an impact on the dimension of criminal policy. I would also like to refer to your other statements. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[You will be responsible for this, Minister. I'm not surprised at your nerves.]] Surely the call to limit hate speech is right. I'm signing them. I'm sure there's a lot of hate, and this Seym also proves it today. This speech of hatred begins with manipulation, by denying the facts, by giving false statements, and has its continuation in the form of escalation of such behaviours on different sides of the political scene. [[Fisherman.]] But if you are so meticulous in giving various examples of what happened in the recent period, which escalated, in your opinion, the speech of hatred, I will remind you how the Civic Platform club reacted to the statements that it was necessary to kill and disembowel Jarosław Kaczyński. Wouldn't this man, when he said those words, be vice-president of the parliamentary club here in Parliament? How did the Civic Platform react? Has a notice been made to the D.A.'s office? Did the prosecution, who was under the Civic Platform at the time, initiate any action, conduct proceedings against someone who called for... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] ...to kill and eviscerate? [[Applause]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Szubienica?]] And I must tell you that I would like to correct Mrs Pomaska's statement, because she is not telling the truth about the factography. Well, the first political assassination took place in Łódź, when a psychopath, although, as psychiatrists pointed out, fully sounded, among others. the appeal of your colleagues from the Parliamentary Courts... [[The first political assassination took place in 1922, Narutowicz.]] ...and decided to murder Jarosław Kaczyński. He didn't make it. His testimony, which I have in front of me and can quote, indicated that he wanted to murder, above all, Jarosław Kaczyński... [[Time's up, Marshal. We're asking you to...]] ...wanted to murder the speaker by the way, but he didn't because he was afraid of protecting Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Voice from the court: Marshal, do your job.]] He was under the cross, he was almost at his fingertips, he wanted to shoot, but he was afraid he'd be shot. These are facts that must also be recalled in an honest debate... [[Will you extend your time to all of us, Marshal?]] ...to be aware of the proportions, to be aware of the proportions of what happened. And I must also say to you that the court, the independent court in Łódź, during the time of your government... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: corrected.]] ...confirmed that a former member of the Civic Platform committed murder, political murder, that he acted out of political motivation. And it's the court, not me, not the law and justice colleagues, not even the prosecution that ran it, the independent court... [[Voice from the courtroom: An independent court.]] ...founded that there was the first political crime in Poland and committed by her citizen, not mentally ill and former member of your political party. [[Marshal, the Minister is out of line and time has passed.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you're talking about fighting hate speech, I'm signing with two hands... [[Voice from the room: Insolence.]] ...but then we have to meet, and we have to have such an honest conversation, not manipulation... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You have developed a campaign of consent for the hate campaign.]] ...in which we will determine what criteria to apply, so that they are equal to everyone. Why do you want some to be chased and, on the other hand, you protest when some people demand to be prosecuted, e.g. in connection with the art of the curse, during which not only the feelings of believers are treated in contempt, but this is the sowing of hatred, mischief? Can you deny it? I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about the death certificates? And the gallows? You could've reacted.]] And at the end of this play, the actress collects money for what? The murder of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Voices from the hall: No, lies.]] [[Voice from the room: Have you seen it?]] Well, such information is given in the media in any case. So in one word... [[Did you see that?]] [[That's not true, you're lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u342	Minister, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u343	Ladies and gentlemen! It's worth talking about, but it can't be like... [[Why are you so nervous?]] ...that you create a false image of things, you create false symmetry. They seem to be all saints, and there are only those responsible for the speech of hatred. I am now abstracting from what will later be the findings of the prosecution and the court, whether real speech or aggression on the Polish political scene had an impact on the actions of this man who committed murder in the case of Mr. Adamowicz, but certainly each of these cases which... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You could have responded in any of these proceedings and you didn't.]] ...it is linked to the aggression that is associated with contempt for politicians, it deserves to be considered. On the other hand, the curse, to match the pack, the names... [[It's not about.]] ...which fall regularly when some Members leave this building... [[Marshal, the Minister has crossed time and subject.]] ...and on CODE demonstrations... [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] ...confirmations: you're going to jail, that's a compliment against the vulgarity and insults we hear many times. And often in your company these vulgarities fall... [[Voice from the hall: And this is the culture, one to turn off, and the other...]] ...so be honest. With this drama, draw conclusions, be honest in this debate. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm happy to comment on other things, but you're very... [[Voice in the O.R.: Answer the questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. I recommend to you... [[Why didn't you treat Stefan W.? He wasn't on his meds.]] ...reading the article. 179 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which indicate that I can agree to the extension of the speech, but, Minister, please proceed to the end. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Please answer the questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u345	The presentation involves, touches the essence of the subject, shows that there is a problem. [[Game in the O.R.]] I agree. I believe that hate speech must be eliminated...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u346	Mrs Skowronska, do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u347	...but it must be made clear that all matters, whether they are painful for one or the other, whether they are an expression of hatred towards one or the other, must be treated the same. We need to meet and discuss how to treat these situations... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: corrected, Marshal.]] ...because unfortunately we have dozens of examples, including your participation, of the hateful behaviors that the prosecution would have to engage in if it were to take your appeals seriously. The prosecution cannot replace the principles of parliamentary debate culture. [[Applause]] He must not enter here and deal with the statements of each Member. It cannot stand every moment on the manifestations of the CODE that you normally visit, and every time it takes note of the names, vulgarisms and threats that fall to politicians on most of the right side of the political scene. [[What are you saying?]] We need to think about how to change these standards, but honestly, not use this situation as a mace. [[Voice from the room: Start with each other.]] I'm also sending you to analyze the press, e.g. The Gazeta Wyborcza or TVN-u... [[Voice from the hall: And television.]] ...as they reported after the murder, as the court stated, the first political assassination in Poland, the political murder that was carried out on Mr. Rosiaku. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, we're talking about...]] What did the Gazet Wyborcza then call for? To fight hate speech or on the contrary, she pointed to the guilty of this crime and where? What do you think? Read it. Reading is incredibly inspiring if you collide it with what we hear now. [[But he said it from that scene.]] Yeah, hate speech is bad, hate is bad at all, and it needs to be limited. Not always the law... [[Fisherman.]] ...punishment is an ideal tool to solve these problems, because there is a limit... [[You opened the Fisherman.]] ...which must be put between political dispute and hatred. But if we involve criminal law, it has to be equal. Justice must be blind, not just like you want it to attack one side. [[Voice from the room: What about the Fisherman?]] If there is such a common position that the prosecution should treat every form of hate speech equally, it is very good. 'Cause I'm gonna tell you last but not least that I've done some hate speech searches, violent acts, threats in the Warsaw State's Attorney's Office. And what did it turn out to be? That out of 400 cases of 300 cases, there are cases in which law and justice politicians are victims, and 100 cases in which victims are from the Platform... [[Applause]] This shows the scale of aggression and to whom it is applied. [[Because you're dying.]] So let's not prejudice what caused this man's murder and motive for action, whether it was a mental illness, delusion, whether it was a premeditated act, whether it was an inspiration of third parties, or whether it was a speech of hatred. That's gonna prove it to the court in the investigation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u348	Minister, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u349	And for sure... [[Voice from the room: TV propaganda.]] ...it's worth hitting your chest and everyone should hit their chest and draw conclusions. But this discussion does not lead to good conclusions if you use manipulation, lies and interrupt the statements of another party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u350	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Joachim Brudziński. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the courtroom: corrected, Marshal.]] Ladies, you weren't mentioned by name. [[Voice from the room: I was.]] [[Voice from the room: My name was mentioned.]] [[Voice from the hall: You will ask the Minister.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Minister misunderstood my statement and I would like to correct it.]] [[Like they weren't?]] [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Your Marshal, the correction was complex...]] Minister, you're welcome. [[What, you're not gonna get a corrigendum?]] [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Minister, my statement has been misunderstood and I have the right to correct it.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, the minister mentioned my name.]] Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, if you would really listen and not disturb others... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I listened very carefully and my speech was misunderstood, and I have the right to correct it.]] ...you might have heard that your name wasn't there. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Minister... [[What a cheeky woman, just...]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I have the right to rectify.]] Don't yell at me. [[Who said that? I hear you're a lawyer...]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Minister misunderstood me.]] [[Voice from the room: Water soda...]] [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Minister misunderstood me and I want to correct my statement.]] Ladies and gentlemen, take five. [[A voice from the hall: And one lady, and the other lady.]] I'm gonna check it out, and I'm gonna ask you not to bother me. Next time... [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Please read... what it says.]] Don't wave your hand at me, just... [[Voice from the room: Both, both.]] ...don't interfere with the proceedings. [[And that's you waving your hand.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Madam Marshal, please read with understanding what is written in the transcript.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 18 hrs. 18 min 24]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. We continue to consider item 6 of the agenda. I ask that Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, PO-KO, be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u351	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In corrigendum mode. First of all, Minister, you don't answer questions, you run away from responsibility, you don't take this case seriously. I'll remind you that when it comes to the outrageous behavior of the gentleman A fisherman recently at the gates of Oświęcim and the call for hatred, you called for a reduction in his sentence, you acted with him in hand at the electoral convention. You're the one who's responsible for what he's doing today. If you hadn't behaved like this then Mr. Rybak wouldn't have been able to behave so outrageously under that gate in Auschwitz. And Minister, one thing. Enough with the fight against hate speech is enough with respect to the law in force. You oversee the D.A.'s office, all you have to do is not give up those proceedings that end up in court, only from a private prosecution. Please observe the law, you, as Minister of Justice, should do this in the first place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You should listen first.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u352	And another corrigendum, Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You didn't understand what I said when I said change in the law. I was talking about the change in the law that you made as one of the first, it was a change in the law on the prosecution's office, which gave you full power over the prosecution. You are the superior of every prosecutor in Poland, you can make any decision in any criminal proceedings, and what is the effect of this prosecution? This is a hate campaign. This is the fullness of power, which reaches out to, with it comes first and foremost the fullness of responsibility. That's why today you are personally responsible for allowing the prosecution to campaign hatred, and for the three years that have passed, the point is that Stefan W. has been rehabilitated in a penitentiary for three years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've been overseeing what it is, and so it's the full responsibility of the current... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u354	Thank you, Member. Your time is up. Please take the floor of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Joachim Brudziński. [[The minister's time is up - eight minutes and you haven't turned off...]] [[There's no time.]] You're welcome, Mr. Minister What else asked for the floor. [[And in what mode? Your marshal, in what mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u355	Dear Marshal! High Seym! All the time you choose the arguments that are beneficial to you, and you use arguments or features, whatever we call it, only those that fit you as well. You ask many times what you've done in the penitentiary. Isn't it that in a penitentiary this man, watching what you said, just public television, because prisoners, as you say, can only watch public television... [[Informational.]] ...he didn't have that kind of opinion? I wouldn't want to be mean and ask you a question if the prisoners were just watching public television, what do you think their election preferences should be? You want me to show you, you can see in the PKW what are the electoral preferences of the people who are in the penitentiary? But we do not want to talk about a very serious matter in this way, but I ask you very much to be honest. Today, the Member mentions this, we have amended the Act on the Prosecutor's Office. What's changed? There you go. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: A wave of redemptions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the High Sejm, with respect to the rule of the Civic Platform, crime falls from year to year, a sense of security is growing. [[Yeah, sure.]] These are objective data. There are matters, High Sejm, such as in the case of Amber Gold, when... [[Yeah, well, that's not objective data.]] ...the D.A.'s office worked for two and a half years, and there was nothing you could do that even your D.A. Seremet admitted. And today, as we're dealing with similar crimes, you can see that it's two weeks, a month, and the prosecution works immediately. This is a real change. [[What could be done? And why didn't you initiate proceedings in Kaczynski's case?]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Kaczyński.]] [[Your suspect Kaczyński.]] And now one more thing, Madam President, she mentioned rehabilitation. Do you know, High Sejm, that the first... You only use arguments that are convenient for you. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 3 years.]] For more than half of the prison sentence, he was supervised by the government - which government? Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. [[We had an independent D.A.'s office. Independent D.A., you don't know what that means.]] The state somehow forgets this argument and I'll tell you more. The first real treatment, the real treatment of this man at all, began not under your rule. Isolation when? That's why it's easy to say. There's objective data. [[And the effect is what?]] As I say, crime is falling, security is growing, rehabilitation... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But consistently, what are you....]] For the first time in years, since the rule of the Civic Platform, the return to crime has been falling. [[Applause]] It's because the prisoners went to work. Do you know that when we came here... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: A wave of acceptance for the hate campaign. This is the result of your actions.]] ...to the Ministry of Justice, the prisoners were the least employed in Europe? Today he works mostly in Europe. And do you know that according to statistics, according to researchers around the world, the best form of rehabilitation is work? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But how was Stefan W. rehabilitated? That's the subject.]] It just happened that in your day there was no job, there was no rehabilitation, all the statistics were worse. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And Stefan W.?]] If you are trying to choose the arguments that are convenient for you today, and you say that Stefan W. or the other prisoners were just watching public television... [[Well, that's because it was.]] ...I want to tell you one thing, remind you, and it's gonna hurt you very much. [[That's because you turned off all the other channels.]] Stefan W. has been sitting since 2013. You know that in 2013, any television To turn it on, there was the same narration everywhere. In 2014 and 2015 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No [[What a guy.]] Don't you remember? [[Applause]] Jacek Kurski was president of television in 2014? They were the same everywhere. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not choose your arguments. If we really want to talk... [[You can't be serious...]] ...on matters related to rehabilitation in prisons, and on testing measures... Our government rebuilt, for example. an electronic surveillance system, which today has a 96-percent efficiency, also one of the highest in Europe. [[That's about it?]] When we came to the Ministry of Justice, this element of execution didn't work at all, it was over. [[But what does that have to do with the case?]] It is able to repair individual elements slowly. Is there much more to do? Of course there's still a lot to do. [[It's not about that, Minister.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Stefan W. Effects of rehabilitation.]] But I want to tell you this... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Stefan W. is the subject.]] Mrs Pihowicz, honourable Member, within the framework of, I understand, such a political debate and the fight against hate speech, you are still yelling at me and asking about rehabilitation. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: About Stefan W. Because this is the subject, Minister.]] I'll answer you. Compared to the Civic Platform's governments, rehabilitation has improved according to all the measurable indicators that scientists in Europe accept. According to all the indicators. It's exactly the same with fighting crime. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We ask about Stefan W.]] That's why, I'm so sorry, you're only using... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Because this is the subject of the debate.]] ...popularism, and you don't want to admit one simple fact. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is the subject of the debate. Stefan W.]] It's a crime, it's a horrible crime. Nobody really wanted this to happen. We're trying to sit down with you today and draw conclusions, but you don't want to... If you want, we have prepared such a statement that shows the crimes that took place in the state of government, every year, in the days of every Minister of Justice from the Civic Platform, crimes that were equally brutal, equally ruthless - on leave, on breaks, moments after leaving the prison. But do you know why there was no debate in the High House at the same level as today? Because I hope... Do you know why? I was sitting in opposition benches right here. Do you know why? Because I didn't use it for political purposes because I was responsible. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And so is the rule of law and justice. If you want, I'll start reading it to you every year: child murder, rape, pedophilia. These are the people who left the prisons. I, too, could ask the Member: What about rehabilitation? Well, that's what the data shows... I just understand that we in the High House do not want to distinguish between anyone because of whether he is a politician or not. [[But what is this information about?]] I hope we understand such an indication. That is why I wanted to appeal to you again. We would like to have serious partners on your side, not screaming through the whole debate in the first row. [[Voice from the hall: Patrick, spare me, spare me.]] The point is to work together to figure out how to change this system in the future so that it works even better. We have much to improve, but unfortunately all objective indicators are better today than in governments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Even better, even better.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u356	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Joachim Brudziński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to answer my questions quickly. If I don't answer one, I want to assure you that there will be written answers. The first question, more broadly, Mr Grzegorz Furga, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Mr Mark Wójcik, concerning the actions of the Minister of Home Affairs towards the Police after this dramatic event. In my speech I already told you that there is a control at the Provincial Police Command in Gdansk. I am convinced that all the circumstances related to this tragedy will be clarified and that information will first be provided to the relevant police units and then to the public. On the other hand, I would like to refer to Mr Wójcik's substantive and correct question about actions - or lack of action - which the police did not take after Stefan W left prison. Well, Mr President, there is no operational supervision institution in the law. That's one thing. Secondly, the police's actions were also summarized by the convicted mother, who first, by submitting this notification... I believe that he has had such knowledge for years on this subject. Very often, when people are sentenced to leave prison before they leave those facilities on the part of the family, there are voices of concern to the police, voices of doubt about what this person will be doing after leaving the penitentiary. It was the same in this case. Has it been trivialized? Oh, no, because there was a police note to the penitentiary on this case. There was at no stage of the investigation, including by the Prison Service, information on life or health risks. I mean, Stefan W. announced spectacular actions, but actions of a robbery, criminal nature, but not those for which even regulations could be involved, as Minister Ziobro said, concerning the so-called. The beast. The police are receiving information from the Prison Service about people leaving prison facilities on a case-by-case basis. In this case, too. It's about someone who's been convicted over three years. Others concern sex offenders convicted of instigation, for participating in organized criminal groups for more than three years, as in this case. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Attention, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, there are over 80,000 people leaving prison every year. If you simply follow this basic thesis in the Member's question as to the 100 thousandth formation of the Police, please, each police officer should follow a free man who was released from prison after being punished. [[Voice from the room: Follow him.]] What time do we take? A month, two months? Stefan W. committed another crime after a month. It's not like I'm running away from responsibility because you have to ask yourself these kinds of questions, but I also want to show you honestly the scale of the challenges that come to face. One more remark. 3 days after Stefan W. left the prison, i.e. On 11 December, there was a call from a convicted mother who informed a police officer at Police Station III that Stefan W. was not carrying out those threats with which she, in the form of these doubts, turned to the police. Ladies and gentlemen! The next question is Mr Bankowski's question. This case appeared in several speeches. This concerns an extremely appalling issue in recent days, namely the issue of Mr Piotr Rybak and the manifestation. Mr Protasiewicz also asked about this, also about my activity on social networks. Ladies and gentlemen, after reading the appeal, the position of the Warsaw insurgents and former prisoners of the German Nazi Auschwitz camp, I know one thing that should be said from my lips: I apologize. I said it, I wrote it. I also put it on the public television show yesterday. Does that mean there were legal grounds? All this time I assume that we are functioning, I am convinced, in a democratic state of law. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many emotions, sorry to say, also demagoguey, because you are saying that there is or was a protective umbrella over Mr. Peter Fisherman. There was even a charge that Minister Zbigniew Ziobro appeared at one of the electoral rallies. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Thank you.]] Mrs Rybak, I would be very careful here, because on the Internet it is very easy to find a picture of Mr Rybak sitting next to Donald Tusk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can snort, but that's the facts. [[Brought by the Mularczyk. This is absolute manipulation.]] This isn't manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to have this kind of discussion. What's my point? I think that after the insurgents speak out of my mouth, the word should be "sorry." [[Then apologize for the manipulation.]] But what was the situation? The situation was that the assembly was legal. Legitimate decision, ladies and gentlemen - you will also say that this is manipulation - the mayor of Oświęcim, your former party colleague. It was the mayor of Oświęcim who gave his consent to this manifestation, knowing very well who Rybak is. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Provocation!]] Fisherman was convicted of this government, so talking about this government stretching a protective umbrella over Fisherman is very indecent. [[Judgments are handed down by the courts, not by the government.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it very clear that before Mr. Rybak and his colleagues arrived at Auschwitz, although they were going to a legal assembly, the police took several steps, knowing who he was dealing with. Among other things, as a result of these actions, the sound equipment was taken from them, banners, banners were taken away from them. When this march had already taken place, I made sure that I spoke to the chief of police before going to the state, at no stage of this march there were no passwords that would authorize the police to request a solution to this march. Those slogans, on the other hand, actually appeared. Hence my apologies, because at the moment when Rybak uttered these shameful words at the manifestation in Oświęcim, the manifestation legalized by Mayor Oświęcim, he should be stopped. [[It wasn't legalized.]] Whatever you call it. Permission granted, legalized. There was this legal manifestation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of running away from my moral responsibility for this. However, as for my entry, in replying to Mr Protasiewicz, I do believe that people who have anti-Semitic passwords on their mouths are regular... I don't want to quote literally what I wrote, you can check it out. As you may know, I will have a trial with Mr. Fisherman for this. Having Mr. Rybak's trial is of course something to be proud of. Ladies and gentlemen, it can be said in favour of de Tocqueville that my freedom ends where the freedom of another man begins, or the Voltaire, to which the words are attributed: although I disagree with your views, I will die for you to be able to preach them. Ladies and gentlemen, if we begin to apply very rigorously what Minister Ziobro has called for, just one way only, it may turn out that the pendulum will tip the other way in a moment. These are very difficult situations, very difficult situations for the police, which must move within the existing law. Now, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus's appeal. Member, yes. You're talking about leaning together on the proposals you've made with regard to hate speech. Only, ladies and gentlemen, in the current legal system can we draw the consequences. The police can go where the law is being broken. The law is violated when it is called upon to commit a crime or when there are criminal threats. There is also a reference to hate speech in this record, but what is hate speech, because this is not really described, is decided by experts. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also been repeatedly attacked as a government, including myself as Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, for not having a firm reaction where, according to a subjective assessment, many have had banners on which either the slogans glorifying one of totalitarianisms or the speech of hatred was used. It's just, ladies and gentlemen, the D.A.'s office didn't decide to start a lawsuit. Why? Because she had - and this is very easy to verify - a dozen legal expertise of people who really, believe me, would be very difficult to classify... linguists, historians who would be difficult to qualify for sympathizers of my political environment, who also cooperate with an advocate of civil rights. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Death certificates.]] And that's the dilemma. And that's the dilemma. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Death certificates.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, if we say... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Death certificates.]] Madam, let me ask you this. I'm answering your ex-club friend's question. [[Voice from the room: you're manipulating.]] Madam President, you are calling for joint action when it comes to hate speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned this... [[Andruszkiewicz.]] ...that I apologize to the prisoners of concentration camps yesterday on public television. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from ladies who work as makeupists, from ladies who work not as frontmen, journalists, from people working on public television every day, that when they leave public television every day, they come into contact with a group of people who broadcast live on Facebook and speak to these people, to public television workers: You have blood on your hands, you are guilty of one or another... [[Well, why?]] Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of words have come out of this podium... [[Think about why.]] And I am replying to you, Member. Because just as you have the right to, and rightly resent the fact that you've had nasty and disgusting words addressed to you, please don't answer... [[You didn't condemn it.]] ...that right... [[From the piss activist, the clerk...]] ...to also recognize such words as words that hurt God's guilty spirit, who work on public television. This, ladies and gentlemen... [[But you never condemned a PiS activist, you never did.]] Ma'am, ma'am... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: They do not understand.]] [[Voice from the room: Stone peace.]] I don't want to say it because it will be considered a hate speech: the grandfather talked to the painting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to take this discussion seriously, not on a ping-pong basis. Again... [[Saying Tusk's dating Fisherman.]] Again, ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] ... I'm gonna go over the other substantive questions again. [[Manipulant.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was a question about the MMA's activities related to security agencies. In answer to Mr Piotr Pyzik's question as to whether the security agency met the requirements, I would like to inform you that this agency, with full responsibility, did not comply with the statutory requirements and therefore started the procedure for the withdrawal of the agency's licence. Is this action? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In 2018 we carried out such checks 111 across the country. In the case of 27 companies, we started proceedings for the withdrawal of the concession. Nearly 120 such checks are foreseen this year. It was asked, such a question from the mouth of Mr Furgo, which measures were taken to at least try to regulate and resolve these matters. Ladies and gentlemen, these solutions have emerged. We would like to give - but this also requires consensus and discussion - the competence of the Polish Police, of course, while maintaining the possibilities available to the Polish Police at the moment, for more frequent inspections. This is not only the control of the department of concessions and supervision in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because there are several employees of this department, and there are several thousand security companies in Poland. But to introduce... especially to those involved in security, so-called. Officers, excuse me, qualified security personnel, those who have access to weapons, permission for health and safety measures. What did it look like in the case of the Typhoon agency? This agency - we check it out, it is still in the process of checking - has secured many events in Gdańsk. It was an agency that worked with the Gdansk City Hall and had permanent contracts signed. Mr Andrzej Melak asked if this party was a mass event. No, you don't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She wasn't reported as a mass event. Here was used such a ruse from the Law on Road Traffic - with the approval of the city hall, after consulting the chief of the voivodship police, consent was given to the occupation of the road lane... [[It's a myk, a myk.]] ...so in no way was this party protected as a mass event, or even as a public assembly. It's just that the road lane's been taken. There have also been questions about what solutions are still being sought here to raise the level of security of public officials, in this case local government officials. Ladies and gentlemen, we are analyzing various ideas. One of these ideas is e.g. propose such amendments to the provisions of the Municipal Guards Act in order to increase the possibility of involving municipal and urban guards, but at the request of the governor, mayor or president... [[Organizers.]] ...so it's not mandatory not to make such a requirement here that it's the city police officers, the municipal guards, who are supposed to act as security guards, but to give them the opportunity to have city guards with, for example. qualifications at a level comparable to that of qualified security staff could be sidelined by presidents, wojetins, mayors. Here we also eat research carried out in the United States. It has been counted, it has been examined that every time a person is in uniform with the mayor, it is a preventive action that discourages many potential criminals from attacking such a person. We are analysing this, and we will also try to make such proposals in order to include them in the current legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, Krystyna Skowrońska and Małgorzata Chmiel ask what the police have done to ensure the safety of the events organised within the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid. [[Why were the cops pulled out?]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are exactly the kind of demagogical accusations like the one made by your Member about my alleged withdrawal from security... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[QUICK.]] ... The Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. Facts and data... [[Voice from the room: It's Friday.]] Mr Pięta had as much power in this matter as the Member here in this Chamber, i.e. none. Ladies and gentlemen, the data... [[So who took the cops?]] [[He didn't even speak.]] If you don't mind, I'd be happy to answer. Year 2010: number of police officers assigned to secure the finals of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid - 9314, number of crimes - 33. Year 2011: number of police officers targeted - 9195, number of crimes committed - 35, offences - 22. Year 2012: 14 964 police officers, number of crimes - 21, offences - 18. Year 2013: 14 799 officers, number of crimes - 24. 2014: 17 204 officers... [[It was the 14th.]] ...the number of crimes - 24. Year 2015: 17,777, 18 crimes. Year 2016: 16 thousand Officers, crimes committed - 12. 2017: 16 thousand. Officers, crimes - 19. [[Hard data, yes, sir.]] 2018: 15,844 officers, committed crimes - 19. I - note - year 2019: 13 thousand. Officers, crimes committed - 7, including, of course, the most tragic crime that it was. And now, ladies and gentlemen, yes. There was also an argument here that at mass events stadiums are protected. [[There was one missing, in Gdansk.]] Ladies and gentlemen, police officers don't secure mass events. [[They used to be, now they're gone.]] Police officers, as was the case in Gdańsk, were outside the area of this assembly on the road lane. Ladies and gentlemen, the day before this tragedy, as a guest of one of the commercial radio stations, I said very clearly that my only expectation of the officers is to ensure the safety of all participants of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid. And that's the job I'd like the chief of police for... That's what the officers did. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, a man is dead, and you are applauding.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Well, but the signals...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am opposed to engaging... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am opposed to involving police officers... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Think about it, Nitras.]] I am opposed to involving police officers both to stick angel wings in the Orszak of the Three Kings, participating on horses... [[A voice from the room: Really? Really?]] ...as opposed to involving police officers and other services to do the wrong thing by law. On the other hand, I don't mind any police officer engaging, if necessary, in any way that he considers appropriate, in any event. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very irresponsible to say that there was no order for officers to secure the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. [[The police weren't there.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one more argument I would like to make. When we, as the Government of Law and Justice, decided to call the event in Kostrzyn, an annual, summary and a form of thank-you to the volunteers of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, which was once called Woodstock, to call it a high-risk event, remember how much screaming was, how much we wanted to talk about how much we wanted to increase security expectations and make it more difficult to have fun. [[Applause]] [[Pacify, yes, restrictions, bravo.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's decide whether we take this type of event seriously or use it as a baton. When it's convenient, we say no, it shouldn't be the police... [[That's right, and if anything happens, it's a big deal.]] ...there shouldn't be a high-risk event, there shouldn't be a mass event. [[That's hypocrisy.]] Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the chief of police is not giving permission to the request of the Gdansk City Hall. Because that must also be said honestly, it was the City Hall's agreement that the final of the Grand Orchestra of Christmas Help in Gdansk should take place in the form of a lane occupation, not a mass event. Mrs Pomaska has just said here that, if the law had already been observed, there would in many cases have been no crime. Full agreement, Member. If the law on the mass event by the Gdansk City Hall were also taken seriously, perhaps this event would not have happened. [[Oh, no.]] And this isn't taking responsibility on city hall or anyone else. [[That's bitter.]] I feel, I say... Because there were also questions about us going out here and talking, pretending nothing happened. It happened, right, a man died. And I honestly said that here, ladies and gentlemen, during my first speech. [[He's a manipulative maniac, he's a manipulative man.]] My responsibility in this matter is also obvious. And I am presenting this to the High House, because the High House also has the right to call me off, and I am putting myself at the disposal of the Prime Minister. I'm not going to hide behind anyone's back, ladies and gentlemen. I feel, ladies and gentlemen, also responsible for what happened, there is no trial in me right now... [[Escape.]] ...or running away or giving up on this responsibility. It's just that, ladies and gentlemen, what you're trying to say is a monastery longer than a Prior. Longer a monastery than a Prior. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing that could have been the result of this debate is another battle for such verbal clippings. Let's learn from this. There are concrete proposals for solutions, proposals that, in the future, God willing, will prevent anyone from committing such a dramatic crime as the one we faced on 13 January. Like I said, the other questions I didn't have time to answer will be answered in writing. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u358	Thank you. MEPs have come forward to correct this. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u359	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Appreciating the style of conversation and exchange of arguments that Minister Brudziński has proposed, I would really like to take the floor in the mode of correction. Minister! I saw your reaction on Twitter to these events in Auschwitz, i.e. In Oświęcim, I apologize, and I also wrote: chapeau bass, hats off. I think it was very appropriate, although this argument I used... The point was, since we're accepting, I'm assuming the killer of the murder of the dead. President Adamowicz was a madman, then the suspicion that someone has an imbalance in the ceiling should not be, so to speak, a pretext for ignoring the risks associated with his activities. [[Of course.]] That's all I meant. I appreciate your reaction, Minister. I just think that since we already suspect that he's a little crazy and dangerous because of the message... [[Potentially.]] ...that's it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There should be no waiting for reaction, whether it's the insurgents or the prisoners of the camp...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u360	Thank you, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u361	...just have to react right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u362	Another corrigendum, Mr Wójcik. [[Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration Joachim Brudziński: Legal basis, Mr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u363	Oh, because as far as national hatred is concerned, this is the legal basis. There he is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u364	Mr Wójcik, corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u365	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Minister's speech was very different from that of Minister Ziobra and Minister Jaki and we thank you for that. However, you have brought to absurdity the matter of supervision of people who have come out of prison, speaking of 80,000. Officers who would have to be sent to control these people. [[Three shifts, three shifts.]] Not at all, Minister. Please do not bring police work to absurdity because it is the police who have the tools to verify whether reports related to the possibility of a crime are serious or not. The task of the police is not only to respond when a crime is committed, but also to prevent the possibility of committing a crime. See if the police really did all the work in this case, for example. In order for the police to cooperate with the Prison Guard, a special agreement was signed in 2014. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't bring these things to absurdity...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u366	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u367	...just watch what happens to the information that's being exchanged. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u368	Corrigendum - Mrs Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I have a request not to manipulate you. My words about obeying the law were referring to Minister Ziobra and I was talking about the fact that there are tools to combat hatred. Minister Ziobro oversees the prosecutor's office and the prosecutor's office, which is overseen by Minister Ziobro, has repeatedly resigned from this case. I think there's a lot of people in this room who had cases like this dropped by the D.A.'s office. And one more thing. While you were speaking and exchanging my name, one of the people on Twitter observed by you by Marshal Mazurek, by Mr Tarczyński, so I hope that you will also react... [[PiS Troll.]] ...she used not so much offensive words as threats to me. I'm not gonna read it. I'll be with you in a minute. [[Threats.]] ...and I'll show you. This will also be a very serious test for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's from your troll factory. With a white and red flag. Show me who's watching, Aga.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u370	Another corrigendum - Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u371	Minister! I have indeed quoted the words of Mr Five, member of the 2015 Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. It was Mr Pięta who threatened that if they were involved in this HOME, they should submit a report from the service the next day. And then the question came up from the editor Nizinkiewicz and the editor of Skórzyński: Does this mean that these officers will lose their jobs? That was the question asked by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Prime Minister Beata Szydło did not answer that question. But what were the subsequent actions? The actions were: TVP withdraws from supporting the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. What actions later? Bank Pekao SA, which has other priorities, as we know from Kaczyński's tapes, withdraws from supporting the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. Regarding the military - there is no Minister Macierewicz or Minister Błaszczak here - in 2015, 65 military units and institutions under general command supported the orchestra. Later [[♪ The bell ♪]] - one big nothing. It was an organized group... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u372	Thank you very much. Corrigendum - Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To Mr Wojcik: agree, Mr, but you should check that this agreement of 2014 concerns people from so-called. The beast laws. Mr. Stefan W., I mean, you... Stefan W. didn't qualify... [[Man, man.]] Man, of course. It was not eligible for this group in the light of the current rules and was not subject to the provisions of those laws. And understand that. Speaking of this number, sir, I did not really bring... [[As far as I know, the deal's early.]] Well, check it out. Only it is in the light of the current legislation that does not explain the matter in any way. I'm not making this absurd. About 81 grand. I would have to use the knowledge of Minister Jaki and Minister Ziobra to determine how many of them are affected by this type of crime, I would say, emotional dysfunction, mental dysfunction, etc. [[Who's gonna judge?]] Exactly. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to try... [[A psychiatrist.]] ...to fill this gap that we've caught on this one -- I'll repeat it again -- a huge tragedy. And here is the enormous work of Minister Łukasz Szumowski. They admit it, I believe, to the heads of the clubs participating in our meeting, that there is already a specific... There's a light in the tunnel when it comes to substance. We've agreed that the clubs are gonna deploy specialists... [[Money.]] ...psychiatrists, law professors and we'll try to work out legal solutions that will cover this gap. But for God's sake! - I'm going to say again: let's not take advantage of everything that involves this tragedy, to a simple one, not to say simple, to fight verbal maces. Mr President, once again, I would like to tell you. The fact that Mr Pięta wrote this tweet does not have the slightest or the slightest effect. And I thanked you for that, and once again I thank the police officers. [[But the police were less.]] Mr President, I have provided statistics. The point is to secure every mass event - each one. [[But they weren't visible.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, accept, for God's sake, that it is not my intention, the intention of the police, the intention of any politician, that through the prism of whether we agree or disagree... [[Of course.]] ...whether we share his political views, whether we share his views, decide: this one will have protection, and this one will not have protection. [[But there were a couple thousand cops in the monthbook, and... no.]] What legal regime, sir? What legal regime? A public gathering, a cyclical one? Officers who also protected the safety of those who prevented a legal assembly. If you have a legal assembly and, uh, on, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... [[For three days Krakowskie was closed.]] If you have a legal assembly and anyone, too, I don't know, from my political background, will prevent you from... [[Absolutely.]] ...at a cyclical assembly, I will issue orders to the police to remove those protesters, just as Joseph Grzyb was removed. Thank you kindly. [[The police are apolitical.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u374	Thank you. Another corrigendum - Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. [[Mrs Pomaska, you have not answered.]] [[Minister of Interior and Administration Joachim Brudziński: I answered. Not in the microphone.]] [[It's registered everything, really. Everything's registered...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Of course, I'm aware of that, and I agree with that. Indeed, criminal law, as regards speech of hatred in Poland, I do not want to say that it is exemplary, but it is good. And maybe other countries could learn from us, but there are a few things that could be fixed. And, for example, one such issue is the statutory definition of hate speech, because this one, for example. There is no Polish law. And this is one idea I'm throwing you here too, but I would also like you to pay attention to 20 recommendations from the Ombudsman. These are recommendations that were developed in 2015 and 2017 by ombudsman together with the UN. There are 20 very simple recommendations that concern statutory changes, changes in the prosecution's office, in the police, but also changes in public life. I encourage you to read this and I think we can work it out together.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u376	The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm accept the government's information regarding the doubts surrounding the investigation into the murder of President Paweł Adamowicz and the functioning of the prison and justice system for information. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Formal proposal - Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska... [[What time's the vote, Marshal, today? Excuse me? I read from your lips that you said something very nice to me.]] [[Voice from the hall: That he loves you.]] [[But what, four o'clock in the morning?]] Member, please. Not more than 2 minutes, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to request a photo on the agenda and a reference to the Public Finance Committee, in accordance with the article. Paragraph 184. 3 points 1 to 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in print No 3158, 3159, 3160 and 3171, in connection with the negative opinion of the European Central Bank on those prints which had just entered the Sejm. Yesterday, during the committee work, we talked a lot about the fact that these laws should be notified. Lawyers from the Legal Office paid attention to this, and this is explicitly stated in the BAS opinion. Nevertheless, the President decided to continue working on these prints. And today we got a negative opinion that pays attention to two issues. Firstly, that the solutions adopted there may affect the ability of the National Bank of Poland to maintain the personnel necessary to carry out the tasks imposed on the National Bank of Poland and should therefore be thoroughly analysed. Yesterday we tried to analyze how much the solutions introduced would affect the departure of staff and the possibility of hiring specialists by the National Bank of Poland, but unfortunately, also due to the lack of statistical preparation, representatives of the National Bank of Poland could not tell us how many people would be affected by the changes. And it is the European Central Bank that points out that it should be well consulted and returned to the discussion on this printing. On the other hand, there is also doubt as to the sanctions imposed on persons who would not make statements of property which are introduced by these arrangements. There is political consensus, I think, on all sides, that some changes need to be made in relation to the social problem caused by the public opinion concerning the National Bank of Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we're gonna reschedule these prints, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u378	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u379	...the doubts raised by the European Central Bank must be resolved.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u380	It is not possible to withdraw the report to the committee because the report has already been prepared. That's one thing. Secondly, this opinion is known to the marshal and it does not affect... It's not binding. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: How is it not binding?]] Thirdly, we do not have a quorum in accordance with Article. 120 Constitution, with regard to Article. 190 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mrs. Skowronska, your motion in writing... [[Mrs Skowrońska.]] ...Mrs. Skowronska, and then I will certainly consider him... We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on Parliamentary draft laws on: - amendment of the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, - amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, - amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions (prints no. 3158, 3159, 3160 and 3171). [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But it was a formal conclusion. We have to vote him out.]] I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 23 January of this year, Marshal of the Sejm sent three drafts of parliamentary laws to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading: on the amendment of the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions, print No 3158, on the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, print No 3159, and on the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions, print No 3160. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, all the projects were presented by the applicants and discussed. Of course, MEPs and representatives of the National Bank of Poland and the Supreme Chamber of Control took part in the discussion. Opinions on individual projects were also presented by the Legal Office's staff. The Commission's decision as a leading project identified this most far-reaching amendment in the current laws, i.e. print project 3160, submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. During the five-hour meeting of the committee, amendments were tabled, which as a result of the votes were introduced in the draft Print Act No. 3160, the title of which the committee gave the following wording: the Act amending the Act on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland. The Commission, following its first reading and examination of the three draft laws mentioned on 29 January, proposes that the attached draft law be adopted in print report 3171. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u382	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions, print no. 3160. The preparation of this project was a response to social expectations regarding the transparency of salaries of persons holding senior management positions in the National Bank of Poland. According to the current legal situation, the amount of remuneration is determined annually in the National Bank of Poland's financial plan, taking into account the level of wages in the banking sector. The rules for the remuneration of employees of the National Bank of Poland are laid down by the Management Board of the NBP and the remuneration of the President and Vice-Presidents of the NBP are determined on the basis of the rules on the remuneration of managers of state positions. The proposed bill introduces the principle of transparency as a fundamental principle of wage formation in the National Bank of Poland. The proposed rules determine the control of the authorities of the central bank of the Republic of Poland as social as well as institutional. On the other hand, granting the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland the power to further develop certain remunerations while maintaining a certain statutory maximum results from the full independence of the central bank and does not affect its autonomy to any extent. The determination of the amount of funds for remuneration remains unchanged and will be established annually in the financial plan of the National Bank of Poland. In the bill we introduce a maximum salary threshold of 0.6 times the total remuneration of the President of the National Bank of Poland. This threshold will apply to the establishment by the bank's management of remuneration for each category of posts. Art. 2 of this bill introduces the provision that the resolution of the Management Board of NBP on the principles of remuneration of NBP employees is public and is made available by the President of NBP in the Public Information Bulletin on the subject side of the National Bank of Poland. Information on the remuneration of the President, Vice President, members of the NBP's Management Board and executives listed in the Act shall be made available by the President of the National Bank of Poland in the Public Information Bulletin. Art. 3 of the bill refers to the publication by the President of the NBP in the Public Information Bulletin, within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, of the resolution of the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland on the remuneration of NBP employees in force in the years 1995 to 2018 and on the level of remuneration received in those years by the President, Vice-Presidents, members of the Management Board and listed in the Act of the National Bank of Poland. The Act also sets out the obligation of the persons mentioned enumeratively to make a statement of their assets. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. At the same time, I make an amendment on behalf of the applicants restoring the provision of the original text of the Art Act. 66. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u384	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Marta Golbik, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u385	Thank you. I regret that Mr President did not stutter that we should not proceed with this law today because it requires notification of the European Central Bank. [[Applause]] But maybe from the beginning. I'm gonna start by saying why we're running this bill today. The PiS destroys all respected and well-reputed institutions over the years. You destroyed the Committee on Financial Supervision by casting Mr Chrzanowski's chairman, a man demanding 40 million zlotys of bribery in exchange for his favor with the bank. Now you have destroyed the National Bank of Poland, making it president for years of the close environment of Mr.Glapiński's PiS, one of the heroes on the occasion of the KNF scandal, as well as a man employing people with questionable competences for the amount of 65 thousand. PLN per month. How do we know they were people with questionable powers? Well, Mrs Wojciechowska, mentioned in the public debate, has long been responsible for the PR of the National Bank of Poland, and what is this PR, for several months we have seen. Most importantly, this bill wouldn't be necessary today. In order to meet the expectations of the public, who wants to know the level of earnings and qualifications of executives such as CEO Glapiński, it would be enough to have basic honesty and a willingness to reveal them, but this is clearly lacking. I am just wondering if, following this legislative procedure, we can expect in the future a law, a special declassifying act, judging from the last tapes, the real estate of President Kaczyński. [[Voice from the room: Hate speech.]] We have a very short, quickly prepared project ahead of us. Its small volume did not prevent a group of PiS members who were its authors to include many logical and systemic errors, while at the same time filling the project with strict populist records to calm the social moods resulting from the uproar not even with the same scandal in the NBP, but with the avalanche of various scandals that have been going on for many months. In this project as in the lens perfectly reveals the way of thinking and acting, in which the PiS takes a fake fight against the problems that it created itself. As was the case with the horrors and illegal collections by the ministers of your government of prizes - the ministers took these prizes and the salaries were cut down, among others. The local government, while the ministers have still not explained themselves from these awards, have not given them away and have not revealed where the money for these awards are - President Glapiński employs ladies for an indecently high salary, and the consequences will be borne by all employees of the National Bank of Poland. The applicants initially intended to deceive citizens and introduce such records that would enable Poles to know only the remuneration grid. Poles would not know exactly what these earnings are, and President Glapiński could still hire more people without embarrassment - without fear that the public would know the amount of their earnings. In the end, however - and this is the only one in this project that deserves praise - you have accepted the provisions proposed by the Civic Platform, and you have introduced them into this bill. This will allow you to see how many individuals earn. [[And they were making money.]] I hope that the defence of the way of acting and developing personal structures, the symbol of which is already now President Glapiński, will never take place again. I also hope that the authorities will consistently address the prevention of such agreements in KGHM and all companies of the State Treasury, as each day brings us new information about more people related to the PiS environment and about hiring family members associated with PiS. It is still critical to make a statement subject to publication if it could cause risks to the applicant, but I think that the majority in this Chamber will find that the earnings of your assistants to the President of Glapiński do not require strict information protection, which is why on behalf of the Civic Platform Club I am making an amendment to remove this objection. I will remind you once again that I hope that the PiS will have the courage to explain situations of this type everywhere, in all companies of the Treasury and wherever you have an impact on those who are employed. We're determined, and sooner or later, we're gonna introduce these rules and we're gonna account for it, because transparency... [[For eight years...]] ...public life is one of the ways of stopping the development of the oligarchy that we are dealing with. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Bravo, Member.]] [[No one has done as much as we have.]] [[No one has done as much as you have. Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u386	Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly: this project, which is now attached to the committee's report, has nothing to do with the project we have proposed to discuss it. I'll tell you why he has nothing to do with it. Because two elements are not fulfilled: the main element is that we do not stress in any way that there should be a connection between competence and remuneration, regardless of what remuneration. I would point out that in our project we did not talk about the amount of remuneration, we did not talk about raising or lowering. It's as if it's in the hands of the President of the NBP. We proposed that the Marshal of the Sejm should also approve this, which was not understood. We can understand that. On the other hand, we cannot understand why it is not the right way of thinking so that earnings and competences go together, so to speak. This is a very serious lack in this project, which we currently have, that there is no connection here. The second problem is what has already been mentioned, namely the opinion which has now been published on the European Central Bank's pages and which is unfavourable. This opinion isn't very thoughtful to be clear. It is not very thoughtful, but it must be taken into account that this will be the position of the European Central Bank, and we have an open next front in the European Union. It's not worth it. This case isn't worth it. Or two employees, because I don't want to put it sexistly here, or whether five workers are dealing with this whole fight in the last few days, it's not worth another front with the European Union or with other bodies, in this case with the European Central Bank. So, first of all, I'd suggest we slow down. Secondly, I would like the Civic Platform to reflect on what it wants. First she made a fuss about that salary, and now she's saying everything's cool. I'm a little confused, but I understand that... [[What are you saying?]] ...it'll be explained to me in time, so I don't have a problem with it. On the other hand, I believe that we should not proceed on this project at the moment, that we should sit still and work on it. We should take into account all the other solutions that were proposed and in the Civic Platform project, and in our project, of course, with the condition that it is consistent with the constitution, and then perhaps we will work something out. There's no need to rush. For now - there is such an expression, not to confuse with the PO-KO, there is such an expression, but I think linguists do not like it - we submit to this project, which is, an amendment, if possible, your marshal, which assumes that, however, when determining these salaries, it is not so much to be taken into account, because we consider it very softly, how much so that the decision-makers, the bank's management, get acquainted each time with the level of remuneration in the banking sector. We can't take the NBP's wages completely away from the banking sector, because we're gonna tear NBP from the banking sector, and this is the mother of all the mothers of the banking sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u388	Thank you. The additional vote of the Kukiz club15 - Mr Blazej Parda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're here because the shoes and the arrogance of NBP leadership have reached the zenith. The institution, which had and should have the highest standards in terms of trust, competence, transparency, began to damage its image and, by the way, the gold. Imagine that we have not received any information about the levels of remuneration currently in force. The director only said that a few hundred people make more than 400,000. PLN per year. The main question arises as to whether this remuneration is followed by competence. The director also raised the problem of the labour market and said that there are currently many vacancies in the NBP. The question is, whose fault is this? It's not like there's a bill yet. The NBP creates staff policy, competence, financial policy, and we don't even know if it's doing it right. That is why we are in favour of exposing the levels of wages and the required competences to high positions, not necessarily now, in a hurry, but in the future. I stress that we are too high a salary for specialists and experts, but not for party nominators. Trust, competence and transparency - this is what the National Bank of Poland should and, in our opinion, must be characterized without excuses or data manipulation. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u390	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee already in principle on the draft law amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland. And that's the right name of the law adopted by the Public Finance Commission (print No 3171). Following a debate last night on three projects with similar themes, the Public Finance Commission submitted an enlarged proposal, extended by amendments, based on a print project No 3160. All the projects examined have one major defect, namely not notified to the European Central Bank under Article. Article 127 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. And as we find out today, an opinion has been given on this matter. All three laws do not meet the requirements. Thus, by continuing the legislative process, we are putting again, and this is no longer the first time, the High House for illegal activities, contrary to the principles of good legislation. After 3 years of working in the Seym, it should be no longer surprising that the current rulers do not know, they do not understand the principle of creating good law at all. The pace of the debate is simply unacceptable this time. At night the first reading, now the second reading, next night and there will be a vote. This is the debate about a project that raises so many doubts. And here you might ask, "What's next? It's not hard to predict. We're about to update... [[Correct.]] ...tonight's bill, because there's no other way. The fact is that the needs in this area are that this is necessary, necessary, but cannot decent changes be adopted by the High House? On the one hand, this principle of independence of the National Bank of Poland, a constitutional principle, enshrined in the Constitution, and on the other hand, unjustified high salaries in the National Bank of Poland and those of people who, in addition to pure PR, do not bring there any substantive expertise to simply guarantee the stability of the state's finances. The draft submitted by the Commission amends two laws, as in the title introduces the obligation to make declarations of property, taking into account two categories of employees, i.e. some workers who do not have these high posts. Their statements are classified information about the clause: reserved, while the statements made by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the first President of the Supreme Court, the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Bank of Poland will be public with regard to the name, surname, except for certain address data, so that the location of the property or movable property cannot be identified. In turn, the Act on the National Bank of Poland establishes the principles of remuneration in the National Bank of Poland for individual positions. And that's where there's a certain reduction in that salary. The remuneration for posts excluding Vice-Presidents and members of the Management Board shall not exceed 0,6 times the remuneration of the President of the National Bank of Poland. And there is another change, namely for comparable purposes there is also a provision to disclose remuneration in 1995 and 2018. In this case, we think the 24-year period is too long. This is simply unacceptable, even for comparable purposes. I propose an amendment specifying this period for 11 years, i.e. period of three previous presidents of the National Bank of Poland: President of Belka, President of Sławomir Skrzypek and President of Leszek Balcerowicz. We think that's gonna be enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u392	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law would not have been necessary if the President of the National Bank of Poland had not behaved like a PiS-owski oligarch, conducted an understandable staff-paying policy, employed people whose competences there is no doubt, for salaries which are not outrageous. But unfortunately, it didn't. The NBP scandal is another PiS pay scandal. For months, citizens have not been able to find out how much two close colleagues of President Glapiński earn, because the President of the National Bank of Poland pretends that the Act on access to public information does not apply to it. Ba, pretends that the National Bank of Poland, although the name itself indicates it, is not a state bank and does not trade state money, public money, so any act on public life disclosure simply does not apply to it. Even from the opinion of the European Central Bank, which I will talk about in a moment, it appears that the disclosure of earnings in the National Bank of Poland, the national bank, should take place and is desirable. I already talked about it at the committee meeting yesterday. The independence of the National Bank of Poland should not be subject to any doubt. But this independence cannot be a iris for lack of transparency. Citizens should know how and whether workers employed in a competent manner actually earn properly, and the transparency of the National Bank of Poland's wage grid should take place. Unfortunately, your marshal, Mr President, yesterday did not pay attention to the fact that even BAS suggests that a notification of the European Central Bank is needed for this bill. And today we know that the European Central Bank has issued a negative opinion on this law. According to IBC, NBP projects have an impact on the functioning of NBP and may affect its autonomy in personnel matters. But worst of all, they may limit the ability of the National Bank of Poland to employ and retain qualified employees, staff in principle necessary to fulfil the functions imposed on the National Bank of Poland. That is why the IBC recommends what we talked about yesterday, and what unfortunately from representatives of the National Bank of Poland we were not able to obtain at the committee meeting, even though it lasted several hours, i.e. some reliable analysis of how these regulations will actually affect the functioning of the National Bank of Poland, how many people have such pay chimneys that may raise doubts, and after they have been cut down and flattened, these people will have reduced wages. Although it was known that this was the case, the representatives of the National Bank of Poland could not answer it precisely. Nor can we answer exactly how this network of wages of the National Bank of Poland is applied to other commercial banks operating in our country, and thus what is the risk of the transfer of employees from the bank to the bank. But what needs to be said is that we do not process this law because of the overpaid experts who manage the liquidity in the bank, who take the key from the point of view of the independence and stability of the National Bank of Poland... [[Nobody wants that.]] ...decisions, because these people must be rewarded with dignity, because on our behalf, citizens, they turn billions of zlotys, but we are talking about you, who cares about the image and communication of the National Bank of Poland, so-called. The PR that's been ruined lately. If the Head of Communication in the worst crisis NBP receives a remuneration of 65 thousand. zł per month, it is no wonder that citizens have doubts about whether this remuneration is paid in a reasonable way. I am surprised at the position of your marshal, who says that the ECB's opinion is not binding on us. The ECB delivered an opinion at the request of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. That's how this opinion begins. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why does the Sejm ask for opinions that it does not intend to face at all, which it does not intend to meet? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u394	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Petru, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the most important reforms that was introduced after the fall of communism was to guarantee the independence of the central bank, independence from politicians. I do not know if you remember that in communist times the National Bank of Poland was following orders from the government. When there was money, and always there was money, he just printed it. Hence the hyperinflation. This is one of the most important experiences of our transformation. It's about making the central bank independent of the politicians. The issue of wages, as we all know, is a sideline. Of course, there is a problem of wages, high wages, which are given to those who are friends of your party, so-called. The bears. This only indicates the approach of PiS to state service, to public service: it is to be expensive and for its own. Ladies and gentlemen, the main problem is that the KNF and NBP scandal is still not clear. It is still unclear whether the former President of KNF Mr.Chrzanowski acted on behalf of the President of the National Bank of Poland, or whether he was the contractor of the order of a larger agreement within your group. We cannot control the greed of PiS activists in Poland. Of course, the transparency of earnings may be introduced in the National Bank of Poland, but if President Glapiński wanted, at this moment he could publish the earnings of the people mentioned. However, any attempts to significantly reduce salaries in the National Bank of Poland will end with this, I ask you, that the National Bank of Poland will not be able to hire monetary policy professionals. I assure you that most of the people present in the Chamber have no idea what monetary policy is, what is the supervision of the banking sector, which departments are critical, which are irrelevant. [[We know, we know.]] I know some people know. [[Do you?]] If, as a result, significant wage cuts are introduced, the question is: Where will you find specialists? In the Seym? Among the councilmen of PiS? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mockery, this is simply an infantile approach to the management of the state. Supervisory authorities must be subject to special protection, above all against politicians. The current government and president's fault is to cast as head of the National Bank of Poland... [[Rysiek, would you agree?]] Would you mind if I didn't disturb you? ...a close companion of Jarosław Kaczyński, or Adam Glapiński, who together with Jarosław Kaczyński founded PC. It is the PiS' fault that the head of the KNF becomes the nominate of the PiS policy. It should be a person who is politically independent. Ladies and gentlemen, KNF should oversee Bank Pekao SA, not allow loans to be given on the phone. Lowering wages, yet some sick ideas with forks is an infantile policy of an unserious country, which is fortunately still in the European Union. Thankfully, the European Central Bank has issued a negative opinion, because you have absolutely no idea how serious the central bank is. The last financial crisis started with a central bank mistake, that was the Fed. If in Poland we have a situation of lack of employment opportunities for people from the banking sector or monetary policy specialists, the central bank will become a fake. Therefore, I believe that this law is unnecessary. Only such a law can be passed, which introduces the possibility of information on salaries, disclosure of earnings in the National Bank of Poland, but this must not affect any restrictions on remuneration or other restrictions in this institution. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of such laws always and everywhere, sooner or later ends in an economic disaster. This is what I'm warning you about. Incompetence and incompetence are often linked to poor pay, because bad decisions are made, especially during the economic downturn. I would like to warn you: the economic downturn is on its way. We have weaker economic growth in Poland, weaker economic growth in Germany, weaker economic growth in China. The conclusion is that this law should be rejected, especially in the context of the opinion sent by the European Central Bank. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u396	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Szczerba, PO-KO. One minute to question, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u397	High Izbo! We cannot talk about earnings in the National Bank of Poland without reference to reality. What's the reality? On 1 March, the lowest pension in our country will be PLN 1100 and the lowest salary - PLN 2200. We therefore ask the question as parliamentarians: Why are there institutions under special political protection, under a particular political umbrella, where wages are absolutely astronomical? It is remarkable that the ruling party presents a draft law which de facto secretes the earnings of directors in this institution in the years 2017 to 2018. Why is it that an experienced, long-standing NBP director is listed as director of Martyna Wojciechowska in the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Director of the Promotional Office is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u398	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this project is another government legislative trick. It's fast again and not quite with the idea. As I know life, in February we will be improving this project. These provisions do not take into account the need to disclose property claims. They may be disclosed if it is the will of the parties concerned themselves. We have submitted a project in which to disclose statements of property of public officials, not their earnings alone. The blackout of this whole situation is a 24-year publication of earnings. We do not agree to the absurd earnings of assistants, determined at the discretion of any president. Only competence, gentlemen. And President Glapiński, with his arrogance, provoked his own inconvenient questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u400	The question is asked by Mr Marek Rząsa, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sixty-five thousand. Is that a lot or a little? Compared to the millions we're dealing with, with the background of the ruling party, it may not be much, but on the other hand it's still very big money. That's the 63 lowest pensions you can collect for five years. That's the 84 lowest pensions you'd have to take for seven years. This is the 105 lowest welfare benefits that should be collected for 9 years. This is finally 361 nursing allowances, which should be collected for up to 30 years. The figures presented are the equivalent of a salary, which in just one month you hold a philologist, your assistant closely associated with the president of the most important central institution. Close to 80% Poles won't see this amount in their annual Drink, because they just don't make that much money, and your philologist hugs it every month. A teacher can only about such a salary [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dream on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u402	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask what is the relationship between salaries of employees of the National Bank of Poland and employees of the banking sector in Poland. I would also like to ask if the proposed regulations on the disclosure and influence of remuneration in the National Bank of Poland are in line with the GDPR Directive of the European Union. I am not asking about European Union rules on central banks in the countries of the European Union because we have already received this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u404	Thank you. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole problem was caused by the fact that the public received a message about very high, much above the average, in terms of directors of the National Bank of Poland, pay of two people. Instead of explaining this matter by the President of Glapiński in the manner of accessing public information, instead of addressing it, we are now making a bill which, it turns out, raises some doubts in terms of maintaining the independence of the central bank. We have a clear ECB opinion on this: the central bank should be independent. This includes independent employment formation and maintenance of these people, high-level specialists, at the central bank. Yesterday at the meeting, we couldn't figure out how many people were gonna be fired, whether they were gonna be fired or not. We have absolute confusion about this. I therefore agree with the proposal to postpone the matter until the bank fully explains to us whether it will have a negative impact on the bank's employment or not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] these negative effects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u406	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, PO-KO. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u407	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The public was shocked: the assistant to the President earns as much as the president of the National Bank of Poland. Surprising. He earns more than the first Vice President of the National Bank of Poland, earns more than members of the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland. That's what triggered the discussion. We wanted transparency. The Platform Club has submitted such a project on transparency, not wage formation. You went further, without a request, without an opinion on the notification of this project. Your marshal says Marshal Kuchciński knows that. If he knew, he'd take it back. If he knew, this formal proposal to withdraw this project would be carried out today. Today we're surprised. We want transparency without notification, and about GDPR... We are an example of the GDPR, we can submit information and our statements [[♪ The bell ♪]] they're public. Sixty-five thousand. For the assistant... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u408	I ask you to ask Mr Arkadius Myrch, the PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u409	The formal motion to withdraw is for your marshal to be put in your hands. I would also like to add that I am making a formal request to withdraw this project. Would you mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u410	No, ma'am, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u411	But the formal conclusion...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u412	Very good, sir. [[Voice from the room: The application is submitted.]] [[I'll wait.]] But in order for you to be able to file a formal motion, I should give you some time. Now is the time for Mr Myrch to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u413	Can you give me the time...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u414	Ma'am, please leave the stand. Please leave the podium. [[Voice from the hall: The speeches were already made.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u415	I wanted to sign up for a formal application. Did you accept him?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u416	Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u417	Did you accept him?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u418	Mr President, are you asking questions? [[Of course.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I read the text of the bill's report, I have the impression that it has been completely lost the essence of the problem that was caused a few weeks ago and which, after all, still lives public opinion. Only because of the stubbornness of President Glapiński, who made public information the most secure state secret. Namely, it is about how much the director of one of the departments responsible for communication earns. In fact, this problem could be solved in a simple way: to adopt projects of the Civic Platform on property claims. It is a project that even your Marshal Mazurek publicly supported, saying that he does not see any objections to it. The state, on the other hand, has begun to conspire, to set the remuneration grids. You have raised another dispute in the European Union. And we do not really know until today - and that is my question to the rapporteur - whether, on the basis of this draft law, we will know exactly how much in 2018. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You earned Director Martyna Wojciechowska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u420	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u421	High Izbo! All remuneration paid from public money should be made public. There are countries where every tax return, including a person who has nothing to do with public administration, is a public document. After all, taxes are a public penny, not only on the expenditure side, but also on the revenue side of the budget. And no one's gonna get the crown off their hands because of that. In matters which do not concern state secrecy, state defence or diplomacy, there is no reason for public disclosure to be as large as possible, including the long-term context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u422	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Because of the extraordinary earnings of the directors, we have a draft law on which we are grossly violating the rule of law. I want to draw attention to art. 3 where an obligation to inform citizens of the level of remuneration has been introduced since 1995. After all, you all know very well that the law does not work backwards. And this bill will go back 24 years. Should such lawmaking be a fundamental principle here? And the other thing. Public information introduced the Constitution in 1997 and then the 2001 Act, and we, without legal basis, are going back 24 years. [[Applause]] I'm asking you to reflect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[We reach Balcerowicz all the way. It'll be interesting. Let's not be afraid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u424	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u425	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not want to mention yesterday's multi-hour sitting, which ended actually after midnight today, after the adoption of many unknowns, questioned by the Legislative Bureau and yet overruled solutions. Nor should I mention that we have also repeatedly asked about the notification of the draft law, which we should have received before the substantive examination and decision-making on the proposal for amendments. We already know that this opinion - today we received - is negative. That is why I would like to know the government's position regarding these doubts raised by the European Central Bank, as set out in the opinion on this project, which I will remind you is negative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u426	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, what is the reason why some earnings are classified in the National Bank of Poland, since government ministers, MEPs, senators reveal their wealth? I don't see any reason here. It is an institution that is permanently cooperating with the government, implementing the government's financial policy, so there is no such reason here. Second thing. Since we are talking here about a monopoly in terms of its activities, because the National Bank of Poland is such a monopoly, the position taken by the public relations person or advertising in this institution could be compared to such a position in the Social Insurance Institution or in the tax office, because they are the same individuals who are monopolists when it comes to their operation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u428	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're here today to solve a case involving two ladies claiming to be making 65 grand. PLN per month. As one Member mentioned, it is an amount that is not available to most Poles on a yearly basis, but it is also worth adding that it is an amount that is close to what political parties, at least the biggest ones, receive from the state budget every day. It's about 50,000. PLN not every month, not every year, but every day. So PiS and PO get these funds from the state budget for the party subsidy so that they can come here and heroically solve the problems that we create ourselves. And here you can ask the question: Is this a perpetuum mobile, or is it a vicious circle? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u430	The question is asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill shows a model how the pathological state of the PiS works. For 3 years you will get used to us and all Poles that this country depends on one ordinary, gray man, a Member who can request everything on the phone. Well, for a few days now, you can see that, unfortunately, he can't ask for everything. He was disappointed by his closest collaborator from the Centre Agreement - President Adam Glapiński, who simply insisted and does not want to show how he pathologically favors two of his coworkers and hides income from Poles. But this is not the only part of the mess of your environment, because yesterday we learned that President Kaczyński's family also failed, who felt deceived and asked for explanations on this matter, and already all of Poland knows about it and will be very interested in it for the next time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u432	Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project prepared by the PiS clearly shows how the PiS solves pathologies in its ranks. Well, when they were awarded under the table to the members of the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, then, of course, wages were reduced, among others. For self-government, you've lowered yourself too. Now that there's a problem with exposing pathological wages to workers who certainly don't deserve them, you're obviously introducing a bill. It's such a soap of the eyes. You think society's gonna buy it? He won't buy, and already reaching back, showing 24 years - I don't know what it's supposed to do. It's just somebody's invented it, and it's still being repeated, and he's gonna come into the bill. I would like to hear what is the reasonable justification for this retreat, showing these 24 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u434	Member of Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the president, the rapporteur, to explain that this original, unusual feature of this law, which is going backwards, is its greatest advantage. This is the original way we lie to the languished thesis that for 3 years there has been lawlessness in Poland. You'll be surprised to see these lists and this disclosure. We have nothing to hide. To make an even more powerful comment, I'm going to say check it out, you can check it out today. There is no party or formation that has done more for transparency - for limitations we have not yet done enough - and it can be verified. Those are hard facts. And this bill... [[Okay.]] ...has this main advantage. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Tell me if there's a threat to the workers. They were used yesterday. Check the record of our committee meeting. We have expressed our comments and doubts. There's no permission for a private employee to lose a zloty, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u436	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. [[Not everything can be checked out.]] [[Lucky for you.]] [[Mrs. Wojciechowska's salary cannot be paid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are faced with such a situation that Law and Justice extinguishes the fire which was caused by the PiS. That is the truth, Mr Cymanski. You have appointed Mr.Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. So? And it turns out he can't keep standards. So you're making a bill to put out a fire. But there's a worse thing - this fire you're putting out with gasoline, unfortunately, because that's the way to look at it. to propose a reduction in statutory remuneration in a bank that plays a key role for the state and the economy. I absolutely cannot agree with this, that you, as part of such a socialist approach, would say that everyone has the same stomach, in a wicked way treat specialists. If you accept this bill, it's a threat of collapse I'd say... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the responsible function of the National Bank of Poland. I'm asking you to answer if you've even analyzed this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u439	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, It is true that we, Members of the Law and Justice, even though we are exposed to great criticism... [[Citizens.]] ...we're taking care of these things that voters are bringing in, and that's why we brought it in. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Was there any information on salaries in the National Bank of Poland in previous and current years? In view of the fact that the people of our country are demanding that we equalise the wages, eliminate these great chimneys, the coalitions of PO and PSL were trying to solve this very sensitive topic for society? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u440	Thank you very much. [[Formal conclusion.]] Now the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Noblecht, has the floor. [[And the formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal?]] Madam President, we have already discussed this. [[You didn't even participate in this part to...]] I heard that part. [[No, you didn't.]] You're welcome, sir. [[I'm gonna go in and I'm gonna stand there until you kick me out, and then you're gonna bring me back. It's okay. Please be prepared for this.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, a colleague wanted to file a formal application, but I would like to point out that the club took advantage of this opportunity during its speech. But I'm not interfering here. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards these questions which were addressed, almost two or three were addressed to the rapporteur, while the remaining questions were assessed or addressed to the authorities of the National Bank of Poland, and I do not assign myself the power to answer on their behalf. Mr Szczerba has shown here some comparison of the lowest pension with the salaries in the NBP. I think it has such a populist character, because neither the Sejm nor the Law and Justice Group shaped remuneration in the National Bank of Poland, so that it is not about the subject. Mr Furgo did not actually ask a question. Mr Marek Rząsa calculated these hypothetical salaries - not assistants, as far as I know - of the directors of the relevant organisational units. They weren't assistants, were they? So I don't depreciate, because everyone has their honor, their dignity. These ladies are qualified, educated. Converting it into numbers, pensions, it's kind of a propaganda thing. [[Voice from the room: A little?]] I want to talk so softly. We can convert it into buns, apples - how much tone it's going to be, etc. [[Let's count it.]] But I don't think that's the point. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska asks about the relationship between the salaries that exist in the National Bank of Poland in relation to commercial banks. Dear Member, this information was not provided at the committee meeting, not even by the bank's vice-president or the current director. There were very general statements on wage policy, whereas such comparisons did not exist, so I cannot relate to it. Marcin Święcicki spoke about the independence of employment and the setting of salaries. This is, of course, the project we are proposing, and there were also three projects. I wanted to refer to the situation that literally arose in the last, I don't know, hour or two. When I was in the Chamber listening to Minister Ziobra and other ministers speaking about the situation after this tragic event in Gdansk, it was said that there was information on the Internet that the European Central Bank had responded to the Marshal's request for notification. As rapporteur here, I did not have that knowledge. I carried out these duties, which were the responsibility of the president, and I reported the situation yesterday, and yesterday we did not even know that this was the case. So I think at the committee meeting, which will take place in about 20 minutes, we'll be able to talk about it again. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska recalls that she was shocked that the assistant president earns as much as the president. It's hard for me to relate to that, my friend Krystyna. Technically, they're former principals... [[Right.]] ...not an assistant, so this is... [[I said, Mr. Principals...]] I wrote it down: the assistant to the CEO earns as much as the president does. I don't know what multiples that are. There were different heights in the media. [[How about more?]] Maybe more, I don't want to speculate. Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha asks if on the basis of this project - I am thinking about the leading project - we can find out how much the director of the National Bank of Poland earns. If the proposed bill is adopted and implemented, on the basis of property statements in this respect... The Act mentions enumeratively which persons - the President, Vice-Presidents, members of the Management Board and directors of the posts listed in the Act - will be required to make declarations of property. And then, in fact, we will have that knowledge. I ask you, in general, the intention of all the applicants and applicants of our project, and of the ladies and gentlemen of the PO-KO Members, is to ensure that access to this information is guaranteed. So if there is an opinion of the European Central Bank now, it does not concern this lead project, it concerns all three projects. So that we take on ourselves equally as if this opinion and each project is subject to this assessment. But I read it briefly. This position of the European Central Bank is not categorical. It allows the possibility to shape these salaries under certain conditions. But it has to be justified, so he's ahead of us, members of the finance committee... [[Effort.]] ...there is still a legislative path for this project to be addressed, and it is wise to formulate the cases that we are referring to. That's how I'd see it for the moment. Mrs. Zofia Czernow. The honourable Member refers to the article. 3, to the obligation to inform about the amount of earnings in the years 1995 to 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot refer only to this moment, because if we selectively assess the relationship of these salaries, compare this, I do not know, to other positions of important people in the country, we must also refer to the past. The point is, is that it's a kazus? Only this year, these 2 and 3 years, whether this was the practice in the National Bank of Poland also in the previous period. I think, for this kind of transparency, if this comes into force, we can compare these salaries by applying some reference to average wages from 20 years ago, what was the remuneration of the president, vice presidents at that time, because comparing the remuneration from 20 years ago directly to the current one is burdened with, at least, the rate of inflation, the compound percentage, so it would be quite complicated. We also have a question for Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska about the notification. Yes, we have had this knowledge for probably an hour, and at the committee's meeting we will be able to address this new fact, which is the position of the European Central Bank. Mr Grabowski returns again - and rightly so, because it was as if the origin of these projects - to the remuneration of two directors, but here he introduces such abstract concepts of perpetuum mobile and a vicious circle. I can't relate to that. Mr Marek Owa spoke about the family of one of our fellow Members. I don't think it was a happy way to put these three bill projects into some kind of press enunciation relationship. Mr Józef Lassota said that the draft Law and Justice shows how the Law and Justice are dealing with certain issues. Mr President, your proposal also deals to a large extent with the same problem that is trying to solve this accident project adopted by the committee. You also wanted to know what the level of remuneration was. [[I'm waiting. I'm going in and I'm not going out.]] We're doing the same thing, we've only extended it to property benefits and enumerated positions. There is not much difference in intentions here, because intentions for all projects are, I think, common. The State from the Kukiz club15 proposed that the remuneration be shaped by the Marshal of the Sejm. This is clearly unconstitutional, which is why this project is lost in the Committee on Public Finance. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, a colleague of mine, asked whether it was worth going back and how wages have evolved over the last 23 years. [[Fair enough.]] If we want to fix this relationship, we need to see if it's just a matter of last year, two years. Did the remuneration in the National Bank of Poland in relation to the average salary, because this is the only way we can compare these relationships, 20 years ago looked different? What's it look like now? I think it would be good for analytical purposes to show it all. [[There are other aspects.]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń claims that our project reduces wages. Absolutely not. We're only in the case of certain positions... [[Category.]] ...as mentioned in the Act, we would like to propose this upper level of remuneration. [[A relationship.]] It aroused such emotions about this disclosure. [[Mr, but the upper level is a limitation.]] [[Indicators, indicators.]] Then there was an interpretation that this indicator of 0.6 times the salary... [[The president.]] ...the president goes downstairs for all posts. Even unionists... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Absolutely not. We set a ceiling only for certain positions, while the remuneration of the President, Vice-Presidents, members of the Management Board is based on the current rules, as is the case for persons covered by the so-called. An era. In addition, decisions taken by the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland by a resolution of this Management Board are added. These salaries will be shaped like this. We don't violate those rules. The autonomy of the National Bank of Poland in the field of wage formation in the case of these high positions is not violated here. So much for the questions I had. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Let's do this. Let's do this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u442	Thank you very much, sir. [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance concerning three parliamentary drafts for the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland. All three projects respond to recent media reports on the extremely high earnings of some employees of the National Bank of Poland. I am pleased that both the government and the opposition are in agreement with the legitimacy of resolving the doubts and objections raised by the public. The National Bank of Poland is an extremely important public institution, which must inspire confidence. These projects concern the introduction of transparency of executives' earnings in the NBP. Although during the work of the NBP Vice-President's committee, the bank is currently working on the wage net which the Management Board wants to make public, we believe that the introduction of new regulations guaranteeing transparency of remuneration is appropriate. Solutions are needed, which will not only rebuild the opinion of the National Bank of Poland, but also prevent similar controversy in the future. We believe that the solutions presented are the closest to meeting social expectations is a project submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which is why I think it is right to choose it as a leading project in the process. However, it is not ideal and requires amendments that will clarify it. Doubt is raised by a record limiting the level of management fees up to 60% the remuneration of the overall president of the bank. The exclusion from these regulations of vice presidents and members of the NBP Board is a step in the right direction, but the whole is still worrying me. I do not believe that such a solution limits the independence of the central bank, but I agree that it may be an obstacle to raising top qualified staff to the ranks of this institution. This argument is also in our view in favour of maintaining the provisions of the current NBP Act, which assumes that the remuneration in the bank takes into account the level of wages in the banking sector. However, I have no doubt that the National Bank of Poland is a very important part of the functioning of the state and as a public institution using public money should be transparent and inspire public confidence. Therefore, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u444	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection, objection. Formal conclusion.]] There's an objection. The Marshal has called the Senior Convention. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 18 hours 20 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We'll proceed with point eight of order... [[Mr Krystyna Skowrońska stands by the platform]] [[Can I make a formal conclusion?]] Madam President, we have already discussed this. [[Can I make a formal conclusion?]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm state that your conduct in the sitting room violates the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[No, you didn't. You didn't allow me to make a formal application.]] Member, please leave the stand. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But the Member raised an objection.]] Member, please leave the stand. Madam, are you going to occupy the speaker? [[Mr. Marshal, I've asked you to allow me to speak on a formal motion.]] Madam, will you leave the stand or not? [[You didn't give me the floor on the formal motion.]] Member, please leave the stand immediately. I'm calling a five-minute break. I'm gonna ask for an emergency... [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam, let's go to the committee meeting. Let's work.]] We'll be here by morning, thanks to Mrs... [[I asked for a formal motion and a vote.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 37 hours 20 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. Madame, will you leave the stand? [[Will the marshal allow me to speak on a formal application?]] Madam, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the House's deliberations... [[Please allow the formal application.]] ...the proceedings of the Sejm. Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[I asked you to allow me to file a formal application.]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I call you to order, and I find that you are preventing your deliberations from being held. [[Mr. Marshal didn't allow me to file a formal motion. You broke the rules.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 41 hours 20 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. Madame, you still do not allow your deliberations to be held. [[Mr. Marshal...]] On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the [[But why the stubbornness, Marshal? Let it go, and that's it.]] ...I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm. [[Applause]] Please leave the courtroom. [[Well, that's beautiful. That's a very good move.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What problem is it to speak? You're embarrassing yourselves, and then you're embarrassing yourselves.]] [[Then why don't you move so gently?]] [[No, sir.]] Madam, will you leave the sitting room? I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 42 hours 20 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. After talking to the representative of your club, I felt that, for the sake of further deliberations, I would withdraw your exclusion from the proceedings. Please leave the podium. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: What about fines?]] [[Next time I'll be filing formal applications.]] We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and some other laws (prints No 3045 and 3150). I ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u445	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs met at its meeting on 17 January 2019 to give an opinion on the amendments tabled by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, which were legislative amendments, to the government draft law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and certain other laws, the Parliamentary printing No 3045. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, in a telegraph way, I would like to say this, concerns the granting of powers, the allocation of powers to the President of the Council of Ministers to the possibility that, in certain cases, after consulting the various heads of ministries, with ministers, he may award financial prizes for outstanding achievements, whether in the field of sport or in the field of culture or in other areas, prizes which will be financed by the state budget. Five amendments were tabled during the committee meeting. The Commission has decided to accept three of them, two of which are proposed to be rejected. These three amendments are technical, you could say, rather grammatical. Two amendments had already entered into substance, but the committee - 24 votes in favour, 4 votes against - decided to reject these amendments. The three amendments have decided to accept. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u446	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I will appeal to your Members for a brief statement. This, of course, is just an appeal. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Piotr Kalet.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to speak briefly in response to your Marshal's request to make these comments short. The justification for this law is basically what I gave earlier as rapporteur for the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. This law is a short, basically 4-Article law. As I said, it gives the President of the Council of Ministers the opportunity to award prizes for outstanding achievements. However, since the procedure of this law is in some way prolonged, the point at issue in the committee's work, but also after the committee's work is the date of implementation of the law, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I wanted to make an amendment, Mr Marshal, which is about the date of implementation, the entry into force of this law. However, I would like to point out that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u448	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Grzegorz July. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Minister, we still have the same doubts that we have already expressed when we first read this law, because we already signaled them at that time. Well, all indications are that the entire proposed law is mainly so that the President of the Council of Ministers can ride around the country regularly and present these wonderful special awards. We have no delusions, of course, that there will be carrots for elections in the form of special prizes, but there is a mechanism that will be like a carrot field, as Lady Pank used to sing, not just single carrots. In the committee it was proposed, as you probably remember, a change in the draft law, i.e. the deletion of funding from the general budget reserve and the creation of a financing mechanism from the budget of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Well, it didn't work then, most of the committee thought that the funds would be too low for these prizes. Therefore, we should light up such a red pre-election lamp, because this is probably necessary in such a situation. Many unkind people say that the Prime Minister has promised something about special awards to a certain group of athletes, but when it turns out that they can do this, that is to pass these awards, only ministers, there is a need to change the entire law. Of course, we do not believe this because we value the honesty of the President of the Council of Ministers, but we are concerned about the Prime Minister's little trust in the Minister of Sport, the Minister of Culture and the Protection of National Heritage and the Minister of Science and Higher Education. We still do not know how many of these special awards have been awarded so far, what are the Prime Minister's reservations about the work of ministers and their official apparatus, but there are certainly some, if he wants to do so personally, Prime Minister Morawiecki. Last time I saw such a beautiful picture, you may have seen on Twitter, President of Kosiniak-Kamish with Prime Minister Morawiecki: two smiling politicians squeeze their hands under such a slogan, hashtag Peace Mark. Now you can suppose that we will see quite a lot of such pictures of a smiling prime minister with a smiling scientist, a smiling athlete, a smiling active cultural animator in many counties, in many municipalities. We'll see quite a lot of peace signs like that. This is the year 2019, this is the year of the double campaign, and the European Parliamentary, and parliamentary, and again this money from our taxes will be used for the purpose of this election campaign. Everyone seems to be used to it, but such records were not valid for the Prime Minister in 2016, neither in 2017, nor in 2018. Suddenly, they were needed in 2019. Therefore, we have very serious concerns that it will not only be the most outstanding Poles in these several fields of science, sport or culture, because, if it were so, there are still statutory provisions giving powers to ministers. In fact, this is probably about handing another electoral tool over to the Prime Minister. After all, Minister Bianca could also give special prizes to Polish volleyball players. It is unnecessary for this mechanism that the President of the Council of Ministers grants special awards after consulting the Minister for outstanding scientific or sporting achievements in precisely those areas I have been talking about. Really. Minister Bianka could, and above all, should be dealing with such matters, although from what we read, he is going to a world anti-doping organization, I hope it is not for this reason. He's got the right camera, and he's gonna make it. Shouldn't the Prime Minister of Gliński or Prime Minister of Gowin present the prizes? After all, they are the closest associates of the President of the Council of Ministers. So? And they don't want to give awards to people pointed out by the Prime Minister? It's hard to believe. We will therefore want to make this amendment again so that the money for the prizes is, however, from the budget of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. This will be a test of credibility for you, for the ruling group, because if this amendment were accepted, we would be conditionally willing to believe in the good intentions of the legislator. However, if this is from the general reserve, our doubts will increase. Unless the Prime Minister always wants to show us who's in charge. Therefore, everything I had to say to you, I said. We will appeal again at the committee meeting. I'm putting an amendment into the hands of your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u450	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm following your Marshal's request. There will be a brief position. I have the honour to give my position on prints 3045 and 3150 on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. It is specifically a law that gives the President of the Council of Ministers the opportunity to award prizes. I want this to be very clear: we believe that all those who contribute to the promotion of Poland achieve outstanding results in terms of sport, education, science, to any extent that promotes our homeland deserve it and should be able to benefit from special awards, which they already have today. Well, ministers can give such awards, which is why we believe that this is a bad solution, in which the President of the Council of Ministers will basically have an unlimited budget for the award of prizes, in addition to the election year. For this reason, the Kukiz Club15 will recommend voting against this bill to its Members. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u452	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Innocent-sounding amendment of the Act on the Council of Ministers can, in particular, carry many traps this year, for which the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, which in the government version at first reading almost unconditionally supported it, would give its consent. My club does not deny the prerogative of the President of the Council of Ministers in honoring those who deserve special distinctions for special, exceptional circumstances that directly justify the award of a special prize. We are also in favour of a statutory provision exempting special prizes from the obligation to pay personal income tax. We support the abolition of the obligation to include the amount of the special prize in the income used to determine the right to cash benefits from social assistance. Neither in the past have we stood, nor are we currently opposed to any government proposals, parliamentary initiatives that motivate innovation, which means directly motivating people for their particular, above-average, outstanding achievements both in science and in particular in the field of sport, which we are hot advocates. With regard to the project under discussion today, we are guided both by the reason of the state and reasonableness, taking into account the cases of abuse by the government of public funds during the upcoming election campaigns, when it will be easy to justify with childishness that every case was caused by an extraordinary purpose and by all reasonable reasons. To avoid this effectively, we are in favour of a very simple, logical and socially acceptable solution, so that the President of the Council of Ministers can award such a prize, but from the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. This solution will be the simplest solution to achieve the objectives set out in the proposed legislation, but which will give clarity to public spending, regardless of the duration of the granting of benefits under the draft law. All other conditions for granting special benefits in the form of prizes will remain unchanged, and the public authorities themselves, if I do not doubt that they have good goals, will remain outside the sphere of suspicion. On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, the Marshal's hand I am making an appropriate amendment. In such a edited version, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats is ready to vote in support of the bill. I'm submitting a draft amendment to the marshal's hand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Act on the Council of Ministers and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns the introduction of rules that will enable the President of the Council of Ministers to award prizes to natural persons for their particular achievements in sport, culture, national heritage conservation or scientific achievements. Of course, it is right to reward such achievements, those who have these achievements - on the one hand, these rewards allow us to appreciate the effort and undoubtedly those who achieve such outstanding results deserve it, on the other hand it is also, in a sense, the motivation that affects the fact that such people can be more. It is not surprising, then, that such regulations already exist in almost today. Well, individual ministers, individual ministries, e.g. in the field of sport, culture or science, they have the opportunity to award such awards for outstanding achievements. We have had numerous examples of whether it was for outstanding sporting achievements, as I said, or for outstanding achievements in the field of science. I must say that we are surprised to learn about this project, because it is a project that introduces a superat in this area for the President of the Council of Ministers. This is quite, I would say, a fine solution, because de facto the President of the Council of Ministers does not supervise such detailed, sketchy tasks, i.e. does not supervise sport, culture. There is a mechanism through which Law and Justice wants to create such a super-premier office. I am talking about this because this is another example of a law that conveys to the Prime Minister the competences that have been in the Ministry's hands so far, and it is good that they were in the Ministry's hands, because that is exactly what the division of tasks between individual government institutions is all about. This law in the election year, when there are elections to the European Parliament and later in the autumn, parliamentary elections, creates a mechanism by which the Prime Minister will be able to campaign. Let's face it, this election campaign of Law and Justice will be financed by the funds that will be used for prizes. How will this work? Well, the Prime Minister, like during the local government campaign, will ride around cities, ride in smaller, larger towns and give gifts. Here it will distinguish one person, there it will distinguish another person, it will of course be published in various media, on public television and it will create such an impression that here is the great host who makes a farm visit in place X, giving the hosts for outstanding achievements. This, of course, is contrary to the principles of a democratic rule of law, contrary to the principles of... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] [[That's bullshit.]] Right. Against principles, I would say, common sense, where the Prime Minister, the State, should fulfil and carry out those tasks which are appropriate to ensure the proper conditions for the functioning of citizens. On the other hand, I would say that distinctions for outstanding achievements are indeed possible and are implemented by ministers competent for these specific areas, i.e. for sport, culture, etc. To the end, I would like to say that we, the project that creates the super prime minister's office, will absolutely not support it. We believe that today's regulations are right for a modest, yet appreciative state of its citizens, those who spend their time, are determined and successful in their fields. The solutions that exist today are quite sufficient to meet the demands contained in the explanatory memorandum of this law, and the proposal which today is the subject of the High House is absolutely not necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u456	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and some other laws following the work on this project in committee. As I said in the debate at the first reading of this project, I believe that the solutions contained in it are needed and will serve Polish society. It is important to appreciate and properly honor the unique and outstanding achievements of Poles, and this is what this amendment is for. According to its provisions, the President of the Council of Ministers, in specific cases, after consulting the Minister concerned, will be able to award special prizes for extraordinary scientific, sporting or cultural achievements and the protection of national heritage. As the opponents of these regulations say, four other ministers can now award similar awards. However, I share the view that specific situations require specific solutions, and these are the ones contained in the amendment that is being discussed today. I also agree with the opinion that the funds granted by the President of the Council of Ministers should come from the provision of the general budget of the State, as it has been recorded in the original submission from the beginning. It would be difficult to predict how many prizes a prime minister would have in a given year. The unpredictable and uncertain nature of the prizes precludes me from placing them in a separate section of the budget. Most doubts at first reading were raised by the date of entry into force of the Act. A new deadline, 14 days from the day of the announcement, does not raise my objections. In my opinion, the question of allowing the President of the Council of Ministers to award the awards referred to in this amendment should not give rise to much doubt. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u458	Thank you very much. Ten ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question will be asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask the Minister: For what reasons should the special prizes of the President of the Council of Ministers be paid out of funds that are included in the provision of the general budget of the State? At the committee meeting, we did not get any convincing explanations from the Minister, moreover, his insistence on this solution, which, I will remind you, was also criticised by the legislative office, in fact, instigates in us some kind of suspicion that these awards will be an electoral tool. You already have at your disposal an exceptionally high, record budget of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, but you are still reaching for the reserve, which at this point still contains additional funds. It seems that you are trying to save in this bill the source of funding for prizes, which is supposed to be bigger simply so that the Prime Minister can award these prizes even more freely. Minister! Four ministers already have the right to grant [[♪ The bell ♪]] The prizes... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u460	Mr President, time is up. Step out of the podium, please. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, I do not fully understand why we should create another office that will have the opportunity to award prizes to athletes. As we know, the reason for this law was that the Prime Minister promised the Polish volleyball players a prize for success at the World Championship, but he did not know that he could not grant it. And that's why we have an amendment. That's why we have a bill. But after all, we have a Polish National Foundation, which fits in perfectly. This is the foundation that was to deal with the promotion of Poland in the world, [[Applause]] And here we are talking about people who promote Poland in the world. Now, the next question is: If this law comes into force, how do we want to pay our nethers at all if the law doesn't work backwards? If it works backwards, maybe it should include other Poles who have been very successful, such as. Paweł Pawlikowski, winner of the Oscar for the Idea, [[Applause]] which also qualifies for such an award. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u462	Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding with a government bill amending the Act on the Council of Ministers and some other laws. As regards the principle of awarding prizes in specific, justified cases, I am on yes. But this bill doesn't talk about the amount of prizes, the size of prizes. This bill talks about the financially unlimited competence of the Prime Minister who gets a well with no bottom, which is 0.2%. the provision of the general budget of the State, which I will remind you of, is intended to finance expenditure not provided for in the Budget Act, which is caused by consequences, by random events. My question: Why didn't you, Prime Minister, indicate the funds in your budget, in the budget of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister? What are the criteria, and who can apply for these awards? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the third question... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: You have to get used to it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u464	Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law gives the President of the Council of Ministers the opportunity to award special prizes from the general budget reserve, which for 2019 amounts to 240 million. This is a large pool to be used and it is justified that the amount and amount of prizes cannot be estimated. There are no criteria for granting them, and it is not known what rules this will be under, at whose request, the maximum amount will be. All we know is that the prize will be awarded for outstanding achievements. Who will define and determine what is an outstanding achievement? Will the only criterion be the discretion of the President of the Council of Ministers? Sports and athletes like clear, precise and simple rules. Sport, Prime Minister, is fair play, and in 2018 you made commitments to Polish athletes, athletes and volleyball players, without having the mechanisms to fulfil your commitments. Is today's bill a lex sport, lex volleyball? On this basis, will you pay the promised prizes to volleyball players in 2018? Or other distinguished athletes for outstanding [[♪ The bell ♪]] Achievements... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u466	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Giving power to the President of the Council of Ministers, by requiring him to consult the Minister, still puts the Head of Government in a position less autonomous than the positions of the individual Heads of Ministers. Again, I ask the question: shouldn't things be sorted out more radically, e.g. By making the decision on the prize conditional solely on the Prime Minister, on his will, or by issuing it at the request of the Minister? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u468	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What this bill is for, my colleagues have already said. This is obviously an election campaign, a handout. PiS likes to give away money, sometimes it doesn't make sense, but... [[Voice from the room: Take it.]] Take it, of course, yes. But I think it's worth thinking - maybe someday normal times will come back, probably soon, maybe next year will be different. [[Applause]] - which is a deficit in the state today. There is a serious social capital deficit. Shouldn't we think about rewarding such attitudes, such activities as those designed to build civil society? Because that's a very serious problem today. I know that for you, for the PiS side, this is an unknown concept at all, but civil society really is the basis for a good functioning of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u470	Mr Marek Owa, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We know from Morawiecki's tapes that the Prime Minister, while still president of the bank, was able to award 50, 70 or even 100,000 at dinner. zł. There wasn't any... [[Where was it?]] But he was not always so generous, because I remind you that from these Morawiecki tapes we also know that he was glad that the Pole promoting Poland on the arena of the whole world in Formula 1 broke his arm and that he would not have to spend several million zlotys. Today I am surprised that the Prime Minister is updating the bill, because it would be easier to cancel four ministers. Then, as Prime Minister, he would assume the constitutional responsibilities of individual ministers and could award these grants, these awards without amending the law. This is a really unnecessary bill. Let us not take away work from those who should be responsible for it, because today's legislation provides for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u472	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about limits, because for a good cause... I know that Prime Minister Morawiecki is used to turning big money, so first you armed him with several billion, for which he can buy companies, if he likes them, without a limit, and now it turns out that you're going to add money from the budget reserve, also without a limit, to give them away to different people, driving around and making an election campaign. Aren't you overreacting? You don't put any restrictions here at all. So, if you have so much money, why don't you give it to the civil courts or give it to the teachers? Maybe it'll be better spent money. Mr. Marshal, I'll be done in time not to strain your finger. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u474	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! If you don't accept our amendment, we're against it. For what reason? First of all, you're unlucky for prizes, and sometimes they come out with your nose. But to be perfectly clear, I will only remind you of the gold medal of the country's defense for Bartłomiej M. He got an award from the minister, and probably a bonus, and a medal, and what happens to him? He's gone, three months away. Mr. Marshal! This is absolutely outrageous because we know who will receive these awards. We know who was the Liberty Man of the SkOKs, other weeklys: Julia Przyłębska, who de facto killed the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal, Piotr Gliński, who is currently winding up the European Solidarity Centre, not granting the right grant, or Jarosław Kaczyński, who is no man of freedom. He just turned out to be an agile, smart political developer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u476	Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! A few months ago, at a meeting with volleyball players, the Prime Minister committed himself to awarding a monetary prize, hence my question: Minister, is it true that at that time the Prime Minister had no right to make such a promise? That is a promise that the Prime Minister will have the right to make only after the amendment of this law has been adopted. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u478	We've exhausted the list of speakers. The committee rapporteur Mr Piotr Kaleta will now speak. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u479	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you very much for the ovations that are already before the beginning of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping this would be a discussion about the bill, that this discussion would be pleasant, that it would not turn into this search for a second bottom. This is a law which, in my opinion, should be adopted long ago, regardless of the fact that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki is the President of the Council of Ministers at the moment. Such powers should already be given to previous prime ministers. And why is that? And that's because, ladies and gentlemen, anything to say, we're raising the rank of such a prize. Of course, without taking anything from the ministers' offices... [[The voice from the room: But let's give it to the president too.]] The Member says to give the President. The president can give awards, which means he's already got his prizes. I do not acknowledge anything to the ministers, but I think you will agree that it is more pleasant to hear whether this award raises a certain prestige if this award is awarded by the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, regardless of what category we would be talking about here. Mr Grzegorz July said that with the eyes of imagination - briefly, Mr President, I say with the eyes of imagination - you see the Prime Minister who drives and distributes these prizes. But I do not know whether you know that it may turn out that Mr Grzegorz July will be asked by the Chancellery of the Prime Minister to present this award on behalf of the Prime Minister. It could happen. Admit it yourself. After all, you can also award some prizes or a diploma or a book or some kind of recognition from a Member. But that doesn't mean that this prize is worth it. Of course, not to mention anything to you, sir. In this connection, I think that maybe because of the short parliamentary term you have not read the substance of this law. I would like to say that, as an MEP, you will also be able to apply for such a reward. [[What does that tell you?]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń was gracious to say that the Prime Minister has no supervision over the ministers. Mr President, if I have understood you correctly, and I think it is well, because I have even noted your statement, it is nothing more wrong. How can the Prime Minister not supervise the minister? [[You misunderstood.]] Then there must have been a misunderstanding in this political struggle with such a small bill, because I cannot imagine that such words could come from an experienced parliamentarians. Mrs Iwona Krawczyk asked how many prizes there would be. I hope to say this not only on my behalf, but also on behalf of all parliamentarians, not only the Law and Justice, but also of all countries who are sitting here, that these prizes will be very much, that these prizes will be so much that we will be able to be so proud of the achievements of Poles, especially in the international arena, that really these measures will need a lot. After all, Mr Ziółkowski, if I remember correctly, mentioned the reward, the Oscar he was... And, ladies and gentlemen, let's imagine that the Pole gets once again the award of the Academy of Film Art, that Poles will receive the Nobel Prize. Until it is asked, I ask you, for a reward, which will be the Prime Minister's prize, not the individual ministers' prize. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps at the end: Mr Lassota says that PiS is giving away money without meaning. It doesn't require a comment, because it's a comment itself, it's an unworthy statement, which shouldn't come from this speaker. In this bill... If we want to appreciate the special involvement of Polish citizens, the special involvement of athletes, people of culture, social activists, if the policy of the Civic Platform is to say that it is distribution and it is money that makes no sense, then really, Mr. And such statements from a parliamentarian's mouth in this place should not be made. [[Voice from the room: What are the criteria?]] Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u480	Thank you very much. We would like to refer to item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on Parliamentary draft laws on: - amendment of the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, - amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, - amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions. I would like to inform you that the opposition to the referral of the bill to the committee has been withdrawn, and therefore the Sejm has again addressed the draft to the Committee on Public Finances in order to submit a report. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and some other laws. The Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Paweł Szrot, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur, Mr Kaleta, has already answered a large part of the questions that Members have tabled. I just wanted to... If I repeat what the rapporteur has said, I am sorry, but I would like to make it very clear that the special prize of the President of the Council of Ministers is to be a special award, awarded in specific situations which are unpredictable, granted for specific achievements. And you must admit that, in the hierarchy of offices of the Republic of Poland, however, a Member from the Minister... the President of the Council of Ministers from the Constitutional Minister stands much higher. And this form of honoring particular achievements will be an even greater expression of respect for those who deserve this form. Yes, those questions have already been asked. Four ministers have the right to give such awards as part of their activities. They are ministers: science and higher education, sport, culture and national heritage and family. On the other hand, I repeat: There are and there will be such situations in the future when showing respect and honor will require a level higher than that of the ordinary constitutional minister. As regards specific questions, questions were asked as to why the general reserve of the President of the Council of Ministers and not the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Wójcik, by the way, asked why this is not included in the increase in the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. I'm just reminding you of what I said when I was working on the budget. This increase in the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers is, it can be said, partly apparent, partly justified by the adoption of new institutions, the creation of one new institution, as well as to a large extent increases for the employees of the budgetary sphere. Hence this small, 18 percent increase, this is not any financial loosening. But why the general reserve? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This general reserve is a proven institution that has been operating for many, many years, and its idea is that the President of the Council of Ministers can have these funds on a discretionary basis. Of course, after meeting the criteria, as well as here. [[Voice from the room: What kind of voices?]] On the other hand, this money is spent on investment purposes in general, and no one has questioned it so far. The special award of the President of the Council of Ministers will now come to these criteria as a special provision, and it is therefore justified that this award is to be covered from this source. And we cannot support this amendment, which eliminates this source as a source of a special prize. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as specific questions are concerned, actually Mr Kalet has already answered most of the questions. To answer only the last question, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, I just wanted to say what I said at the committee meeting: the Prime Minister keeps his promises always. [[But then he had no right.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept my explanations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u482	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Foreign Affairs submitted a report on a draft government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996, print No 3173. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on: - a parliamentary bill amending the Law on Higher Education, - a government proposal for a parental supplemental service law. The reports shall be printed in no 3189 and 3172 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government draft law on parental supplementary services (prints 3157 and 3172). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft parenting supplemental provision law, print 3157, report of the committee - print 3172. This project is an expression of the concern of the Government of Law and Justice about the poorest citizens, seniors, including parents in families of many children. The aim of the Act is to provide means of subsistence for those who have resigned or have not taken it because of the raising of four and more children. The proposed regulation sets out the terms and conditions for granting and the rules for paying and financing parental supplementary benefit. This will be a non-contributory benefit of a special nature designed to combat the poverty of this group of persons and will be granted on request and, as a rule, will be paid by the Social Insurance Institution, the KRUS and other pension bodies paying pensions. The draft proposes that the Act enter into force on 1 March 2019 so that the benefits are paid in a new, higher amount, taking into account the valorisation of the lowest pension as from 1 March 2019. High Izbo! The project entered the Sejm on 22 January 2019 and on 3 September 2018 the draft law was submitted to the social partners for their opinion. On 23 January, the draft was referred to the first reading of the Sejm. The Sejm held its first reading today at its 77th meeting and in accordance with Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Marshals of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. At today's meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, amendments to this project were tabled. And yes, the amendment to the article. Point 2 (1) and the consequence of this amendment - Article. Point 4 has been welcomed by the committee and concerns the extension of the subject-matter circle of persons entitled to parental supplementary benefit to those caring for children in the framework of family foster care. All editorial and legislative amendments were also welcomed. On the other hand, the committee had negative opinions on 5 amendments which, in accordance with the wishes of the applicants, had been submitted as minority proposals. And yes, Amendment 1 concerns the addition of a new wording to the paragraph. Article 2 1. Minority's motion No 1 must be voted with minority's motion No 5. In Amendment No 2, applicants propose to make a new wording. Minority proposal No 2 should be voted in conjunction with proposal No 4. Amendment 3 concerns a new wording. [[But about what?]] The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this draft law at its meeting today, asks the Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u484	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anita Czerwińska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law in print 3157 and the amendments adopted today by the committee, contained in the report in print 3172. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u486	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u487	High Izbo! Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Today, actually tomorrow, because probably after midnight, the vote will begin. So tomorrow we will accept at the third reading. What is the reason for such a rapid process on this bill, as on many others, concerning the electoral code, subscription fees, transparency of remuneration in the National Bank of Poland, at an additional convened meeting, in a sudden manner, actually without any justification for such rapid procedure over all these draft laws. I think it is a disrespectful and slow death of parliamentarianism in Poland. Half a thousand people - I also think about the people who work here, about the Post Office, about the Office of Sejm Analysis, about the secretariats of the committee; there are probably more than half a thousand people working there - from day to day there are notified of changes, subsequent transfers, subsequent shortenings, further extension of Sejm meetings. I am talking about this with great regret, because this also applies to the bill we are discussing here. It was difficult not to predict how the members of the governing party would accept amendments, which appearances - appearances - settling and helping the families of many children put them together and as if they were fixing them, making them real. It has not been stated that we have, who have worked and raised not only four, but often more children, and have earned ourselves a pension, can get more wages, i.e. we will reward work, a great job, because also with children, and a professional who has allowed us to work for retirement. [[Applause]] This amendment did not pass, do not applaud, 30% of the benefit. It, attention, can be granted properly discretionaryly. The information we received during the second reading from the Minister shows one thing: it relates to pensions and pensions granted on a special basis. The Minister's entire argument confirmed our doubts about the fact that benefits are not mandatory, that they are optional, discretionary. In my opinion, in this connection, the issue of the date of entry into force and speeding up the work on this project is completely irrational at this point. If you go through what you're talking about on this understated scale, how do you imagine an individual examination of 86,000? applications for this benefit, which will enter the Social Security Office and the CRUS? The Act shall enter into force on 1 March. Indeed, gentlemen, discretion, moreover, discrimination against fathers contrary to the judgment of the Court of Justice and the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case. Such provisions must be notified, contrary to the treaties we have signed, to European Union law, discriminate against fathers. Effect? All these amendments were rejected. What do you say? Good intentions are worth writing down good bill designs, and this one is not. Therefore, I do not think that my club has decided to accept such solutions. We will consider whether or not to abstain. This law is wrongly written, selective, discriminatory and unfair. Good intentions are not enough, you also need knowledge and skills. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u488	Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The next speech I made on Print Act 3157 on Parental Supplementary witnessing doesn't really change anything about the position of the club. We still believe that a defined goal, which is to honor mothers, is not exactly a good goal when it comes to shaping social policy, although we understand this approach and we believe that a solidarity society is a society that cares primarily for the family, but also for those women who, in various legal solutions, have been left out and raised their children. By 1999, they had not been able to get paid leave, parental leave, so they were often looking forward to retirement benefits. Hence, we believe that this witness will be fair to them. On the other hand, some members of our club, after various discussions on these solutions, have doubts not because of the purpose of this law, but because we have not had a serious discussion on the reform of the insurance system in this Parliament or in previous years, and we give something to this particular group that we believe is affected, but we do not care about the next generations that enter the labour market and unfortunately enter this market with a feeling of uncertainty about their pension. And we're also talking about young moms here, we're talking about women who start their careers and don't know if they're gonna decide to have a baby because they don't know if the ZUS is really gonna pay them benefits in the future. What we are proposing - and we want you to finally discuss it - is a fair approach to these issues. We propose that Poles, mothers, fathers, pensioners, pensioners, all working people have more money in their pockets, so that they will have what the CSO has calculated for their lives, or 1,400 PLN. Let's raise the tax-free amount, so let's not charge the minimum social tax to at least 17,000, let's talk about pension taxation, because this is a very important issue, and finally let's start a cross-party work on a citizen's pension that will be fair and will ensure the safety of all people for older years, and at the same time allow those who have an active working life to live this professional life to live, save and have more benefits, save for retirement. So part of our club is probably going to abstain because we're still proceding laws that are random that don't deal comprehensively with old age pension insurance issues. And we really want to finally take this discussion and talk about future generations, and not all the time stuck in a place that makes really sure that many young people have no pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u490	Thank you. Mr Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u491	Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let me put it this way: since 2011, a number of good social policy laws have been carried out in this Chamber with coalition and opposition votes. We argued and prepared a good law: 12 months of parental leave, lawn mowers, and since 2015 there has also been a principle: gold for gold and, if I'm not mistaken, we all voted in favour of good laws together. Today, when we started proceding this law, I was so convinced that we would find an agreement, because when I talked to some of my fellow Members, I saw that there was a desire to improve this law and to make it just, legitimate, in particular, in terms of women's reward, who, in addition to raising children, do work, and in particular, the situation when they raise a disabled child, because each of us realizes that raising a disabled child is not only more expensive but also labour-intensive and requires a greater sacrifice of parents. That is why I am a little surprised at the course of the committee meeting and the responses of your Deputy Minister of Labour, and although I would not like this to be the case, I am convinced that this regulation that you have prepared promotes the principle that it does not pay to work. And that's the wrong direction. This is simply a bad direction, because the wealth of society does not cause children, but - as I said in the previous speech - ethos and the need for work. Therefore, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats has prepared appropriate amendments, which concern support for women who, in addition to raising children, have also engaged in professional work, in particular women whose families were disabled children, and we are also making an amendment for women retired from the EWK. Even if these amendments are not adopted today, it is really worth considering and taking a decision that will support 33,000. women who after 20 years of work - I repeat: after 20 years of work - receive a benefit of PLN 700.800. Such amendments have been prepared and I am counting on the support of at least some of my friends from the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Law and Justice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are very fast, so to speak, a very efficient discussion about this bill, but this is what we have stressed from the beginning, that there is a great lack of discussion and debate about the system - and the social welfare system, and the pension system. Because we're going to solve the problem of one group of people, over 80,000. Women, this is a drop in the sea of needs, these problems are much more: these are the low pensions of women and now, and in the future, these are low benefits for carers of people with disabilities, this is the issue of EWK pensions. And now it's like showing one group of people that you notice them, you don't turn a blind eye to their problems, but when it comes to all the other groups that might somehow change this system, you don't see their problems anymore. This bill is not written optimally, to say the least. First of all, because it introduces inequality between men and women. At the committee meeting, I took over the amendment of the social side, the Institute of Civil Affairs, which runs the social campaign, home is work, and asked for an amendment that would equal the rights of men and women in this bill. [[The rights of men and women, not men and women.]] Women and men, men and women, we exchange how we exchange. Second line. I am very pleased that we have adopted the amendment on foster care, it is really a move in the right direction, while there are still no solutions that would tell women and men who raised four children and more and who worked at that time: your work and dedication were as worth the work and sacrifice of those who, for various reasons, could not or did not want to take up this employment. And this salary, honoring this effort is absolutely unnoticeable in this bill. It's over 700,000. women who have struggled to combine these two responsibilities. This bill also does not say in any way how to activate women so that they want to return to the labour market, how to create an institutional childcare system, so that they can choose or reconcile the social roles they want to play, how to make it possible, also by working, to combine these social roles. Therefore, it is a very random treatment of the law, random treatment of the problem without system solutions in every aspect. We therefore make this amendment and support the minority proposals previously made by the Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u494	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Freedom and Solidarni, I present my position on the report of the committee on the draft parenting act to supplement it. The opposition is trying hard to reduce the importance, the value of this project. The truth is, however, that the current government is the first to appreciate the effort of unpaid domestic work, honors those who have born and raised or raised at least four children, by granting them a supplemental allowance of the lowest pension if they have not been able to earn this pension on their own. The rules are designed so that they are addressed to mothers in the first place. However, it is important that they do not exclude the collection of this benefit by fathers who, by taking long-term care of at least four children, have not taken up employment and have not worked out a pension of the lowest amount paid by the pension authority. I consider it very appropriate to extend the circle of persons entitled to receive the benefit referred to in the project to those taking care of children in the framework of family foster care. I trust that in the years to come, if the budget allows, the beneficiaries of this project will continue to expand - perhaps there will be people raising three children among them. I know it takes time. One minute you can't satisfy everyone's needs, which doesn't mean you have to sit back and wait. I am convinced that the aid under this project will go to the most in need, for which additional and often only PLN 1000 is the amount that changes everyday life. I do not think that it will allow for a prosperous and peaceful life, but I know that it will help the poorest. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u496	Thank you very much. One Member came to the questions... [[There are still questions.]] ... Alicia Chybick, Civic Platform Club. I'm closing the list of questions. There's another question. I'm setting a question time for one minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you if the mother who pays her pension and raised four children would be the beneficiary of this bill. And the second question that has already been asked here many times. However, this law does not promote women who raised four children and at the same time worked, which, you can believe, is certainly a huge effort compared to the very raising of children. But shouldn't it be as the Civic Coalition amendment said, that these people will also be appreciated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u498	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u499	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I come from a large family, my mom raised us four, four children, and I have to say that I don't think anyone can say more than a woman who raised four children and at the same time put up with work. That's what my mom used to do. And I would like to ask the Law and Justice: Why do you divide the women who raised four children into those women who did not work and raised their children, and for whom is this law, and those women who raised their children and put up with it, and who are absolutely ignored by you? I don't think it's right. I know how much my mom cost this heroic attitude to raise her four kids and work at the same time. I ask you: Why do you treat these heroic mothers who combine their work with their upbringing in such a way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u500	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u501	I have two questions. First question to the Minister. The Minister spoke very much about justice during the committee meeting. I would like to ask the Minister: Is it fair that a woman who owns a farm or works in the economy has four, five, six children and works very hard will receive a pension of a similar amount, actually the same amount as a person, a woman who has never worked professionally? Is that fair, Minister? KRUS pensions are very low. On the other hand, the second question specifically concerns Article. 3 (1) (a) 5. Under this law, will the mother whom the court deprived of parental authority receive the benefit of the law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, maybe not. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u502	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Zielenecki has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u503	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Most of the questions concerned the objectives of this law, the ratio legis, sense. I will repeat what I said today and during the plenary session of the Sejm, and during the committee meeting I spoke about it. In fact, I think that the numbers are able to show, speak, show what social problem is solved by this bill, which is the subject of today's discussion. It's 85,000, 86,000. people - women, but also men - who have reached retirement age have taken up the challenge of raising a large number of children, at least four children, have resigned from or reduced their employment activities and have therefore failed to earn a pension of at least the lowest pension. We can say that we are talking about people who have contributed significantly to the increase in the number of this generation, which today finances pension benefits, and this is also part of a certain contribution to the pension system. This contribution is not covered by contributions paid during the working life, because, as I explained to the State, in the old pension scheme applicable until the end of 1999, periods of parental leave or childcare under another legal formula were not regarded as periods of contribution. Today's pension scheme based on the defined contribution principle resolves these problems differently. It solves these problems in such a way that periods of child care and cessation or suspension during this period of professional activity, periods during which an active person has so far taken care of the child, raises the child, are premium periods, are periods for which contributions to pension insurance are financed by the state budget. In the case of persons who have born and raised or raised, like certain categories of eligible persons, four children in extreme cases may be up to 16 years of age during which the state budget assumes the burden of financing pension benefits. You talk about sharing, you talk about differentiation, you talk about discrimination. I ask whether the situation in which persons born after 1948 who are covered by the new pension scheme have periods of child care taken into account in the basis of the dimension of the benefit and for which, it can be said, these periods are honoured by the State in the form of financing contributions to pension and pension insurance from the state budget, compared to the situation in which those of the generation of 70-year-olds and older people today - because we are talking about those covered by the current old pension system, the defined benefit system - are treated differently... These periods were simply not considered insurance periods as component periods. In this, I see injustice and unequal treatment of the different categories of insured persons awarded using the characteristics of the date of birth. This solution is unfair, such unequal treatment should be removed, eliminated. There has been a thread on the possibility for parents to benefit from the benefit provided for in this law. I tried to draw attention, first, to the fact that the law makes it quite possible for fathers who raise children to receive benefits to a large extent, because this possibility gives a quite clear indication that the child's mother will stop taking care of the child. In such situations, the father may apply to the President of the Social Security Office or the President of the Agricultural Insurance Fund and also apply for parental supplementary benefits. The state raises, you also raised the question of discretion earlier. During the discussion at the committee meeting, I pointed out that this discretion could be understood differently. The feature of this law is that the conditions actually obliging the President of the Social Insurance Institution or the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund to issue the decision to grant the benefit are as clearly defined as possible. Yes, it will be a benefit to which the right will depend on the decision to grant the benefit. This constitutional element of the law, the constitutional element, will be the decision to grant the benefit, but as we look closer at the proposed provisions of the law, we will note that this decision of the President of the Social Security Office or KRUS will be conditional on fulfilling, as I believe, quite precisely defined conditions, such as the achievement of age - it is about 60 years in the case of a woman or 65 years in the case of a man - or the fulfilment of the conditions relating to the lack of resources to maintain the income of that person who is applying for the benefit. So, frankly, I do not share these allegations of unequal treatment or too far-reaching discretion in granting these benefits, and I also tried to draw attention to it during the committee meeting. Maybe it's worth saying a few more words about EWK's pensions, because this thread was also in the discussion. First, I paid attention to system solutions, i.e. the financing of contributions from the State budget to persons who suspend or resign from their work and raise their children during that period. It can be said that this philosophy of supporting the child's upbringing also applies to the situation in which we are dealing with the upbringing of a disabled child. Firstly, we must bear in mind that the provisions determining the length of parental leave are specially treated by parents who have taken care of the disabled child, because in this case parental leave is or can be granted twice. At that time, the period of financing the pension and pension contributions of a parent who takes care of such a child twice automatically extends from those basically 3 years of parental leave, which any parent can actually benefit from up to 6 years of age. We must also bear in mind the second solution, which is part of the philosophy of the pension system, the insurance system, namely the financing of contributions to the pension and pension insurance of carers of disabled persons in a situation where they are resigning from their employment or work, do not take and take personal care of the disabled child. In such a case, there is no time limit for the financing of contributions to pension insurance. It can be said that the legislator ensures that the financing continues until the person concerned is given the possibility to collect a pension of at least the lowest amount of pension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u504	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Real Estate Management and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land (prints 3161 and 3167). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, two committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy took part in a draft law on the Senate draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land. Of course, this Senate resolution, this Senate project is very much related to the bill that was adopted last year, a very good law, which was simply very expected. Amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. These amendments were intended to respond to changes that are also expected. It simply meant that, in general, the increase in the State Treasury's land was not lower than in the case of local land. All this was very interesting and wisely carried out during the committee meeting during a large debate. Amendments were tabled. The two joint committees recommend adopting this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u506	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzonec will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Mr. Chosenman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of this law. Of course, as some new ideas appeared at the committee meeting yesterday during the discussion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice I am proposing an amendment to this draft law, which I am here to pass to the Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Oh, my God.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u508	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Coalition Club, I present an opinion on the draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of perpetual land to residential property rights. On July 20, last year, we passed a law on the conversion of perpetual use into property, and in December we already amended it, and now you have prepared another amendment. So the law on the conversion of perpetual use turned out to be another legal bubble. This was the case with the courts - seven amendments, with the National Property Resource, under which housing from the program was to be built + - also the amendments, from the IPN. It will soon also improve the so-called law. lex developer, because your mess left you the ability to block it. In fact, at every session of the Sejm, we have to amend the laws. In December, during the previous amendment of this law, I said that your amendments are underdeveloped, that they will require further changes. It hasn't even been two months, and you can already see the need for an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, a stable rule of law cannot function this way. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are debating a completely different draft amendment than the one we received yesterday from the Senate. These are two different projects. Project submitted by the Senate The amendment was completely unacceptable, because he was against the interests of local governments and aroused doubts as regards its constitutionality and compliance with the Municipal Government Act. Yesterday, during the work of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, amendments were made which fundamentally alter this draft law. I am pleased that, once again, the PiS government is right about the opposition and the local governments, because the amendments tabled contain provisions that will also make garages and parking spaces from perpetual use into property by law. We applied for this during the work on the law on converting perpetual use into property in July last year. Another solution introduced on the occasion of this amendment is to equalise the amount of the reduction available in the case of one-off payment of the conversion fee on the State Treasury land with the amount of the increase fixed by the municipal council concerned. The province is obliged to do so in the event that the council of the municipality adopts a resolution of a higher percentage than 60%. This is a fulfillment of the demands of Members of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition and local governments. As a result of this amendment, there will be no situation in which different rates of discounts will apply in one municipality, depending on who owned the plot: the local government or the State Treasury. There is, however, doubt. as regards compliance with the Constitution of the Act on the conversion of perpetual use into property and its compliance with the Local Government Act. The Legislative Office of the Sejm also did not express a clear position on this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present a position regarding the Senate draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of these land, prints no. 3161 and 3167. Since this draft law aims to protect citizens from uncontrolled and discretionary charges on the use of perpetual land by introducing maximum charges for perpetual use, of course different charges in different municipalities, Kukiz15, opposing such practices, will vote mostly in favour of the adoption of the amendment. At the same time, my previous speaker, Małgorzata Chmiel, should be right that the way in which this law is dealt with raises a number of doubts, but nevertheless these amendments which have been tabled, as well as the final form of this law, I hope, will contribute to solving the problems of permanent land use. Thank you. [[Thank you, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u512	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u513	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, as in previous cases: in July and December will vote in favour of the provisions and in favour of the Senate draft law contained in print no. 3161 and subsequent. Nevertheless, many questions and problems arise. I think that most of these emerging signals of certain dangers during the adoption and legislative work before July and December were identified, signalled. I think, Minister, that we will no longer hear, as we have heard lately, at committee meetings, that the Minister - the self-government minister will not take advantage of the moment that all the clubs voted in favour of these projects, and then he will not tell us: you did not comment because you voted in favour. There's a primary target. We all know what expectations are, we know what we're trying to do. And the fact that we are expressing our doubts in the course of the committee's work or during the debate does not indicate in the final whether or not it should be perceived in such a way that we have not spoken or signaled. The chairman of the committee was well aware that yesterday's work was swift, swift and understandable, that the amendments and suggestions were considered and, as a result, I am convinced - this version that will be adopted will be the optimal one, and hopefully it will last at least until the end of the term of office. I think we work well with the Minister. Well, just one moment. But let's assume that this is part of an exchange of thoughts and clarification or digging around, or showing your position in a discussion that sometimes happens. So, Mr. Marshal, in the finale, we will be in favour of accepting these records. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u514	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u515	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the perpetual use of land built for residential purposes into property rights of these land. High Izbo! This draft law is in principle not the same draft law as was brought before the proceedings of the High House. This project, which was created basically after the committee meeting, contains other provisions, but I would like to say that I welcome these provisions, I would say, even with satisfaction, because the project in today's state corresponds to the demands - not all but some of the demands - that we made during the process last year when the Sejm passed drafts of laws that are now being corrected by this project as well. I must say that both the issue of garage stations, which are included in this project, which we said were an essential element in the area of residence, as well as the issue of interest rates, the discounts that the previous project has dealt with in such a way that, in one village living next to each other, neighbours could pay various fees for converting the right of perpetual use into property rights, which, of course, is in the broad sense of this word unfair. So I think that this draft and these legislative proposals, which are included in the print, correspond to the needs communicated by the social side, but also during the legislative process, so they absolutely deserve to be supported. I think that if the government and the Minister carry out our proposals as is the case in this case, perhaps by the end of the term of office it will be quite well with these projects. So thank you, Minister, for taking the proposals into account, among others. Modern. Of course, in this situation, we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u516	Thank you very much. Four Members have joined the question. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Piotr Pyzik, first Member of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is saddening that the High House must adopt a special law which aims to save the inhabitants from the greed of the authorities in their own municipalities. Fortunately, this applies only to certain local government units, and most of them behaved decently. I hope that we will adopt the proposed amendment quickly and through the acclamation, and that all the proceedings that are already taking place before local colleges of appeal will become unnecessary. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u518	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the project involves changes which will prevent the practices of certain local authorities from taking actions which have resulted in an excessive burden on residents entitled to convert the right of perpetual use into property. This has often led to the need for those entitled to carry out significant conversion costs. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether the exact scale of this phenomenon has been known so far. How many local governments have decided to do this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u520	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a good thing that this proposal was improved during the work of the committee, because it was indeed worse than it came out of the committee. Therefore, the work of Members has not been in vain. This is another amendment. There's been a lot of talk here about the greed of local governments. This is mainly the case with the mother's law, which actually reduced the influence of local governments. It is also good that it was said that not all local governments actually used such a violent method of increasing by 500% or 1000% charges for perpetual use. However, what I have to ask is, will the law that was prepared to vote finish the issue of the conversion of perpetual use right into property right in the case of land under housing? Do you think that this is an exhausted subject and a closed case for the coming period? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u522	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u523	Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, I have a similar question. We are pleased that our demands have been taken into account. It's a pity you didn't do it in July when you passed that bill. Well, better late than never. On the other hand, I wanted to ask if the rest of the demands that we made in July, when the mother law was passed, would also be introduced in the form of an amendment. How many times are we going to update this bill? Just sit down with your lawyers and think carefully about how it should be, and once, and do it right, so people don't get in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u524	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr Artur Soboń, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's tell ourselves what this amendment changes. Firstly, it makes the increases which are higher, granted by local governments, which have full freedom in this regard - which we respect and entrust to local governments this responsibility - will always be increased, within this unit of local government, to this greater level and only in this situation. Secondly, these discounts will always be covered by garages and parking spaces on the State Treasury land, if they are transformed and local authorities will be able to do so on the local land. They already have it today, but there are local governments who interpret these laws against the people. We also change the rate of perpetual garage charges from 3% to 1%, i.e. the rate applicable to dwellings. Finally, we waive the proceedings for which the local authorities tried at the last moment to provide the residents with letters on increases, even in December, and there was a situation in which they were effectively delivered or delivered after the New Year, i.e. these increases did not enter into force. In short, there was an inequality between residents, who could be burdened in one property many times more in the case of one premises, e.g. residential than the second, in the same real estate. I don't want to prolong or point out these mistakes, the mistakes that have arisen in this area, or talk about how we worked, because it's easy to recreate. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, who is the author of this amendment, or actually who made the High House have to save the people of one big city, which is the capital of Poland, from the action which I believe has been initiated by the presidential candidate or the previous president of the city. Warsaw, which he bravely continued until the end of last year, already a new president of the city, namely Mr Rafał Trzaskowski. He is the one who owes us that today we need to examine these rules for the protection of the inhabitants. I can only say this: really judging local governments by the evaluation of the Warsaw authorities is unfair to local government and I can agree with the opposition on this. This pathology, which took place in Warsaw, is incomparable to any other pathology in any other place in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u526	Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u527	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm very brief, Marshal. First of all, this law contains solutions concerning the rights of users of the State Treasury in no way related to local government. It is the Minister who needs to know, because the Minister answers. What you just said about Warsaw's local government is simply completely detached from the merit of this law. Second thing. The issue of rates for garage spaces is also a novel - absolutely without any competence of the local government. So, Minister, really, why all these political tours without any valid justification? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: And like 15 times...]] But I, in the spirit of such an agreement, Minister, thank you once again for the fact that the Minister stood up in the truth, sprinkled his head with ashes and these demands, our opposition demands, he took into account, he aligned the rights of perpetual users, because that is what we should do in this House. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I just encourage you to take our proposals into account more often. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u528	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science (prints Nos 3169 and 3189). I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u529	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft parliamentary amendment to the Law on Higher Education and Science, print No 3169. At today's meeting, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth carried out its first reading and discussed the draft amendment to the Law on Higher Education and Science, print No 3189. The Commission has given a positive opinion on the draft law and asks the High Sejm to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u530	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u531	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science. The proposed amendment is practical in nature and is due to the need to clarify the rules which identify the person who, if the President's mandate expires for various reasons, will carry out his duties. The submission is general and applies to all universities. The aim of the project is to strengthen the statutory autonomy of the university by enabling it to determine on its own who, in the event of special circumstances, will perform the duties of the rector. The existing record indicates such a person, i.e. The oldest member of the university senate, however, does not give it the power to decide to perform its duties. The authors of the project propose that the powers in this area should be transferred to the level of the main document governing the structure of the university, which is the statute. The introduction of the record will facilitate the functioning of universities in situations that are de facto precedents. The person indicated in the Statute will ensure continuity and implementation of the university's policy. At the same time, the provision maintains the principle that, in the absence of statutory regulations, the duties of the rector shall be taken over by the oldest member of the Senate with at least a doctorate. The amended provision will also apply accordingly in the event of the expiry of the President's mandate as well as the suspension of the President's duties in relation to the allegations made to him. In the area of the impact of the draft law, it has a positive socio-economic impact and does not entail additional financial costs for the state budget and the budgets of local government units. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice appreciates this proposal and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u532	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Wojciech Zięniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u533	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition to review the bill on amending the Law on Higher Education and Science. According to the project in the Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science, the Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science. U. poz. 1668 is amended as follows: 24 point 8 is replaced by the wording which has been discussed here, and I think that we have no substantive objections in this respect. I have also been consulted by those who do this on a daily basis or who have been the rectors. E.g. Rector of the two term, the rector of Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań expressed such an opinion that it is a good proposal and in line with the expectations of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland. The content of the justification also reflects the nature of the change. The current director of Adam Mickiewicz University also stated that this might be the case, because until now, in the event of the end of the university's term of office, the oldest prorector was led by the university, but the new law was the subject of the prorectors, they do not have to come from the elections. It is good that the duties of the Rector will be exercised by a member of the Senate who is elected. And that's where we agree. At the meeting of the committee, however, the Rule raised doubts. 2 the proposed amendment in which applicants propose the entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of publication. A representative of the Legislative Office of the Sejm has reported doubts that such laws enter into force 14 days after the announcement and that there are accidents of faster entry into force, but this procedated change is not valid for the benefit of the State to speed up and announce the next day. After all, this law was adopted in July 2018 and there was enough time to analyse this proposal and introduce it That's before. What's the difference between 1 day and 14 days? The rapporteur did not fully explain... [[I explained it, I explained it. But the legislator agreed with me. He said yes.]] But not by saying... The legislator emphasized that... As this raises doubts, on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I propose an amendment to bring the law back into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u534	Thank you very much, sir. Please, I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u535	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to Print Act No 3169. The proposed amendment is of a technical nature, although the argument and content of legislation contradicts the one constantly raised by the persons responsible for Law 2.0 on Higher Education to its alleged advantage that the law extends the autonomy of the university. It also demonstrates a lack of trust in the academic community, which seems to be unable to solve this problem alone. Academic environment with difficulty, but still can solve the mess introduced in science by Law 2.0... [[Mr...]] ...which shows areas that need to be repaired. They are certainly more important than the problem solved by this law, e.g. the creation of university councils, the recruitment of people without guarantees of their assessment, coming from the judicial community. Why doesn't the government by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice want to make concrete changes to the Higher Education Act, and doesn't want to fix it? You're talking about university autonomy, and you've centrally prepared a list of publications in which it's worth publishing. This list compares the publications of major publications with ridiculous, meaningless publications. In general, Law 2.0 is legal and will not change this fact, but it also proves that in trivial cases the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, preparing for 2 years the law, is unable to prepare anything big. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u536	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u537	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Of course, we could debate for a long time about Law 2.0 and its shortcomings, which we are increasingly discovering. On the other hand, the change itself, which is proposed in the draft law that we are discussing today, is typically of order and technical nature. It's a change that, you know, fills up a loophole, so it doesn't arouse any emotions. Probably should have vacathio legis 14 days instead of 1 day, because there's no reason for her to come in immediately. This does not change the fact that it is a change that is not controversial and supported by the Modern Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u538	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Wojciech Zietniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u539	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am simply asking the Minister because you expressed your support for this project at the committee meeting. And what is the attitude of the Ministry to this article. Two? Is it really such an urgent need that it must be the next day? Isn't this two weeks enough for every bill? Even the one from July was two weeks old. I don't know, maybe there's another unknown reason? I would ask you to answer the Minister's position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u540	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Müller. You're welcome. [[Please be brief.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u541	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Science and Higher Education agrees with this text of the bill. It seems that the period of vacathio legis here should not raise doubts. Let's take into account that we're currently investigating university statutes. Therefore, in order for regulations to be introduced in the statutes of universities to replace the rector in these situations, this must be expressis verbis included in them. At the moment there is a process of preparing these statutes, so even for this reason this statutory provision in the amended version should enter into force as soon as possible, precisely in order to provide for such regulations in the new statutes of universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u542	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the rapporteur of the committee, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u543	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have to say, I'm not hiding my surprise. Members of the Civic Platform attended a committee meeting. And, Mr President, I am surprised that you are making this amendment now. Of course you have the right to do that. I would call on you, however, not to put sand in the ground. And I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the legislator did not raise any doubts. I do not know if you were at this committee meeting, I did not see you, but I will remind you that the legislator did not raise any doubts, but merely a comment, and after my explanation of why we want such a provision of the article. 2 was maintained, i.e. so that the resolution could enter into force as soon as possible, the legislator said that at this moment He understands that, and that doesn't give him any doubt. Therefore, the use of such an argument is unlawful for me and allows me to take it as a desire to delay the procedure over this law. At least that's what it looks like to me. That is why I will ask you to withdraw this amendment. As regards the wording and wording of this article. 2, that's right, the question is important. There is a matter of urgency here. The record is valid for the benefit of the university, for example, so as not to delay the establishment of university statutes, which you heard just moments ago from the Deputy Minister of Science and Higher Education. The Member of the Platform asked whether the original version of the recording had been analysed. Yes, it has been very carefully studied, but you know perfectly well, also by looking through the prism of your parliamentary internship, that life writes different scenarios, while the law is from serving people, improving the quality of functioning of different spheres. In this case, it is the functioning of universities. The fact that we enter such a record is merely proof that we listen to the needs and respond dynamically to the scenarios that no legislator will ever be able to predict. Besides, he knows very well that we cannot, by creating a law, provide for a rigid framework, because it would not function properly at that time. Therefore, such an amendment of the law, which is extremely necessary, coming from the real needs of universities. Once again, I ask that the Civic Platform should not delay the activities of universities, work on the creation of statutes, and that you do not place such great importance on this record. He himself said that it should not be important for you as Members whether the law will enter into force the day after it was announced or 14 days or 1 day after it was adopted. Therefore, I ask you once again for the sake of Polish universities, to improve the functioning and ability to create good university law, so that you withdraw this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u544	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns an undisputed phenomenon: the statutory autonomy of the university, the guardian of which is the rector. The Act provides for a response in an emergency situation - the expiry of the mandate of the rector. An important provision of this law is that it is to be a stand-alone reaction. At the same time, the provision maintains the principle that, in the absence of statutory regulations, the duties of the rector shall be taken over by the oldest member of the Senate with at least a doctoral degree. The amended provision will also apply in the case of suspension of the rector in the performance of his duties in connection with the allegations made to him. Assuming the applicant's good intentions, assuming that this is not a preparation for action in the event of interference of the current authority in the autonomy of the university, we are able to support the novel. At the same time, I assure you that we will look closely at how the rules will work and, if necessary, ask for further amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u546	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear any objection, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996 (prints Nos 3164 and 3173). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee. I'm declaring a 1-minute recess. We are waiting for the rapporteur. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 51 hours 22 min 52]] I'm so sorry, ladies and gentlemen. Just a moment of patience. I hope we can finish this today, deal with it by the hour. 12 and we will vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. I would very much like to ask you to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u547	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment. It is already another such agreement that our country has spoken out in connection with the position of the European Commission, which is calling into question the agreements on the promotion and mutual protection of investments concluded between the Member States of the European Union as incompatible with European Union law. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 30 January 2019, unanimously adopted a report requesting the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law in the form of print No 3164 without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u548	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u549	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As my previous speaker said, the subject of our debate is the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996, OJ No. U. z 2000 poz. 1119. In fact, such agreements are challenged by the European Commission because most of these agreements, especially Polish agreements, have been concluded in a situation where Poland has not yet been a member of the European Union and the entry of these countries into the European Union has caused these agreements to be even detrimental to today's European legislation. These are so-called. intra-EU BIT agreements which are subject to termination. As my previous speaker said, this is another agreement that the Polish state is saying. The termination of the agreement in this particular case should not affect economic relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia. The agreement was concluded at a time when, as I said, neither the Republic of Poland nor the Republic of Slovenia were members of the European Union. Currently, in both countries, the level of legislation and access to the general judiciary provide foreign investors with a guarantee of protection of investment with the possibility of exercising their rights on a judicial basis. Here I would like to raise two points in terms of costs. Namely, the Polish state bears high costs of arbitration proceedings... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, but there's some interference here, someone's talking too loud. I'd like to ask for some peace of mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u550	I'm asking you to stop talking. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u551	Thank you, Marshal. The Republic of Poland shall bear the high costs of arbitration proceedings: advances for costs of proceedings, including the remuneration of arbitrators, expert opinions, organisation of hearings, translation, participation of witnesses and costs of representation. The termination of the contract may therefore potentially significantly reduce the financial burden on the State. One further effect of the termination of this agreement is to get rid of the specifics in a certain time period, let's say, of these contracts, namely the so-called ones. Sunset clause for the protection of investments over the following years after termination of the contract. In this case, we are talking about a 10-year period. In this situation, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, vote in favour of this solution. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u552	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u553	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland's presence in the European Community brings undeniable benefits for our economy. Polish companies on equal terms can compete on foreign markets with European entities - without customs, unnecessary administrative constraints, certainly law and court. In order to ensure that our economic operators' rights were investigated before accession to the European Union, Poland, like other European countries, concluded agreements called intra-EU BIT. These are bilateral agreements on mutual support and protection of investments concluded between countries. They provided inter alia. the possibility of relatively free trade and the possibility of resolving the arbitration of the disputed situations. The European Commission, calling on the Member States to terminate these agreements, aimed at eliminating duplication of law, regulating the same issues by various legal acts and, finally, harmonising solutions for the whole market of the European Union community. This made it necessary for Poland to reconvene with the governments of the countries of the parties to these agreements in order to obtain the best possible way to resolve this problem. It is a pity that, instead of the bill on termination of the agreement with Slovenia, we do not proceed to terminate it by agreement of the parties. I hope that the lack of reply from the Republic of Slovenia is not due to the bad will of the government in Ljubljana or to the negligence of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If it was indeed impossible to obtain an answer at the desired time, the agreement must be terminated at notice, using the end of the 10-year cycle, so as not to enter into the next cycle. Because it is a project that follows the indications of Community law, which provides protection for Polish companies in Slovenia and Slovenia in Poland, it is a form of a certain legal order, as the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, we will of course vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u554	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adam Sztrapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u555	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Applause!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u556	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list and one question... [[One more thing.]] Oh, excuse me, Mr... Good. [[No, no, we're moving on.]] The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute to ask a question. [[Excuse me, Marshal, but who am I asking?]] Well, you volunteered to ask a question at this point. [['Cause I wanted to go to the ministry...]] [[There's no one here.]] [[Voice from the room: Some minister from the PiS should be.]] [[It'll be for the record.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u557	Okay, here's my question. Here's the thing. [[Game in the O.R.]] Can I go now?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u558	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u559	Thank you very much. I mean such agreements that are concluded in the European Union between other countries. Is our country prepared to act in situations, say, unusual when it comes to sunset clauses? Thank you kindly. [[Voice from the Chamber: No government, sir?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u560	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u561	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know who to ask, 'cause unfortunately the government benches are empty.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u562	I understand that you will have written answers to these questions. [[They'll write. I mean, it's listed.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u563	Right. I will ask that the answer be in writing. I mean, we've been really working out every few months lately and trying to sign new contracts. I just wanted to ask you how many more of these agreements we need to resolve in order to meet all the requirements and so that we already have a regulated relationship with all the countries as regards the protection of common interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u564	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on subscription fees (print No 3123). I ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u565	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members of the applicants, I will provide a justification for the draft law amending the Act on subscription fees, print No 3123. The need for the proposed law is due to the lack of adequate, stable, predictable and long-term public funding of public media in Poland. In the long term, this shortage is made up of, among others. increasing over the years since 1993 the expansion of the circle of persons exempt from the obligation to pay subscription fees. The largest extension of these exemptions took place by virtue of the Act of 13 June 2008 amending the Act on subscription fees, which entered into force on 1 March 2010. In the course of the discussion on this law, it was pointed out that it was necessary to ensure adequate funding for the implementation of the public service broadcasting mission and, consequently, that the possible extension of the exemption from subscription fees should be accompanied by compensation for the loss of revenue resulting from such a procedure. Otherwise, the State's obligation to provide financial conditions for the performance of the public service broadcasting mission will not be fulfilled. These elements led the President of the Republic of Poland to refer the bill to the Constitutional Tribunal. In its judgment of 4 November 2009, the Court found that only part of the Act was incompatible with the Constitution, considering that the extension of the exemption from subscription fees in principle falls within the legislator's freedom to choose the form of public funding, the amount of such funding and its detailed rules. At the same time, the Constitutional Tribunal noted, and I quote: Freedom to choose the form of public financing for radiophony and television does not, at the same time, exempt the legislator from the obligation to lay down appropriate financing rules. Implementation of the public service mission by public media This is because it is not possible without the provision of adequate public funding. End of quote. Despite the fact that according to CUS 96.4% households have a television set, about half of Polish households have not registered a television or radio receiver, and among the registered ones the majority are exempt from the charge. According to the National Radio and Television Council at the end of 2017 among 6.7 million registered subscribers, households were released 3.6 million... [[We're shortening, we're shortening, we're shortening, ……]] ...of 13,6 million households in total in Poland. In other words, within 50% households that registered receivers, 53.7% benefits from exemptions, so in real terms the subscription fees are paid by around 13% society. As a result, the financing of public media in Poland has remained insufficient for years. Widening the circle of people exempt from subscription fees and facilitating the use by some of these people of dismissals has generally increased this scarcity and contributed to the systematic state of the accumulation of underfunding of Polish public radio and television. The proposed solution has already been applied once already under Article. 16a Law of 2 December 2016 on special arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 added by the Law of 9 November 2017 amending the Law on special arrangements established. This provision introduced a compensation of 980... [[We're done here.]] Excuse me? [[We're done, we're done.]] Are you finishing something? I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u566	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u567	...the Member is bothering me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u568	I'm asking you to calm down. [[I'm not interrupting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u569	... 980 million for lost in years... [[Let the PiS pay for...]] ... In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and is based on the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. This compensation was divided by the National Radio and Television Council between public broadcasters for the implementation of their mission in 2017 and, mostly, in 2018. The compensation came from the state budget and was transferred by the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection in 2017 to the separate account of the National Radio and Television Council for the collection of subscription proceeds. Subsequently, like the proceeds from subscription fees, the compensation in the relevant parts was transferred to the public broadcasters. The proposed law is intended to ensure compensation for loss resulting from the non-payment of subscription fees by persons legally exempt from that obligation in the years 2018 to 2019. The maximum amount of compensation that may be granted in this respect should be determined on the basis of the average annual number of exemptions from subscription fees in 2017 and the licence rate applicable in 2018 and 2019. This task imposes on the National Radio and Television Council, which is required to prepare a resolution in this regard. In view of the publicly available data, simulations of maximum compensation may already be carried out at this stage. These figures are as follows: the average annual amount of fees exempted from the fees on the basis of the 2017 National Council data is 3 553 244, the percentage of exempted subscribers exclusively for radio, the data of the National Council, the condition as at 31 December 2017, is 1,68, the licence fee RTV for 2019 is PLN 22,70, for radio - PLN 7. So the loss of revenue is PLN 956 653 344. The compensation should not exceed that amount. Therefore, the maximum compensation for public broadcasting units for the years 2018 to 2019 would be PLN 1 913 306 888. However, it is proposed that this compensation should amount to PLN 1260 million between 2018 and 2019. The compensation mechanism proposed in the draft law is based on the issue of securities. It is in fact similar to the mechanism used for compensation for the years 2010 and 2017. Both then and now, the National Radio and Television Council will have an impact on how funding will be divided between individual public radio and television units. On the basis of a resolution of the National Council setting out the amount of compensation and the distribution of treasury securities between the companies, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage shall request the Minister of Finance to transfer the Treasury securities of the nominal value indicated in that resolution of the National Council. The Minister of Finance shall issue treasury bonds on this basis and shall transmit them in accordance with the decision set out in the resolution of the national council designated to public radio and television units. Members of the applicant request the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u570	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u571	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on subscription fees, contained in print No 3123. To begin with, the bill presented should not surprise anyone or surprise anyone. This is in a sense a repetition of the principle of compensation of Polish Television, Polish Radio, already adopted more than a year ago and, which I particularly want to stress, 17 regional companies of public radio losses, which are incurred annually by exempting millions of our citizens from paying a radio and television subscription. More than 3.5 million subscribers are exempt from this public tribute, according to the calculations just presented by the Member, while nearly 14 million households should pay such a subscription. The exemptions have been introduced by law, so it is the legislator's duty to indicate another source of funding for the public service mission. This is what happens in every civilized country and this is what happens in Poland in many other areas of life. This has also been the case for radio and television for 1.5 years. This is the principle we adopted when we passed the previous Compensation Act. However, we now have one more reason to adopt a law that gives the national media the public funds they deserve. Last year, the High Sejm decided to adopt the bill expected by all political forces, a law amending the law on radio and television, defining and clarifying the so-called. a public media duty card. This law clarifies the concept of public service and the principle of ordering certain services and programmes by the State in the form of a duty card, namely the precise calculation of the species and content expected in the public media for the sake of the common good. And of these content and of this kind of procurement, public media are to be settled in accordance with the law. The Charter of Obligations adopted by the National Radio and Television Council defines in a 5-year perspective what will be produced and presented to audiences and listeners in terms of the implementation of emissions. This Act therefore establishes only part of the necessary financing rules, which will enable the Polish Television and Polish Radio to draw up a list of the costs of such planned programmes and programmes. As you know, the duty card is supposed to have a five-year perspective. This Act compensates for a 2-year loss in subscription receipts. If we want the duty card to be in line with the objectives set by the High Sejm in the Act adopted less than a year ago, then we are only past 2/5 ways in terms of this funding. The public mission covers a wide range of content, including expensive, non-advertising content. It is necessary to finance educational programmes, programmes for children, animated films, documentaries and historical series. It is necessary to finance programmes in the field of high culture, raising the level of knowledge and sensitivity in the field of music, theatre, literature, film, art, architecture. There is a need for expenditure on natural films, for great film productions about the history of Poland, for biographical films about outstanding figures of our art and national heroes. No less important is civic education raising awareness of the principles of state action, teaching active participation in public life, introducing a culture of discussion and argumentation. There are many demands about the need for legal and economic education of millions of compatriots. In advance of the votes of at least part of the opposition, I expect, from those attacking the Polish Television, which has become the proverbial boy to be beaten, I would like to mention a recent meeting of the Programme Council of Polish Television. This board includes experienced journalists, lawyers, but also politicians of almost all groups present in the Sejm. The subject of the meeting was the discussion on the presence of the subjects of the former Eastern Kresów of the Republic of Poland in the offer of Polish Television. And it turned out that everyone here speaks with one voice. The outside observer would not distinguish between who belongs to the Modern, who belongs to the Law and Justice, who belongs to the Civic Platform and who belongs to the Kukiz club15. It turns out that there are things and topics that you can talk about completely beyond divisions and in the sense of the common good. And on such topics, which bring all Poles together, the funds planned in this Act are to be allocated. If you can wish for something to end, it is that we should be able to convince Poles together and all political forces about the need to strengthen and rebuild public media, about the need for sustainable and safe, long-term funding. Because compensation is only partial and ad hoc, and the public media will have their cards for many years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u572	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sławomir Neumann, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u573	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This time, that the debate on the law giving public television over PLN 1 billion from the budget takes place at night, is perfectly selected, planned by you. Because it's at night that people with impure intentions come for money. [[Applause]] This is the looting bill, so the nighttime fits perfectly. This is a law on the looting of public money made to fund your party propaganda. What are you guys chasing? What made you want to make this bill so fast? Did Kurski spend all his money on New Year's Eve on TVP? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voice from the hall: He earned it.]] What are you missing? What does this empty government jury show? They put you up to take over PLN 1 billion from the budget and allocate it to your party television, none of the government is firming it. Everyone's gone. They're ashamed. Aren't you ashamed? This is your party tube. Everyone knows that, no one in Poland has any doubts about it today. TVP is a television in which the dull, pushy propaganda of the power party reigns, but it is also television, which is a factory of the opposition hat and all those who disagree with the power. TVP today is a true technological line of industrial spitting, humiliating, insulting opposition, judges, women defending their rights, and recently attacks on the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. It was public television that hunted Paul Adamowicz, and the materials describing him in the darkest colors last year appeared on public television more than 100 times. [[Unbelievable. A lie, a lie, a lie.]] [[Voice from the room: True.]] That is why I want to tell you, I want to tell Mr Kaczyński, Morawiecki or Kursk: you have no right to take any of the money from public money until you know and understand the definition of the word "decency." You have no right to take a penny. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] Today, the concept of decency is completely alien to you. Three years of slander, discredit, false accusations. The whole contempt industry created by Jack Kurski and his people on TVP doesn't deserve a single dollar of public money. In the last few days, we have heard a lot from the politicians of Law and Justice about the fight against hate speech, the fight against hate. We want to rebuild the community and security together, and we are talking about this need together. If you really want to do this, if these words are not empty, instead of passing this 1 billion PLN to this factory of hat, humiliation and slander, it will be more effective and cheaper to disable news or TVP Info. I guarantee that without spending money, the amount of hat, slander and hate speech will fall by a dozen percent. This is today the real role of public television, party tube propaganda of the power party. Another important thing is that people who are responsible for this financial and programmatic fall of television should be ashamed to leave. Jacek Kurski and the entire board should be dismissed after what happened in Gdansk, to what they really led, to what divisions they led in Poland. Until you understand the word "decency," you have no right, as I said, to ask for a dollar. And last but not least, it's important. Except for the policies of the opposition, except for the judges you hate so much, except the women you wanted to deprive... [[Definitely not retirement.]] ...in recent weeks there's been a Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. There was a great heyt in relation to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, which for 27 years collected over 1 billion PLN, which started to play and played with public television for years. Jacek Kurski had to come to block it. [[Applause]] Today, a real proof of the change of language, the removal of these bad emotions, those actions that divide Poles, a good example of such a cross-party behavior that would turn faith in the possibility of rebuilding the community, would be the transfer of this amount, i.e. over PLN 1 billion, to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, to the treatment of children rather than Kursk. [[Applause]] [[Public money for private foundations?]] Adding the zloty to the zloty, collected and from the budget. I'll tell you, it would be a real monument to a century of independence. This equipment, which heals people, would be a real monument, not benches, which cost you tens of thousands, which the government offers you, which Minister Błaszczak offers you. It would also be a monument, for you also very important, and such a commemoration of one of the volunteers of the orchestra Paweł Adamowicz, who with a can gathered for the orchestra every year and died on the stage of the orchestra. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That would be real behavior. You want to give 1260 million to the contempt industry, to propaganda, to the propaganda tube of the power party, which is public television today. We cannot support this bill. We're filing a motion to reject it at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u574	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u575	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party is in favour of transferring funds to public television, but provided it is public television, national television, which will serve the whole nation, not party television. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If someone is watching TV today, he knows that it is difficult to find a different policy there, it is difficult to find the thoughts that other political parties would like to present. As a representative of the Polish People's Party, I say directly: we cannot support this television in terms of these measures, because among others. This television also issued a judgment on the Polish People's Party. [[Applause]] Yeah, it was just said on TV. We were supposed to disappear from the political scene. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] Even the TV controlled by the PiS couldn't handle it. Right now, we're talking straight: you can't give money on TV like this. This money, if you have a surplus, can be used for, for example, mothers who raise the children mentioned today. Not all of them have been covered. Let's give them to their mothers, make more use of them, maybe more children. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many conditions regarding the operation of this television. It goes on, among other things. Mr. Jack Kurski. For 2 weeks, 15 thousand signed the application submitted by the Polish People's Party in the media. citizens. [[Voice from the room: 17,000.]] There's already 17,000, these signatures are coming in all the time. This is also an expression of the expectations of society. We need to change the management on TV. Maybe then the TV will change. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen. It's interesting that 13% society, households pay, so I've heard, it's probably true, a subscription to public television... [[For the radio, too.]] ...to the radio, to the public media. [[To regional radio stations.]] Also, they're more objective. The Polish People's Party applied for exemption from fees from the subscription 2 years ago. You supported this request, addressed it to the committee. Did you forget about that? I think you forgot because it's been on the committee for two years. So? You've been sending signals the whole time: we're gonna cancel our subscription. Why aren't you working on it? Only 13% of people pay. You were supported by 17%. We propose voluntary contributions in this project. If you have 17% support, because so many citizens voted for you, it will be more money for public television, and at the same time it will verify what support is. So we propose that we proceed as soon as possible to proceed with this project because people do not want to pay. Why should we force someone who doesn't want to watch public television and watch public television to pay for this TV? This is incomprehensible. It's incomprehensible. I think that would be clear, clear, clear. Whoever wants to pay, let them pay. If television acts objectively if it meets the expectations of society, the number of paying people will increase. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u576	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u577	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Like my colleague from the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats on behalf of the club Moderna, I ask for rejection at first reading of the draft law on amending the law on subscription fees. There are several reasons. The first one comes in a clear and logical way. It is enough to read the opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office's advisors who clearly state, unlike Members of the applicants, that this project is subject to European Union law and exhausts the signs of public aid, so this should have been agreed with the European Commission before the adoption of the Polish Parliament. As you know, it wasn't done. However, this is only the first formal reason, although, I would say, for some it would probably be sufficient. There are other reasons, however. The second reason is this: the amount is shockingly huge. 1260 million zlotys, ladies and gentlemen, would satisfy expectations, requests, more, begging the carers of the disabled, who protested and begged the PiS politicians for this amount each year to meet the needs of their disabled children at the time of their upbringing and when they lack them. [[Voice from the room: What have you done for eight years?]] Then President Duda, Prime Minister Morawiecki, had a mouth full of promises, but their pockets were laced. When Jacek Kurski came to ask for PLN 1260 million, the amount was found. But is it intentional, or does it make sense to spend so much money that would solve so many social problems, on the so-called. Public media, especially when dealing with questionable media quality? And I'm not talking about annual outdoor concerts here, because tastes aren't open to discussion. Some people like Latin, I'd say, handsome guys who sing from playback. Well, okay, that happens, that's fine. One can say: they have won elections, they can invite each other who they want, let them sing what they like, but unfortunately it is about the level of the publicist presented especially on Polish television. I mean, for example. Studio Poland, which unfortunately rises - and there is no doubt about it - a stink of resentment towards minorities, and last year also knocked out the cesspool of anti-Semitism. Finally, it is about the level, the quality of information, which is de facto not information, but is party propaganda. I just want to remind you of one day, January 13th, the day of death. Paul Adamowicz, when TVP news dedicated the program to hate speech. At that time, there was no memory of the treacherous murders, no memory of the words of blood on the hands spoken by the politicians of Law and Justice. Some small, perhaps not always fortunate bon mots spoken by opposition politicians were reminded. And I will tell you one thing because you like to call the Gospel and call the Gospel. Matthew... [[Holy.]] [[Voice from the hall: St. Matthew.]] First take the beam out of your eye before you pay attention to the splinter in your brother's eye. [[Look who's talking.]] How can you speak of the splinter in your brother's eye when you don't see the beam in your eye? Take it to heart. Take this to heart, since you are Christians. I'm gonna say one last thing. Three years ago, when Jacek Kurski was in office, he talked about two things. First of all, there will be no lawn mowing, which is, by continuing, I would say, in his poetics, there will be no mass extortion of journalists from public television. And what happened? There's been massive layoffs. Secondly, the BBC standards will prevail on Voronicza: reliability, quality, recognition of viewers. One thing I have no doubt about: from the building to which Jacek Kurski enters, reliability, quality, reliability, BBC standards come out. They come out with shame. And you should also be ashamed that someone like that is running public television, that someone like that, not mothers and families, parents of people with disabilities, is about to receive 1260 million this year. Therefore, once again, I would like to submit a written motion for rejection at first reading of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u578	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Circle of Members Now! There is no Member. Mr Richard Petru. There isn't either. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u579	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amount of PLN 1260 million is a shocking amount. Shocking not only in light of what we're fighting for: some pennies for mothers who raised four children. Here we give away with a light hand no one knows what such money is for. It's just unimaginable money for an ordinary Pole and it's money that you don't know what they're going to go for. The quality of this TV is terrible. We will not point to any political problems, to the orientation of this television to present specific political publications. This is important, but for us quality is more important from a programme point of view. There's nothing valuable on this TV. We can't afford to spend that kind of money on far-reaching freedom, property, lack of any vision or quality. Because what are we watching on TV? Some sitcoms, some kind of borrowed from the West-like series. It's a shame. Polish public television should be a model for other television stations, and it is not. Ladies and gentlemen, have you considered who the money will go to? For what? We don't even have information about the need to finance regional television stations. [[Applause]] They just barely make ends meet. Ladies and gentlemen, you were talking about something... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So far, it's been possible to... We could vote in favour of this bill with a clear conscience if we could see what has been done so far on the part of the headquarters and television. There's no such thing. Regional television gets scraps. Moreover, regional televisions are limited in their activities and have less and less antenna time. This antenna time is taken or created by the control panel. There's been a multiplication of regions. It's a shame. That's what it looks like. Where's the historical policy? There's just nothing like that on TV. One more thing to remember. There are people on TV. Let's ask what the conditions are. You know, TV stars make a lot of money because they have special contracts, but the rest of them, the ones who do the black work, they work the trash cans. Nothing's changed since the last crew. Nothing. It's just terrible. There's one more thing. You're using the compensation mechanism. I don't know, compensation for what you really do, because you can compensate for something that's actually lost, and there's no loss of revenue here. It's just the TV. it works badly from an economic point of view. This mechanism was created by your predecessors. You're willing to use it, and what's more, you're using it more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Good words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u580	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Majka, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u581	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In 1928, the Supreme Court of the United States said significant words: As far as freedom of expression is concerned, there is no more significant principle for people to be able to speak. Not those whose views we accept, but those whose views we hate. What happens after 30 years? That the Constitutional provisions, art. 54, guaranteeing freedom of expression, and Article. 10 Press laws are fiction. In my opinion, this is a scandal. People ask me a simple question: Why do I not have the opportunity to express my position, my view on public television? Therefore, I will remind you that there is a formula of General Czesław Kiszczak: We do not touch yours, you do not touch ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u582	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? Please add yourself to the list. I'm shutting her down. The first question is asked by Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u583	Dear Marshal! Two Kaczyński towers in Warsaw failed for 1300 million. There'll be 1,300 million for propaganda. There will be 1,300 million on hate television, which for 3 years has been squandering people, sorting them out, violating their privacy, introducing the language of hatred, calling the march of nationalists, racists, anti-Semitics marching patriots. Don't laugh, Mr Peterovich. We are also aware of what this money will go for. Radio Zet released a manual list of Kurski's president's awards a few months ago. Mr. Adamczyk... And in the end? Mr. Sitek. TVP Gdańsk - added Jacek Kurski. 10,000. Rewards. This is Mr. Sitek, who followed Paul Adamowicz, after his family, destroying this family, destroying this man, creating evil images and bad emotions. Today [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're willing to transfer 1,300 million to propaganda. This is your shame and society sees it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u584	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska. There isn't. Mr Cezary Tomczyk. There isn't. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[We're moving fast.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u585	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President Kurski! The kind of propaganda you do on TVPiS... Let me put it this way: Urban could learn from you. Urban? Goebbels. Goebbels could learn from you. What you are doing with Polish television, which should present all views, be for all Poles, and is dedicated only to your people, the people of PiS, the hateful, who are waiting only to pour out their bitterness and regret for what is happening... Ladies and gentlemen! As far as money is concerned, more than 1,200 thousand who are going to Kurski today, I would like to tell you that it is clearly all prepared for an election campaign for the Europarliament and for the Polish Parliament. This is another fight of law and justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u586	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u587	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will respond to the rapporteur in the following sentence: there is no place in a civilised country for the activities that TVP presents today. This is not the first time that we have to say decisively not for the next tranche of money pumped into TVP. President Kurski demands that all citizens submit to the continued functioning of public television in an unchanged form. Here are some facts that none of us should have doubts about. Since 2016, since the President of TV is Kurski, television has already received almost PLN 2.5 billion in various forms: funds from the sale of bonds, government subsidies, non-taxed credit and compensation for unpaid subscription in the last 7 years. What have we received in return, ladies and gentlemen? Extend aggression and hatred against those who oppose the current government and the PiS party, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the election campaign of Patrick Jaki, as well as the spill of speeches and the pouring of slop at Rafał Trzaskowski and the sleeper. Paul Adamowicz, the success campaigns of all ministers of the present and earlier government. Seriously, it's a shame, gentlemen of the National Radio and Television Council, national media council and Minister Gliński. You're responsible for this condition, and you're sleeping well tonight. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u588	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u589	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A week ago, I made an Internet probe involving 9914 people. That's at least five times the average poll. And I'll tell you, 98%. people were in favour of not giving a penny more to finance this television. Mr. and Mrs. PiS! You always refer to the sovereign that he wants it, and you do it all. I'll tell you what the sovereign writes about this probe: I don't pay taxes to go on something as disgusting as the hateful TVP program; I don't watch TVP for liquidation; I don't watch stupidity and deception; I absolutely disagree. There is one opinion on consolation: if further episodes are filmed, then the crowns of kings, I am in favour - says the Internet. Only this internet guy doesn't know that you spent 500 million zlotys on taxes to create this middle class show. Will you tell that to the sovereign? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Hardly average.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u590	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u591	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Applicants! Why are you dragging us here at midnight, since in December President Kurski said he'd get 1,200 million zlotys. He already knew that. I would like to ask: What is this fiction? [[Applause]] But I'll tell you who's gonna pay back that money. You know you want to give, and I'm gonna tell you who's gonna give, because according to the Sejm Analysis Bureau, it's public aid. And there's gonna be trouble. So you will hand over the Minister of Culture, Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, because he did not suspend the board, and he had the right to do so, which the board made of television cesspools. I'm sorry, but I think that's something to say. The moth can't, but the cesspool can. Mr Witold Kołodziejski, Councillor of the Mazowiecki Sejm for Law and Justice, who claims that he does not know [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's on TV because it doesn't monitor. Of course, Mr Czabański, who invented the Act on the National Media Council, will be taking the lead in this Council and he also does not know, and he says that he can't do anything. And Mr. Kurski's gonna be so busy, he's gonna give it back or not, he's gonna care. He's gonna pay off 'cause you guys are giving him money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u592	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u593	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time in the Polish Parliament, the Sejm is proceding a law which, as Members expect, will allow the transfer of PLN 1200 million to finance the lie. Public television led by the author of the words: the dark people will buy it has just become a propaganda factory, a factory of lies. We've come to this absurdity in which Internet users, reading these ridiculous beams that go online, wondering if it's a fag, or if it's true. Today you must ask the question: Who will bear moral responsibility for these lies, for the sting, for the sharing of Poles? Paradoxically, public television is subject to the Ministry of Culture, and the only culture that television is contributing to today is unfortunately a culture of lies. Stop hating. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u594	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u595	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This bill is information from the government for Poles: we are short of money for the propaganda tube, and next elections are coming. We remember those times when state television had two channels and provided us with three kinds of information: true - the time, the half-truth - weather forecast, which sometimes did not work out, and not true - all the others. TVP draws its full handfuls from TV's standards. Propaganda machine developed to the limits of absurdity. You show Poles how wonderful the government is, but Poles look in their wallets and see a completely different picture. Poles leave the house and see long queues to specialist doctors, rising food prices, rising bills and NBP officials earning 70,000. monthly. They also see two PiS towers on the street. Silver. Ladies and gentlemen! Set aside the millions for the Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not for your propaganda and your fight against honesty in public life. And when it comes to the 1260 million, let TV go to court to be paid for its propaganda services.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u596	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u597	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that with some hope I heard, after the change of government, when Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Gliński, speaking about the fact that public television cannot be propaganda or manipulative, said that public television would be just like this: it would not be propaganda, there would be no manipulation. And I wanted to ask Mr Glinski, who unfortunately does not exist, although we are talking about the aspect that is under his, I would say, supervision. Why didn't you make this TV different, Prime Minister? I have to say that today, talking about this billion, over a billion dollars for public television, is just indecent. It is obscene because when I listened to Mrs Bubble, who spoke of this mission, I opened my eyes with astonishment. The Member does not watch TV or, I don't know, didn't get any information, because even on the children's channel, Miss, there is propaganda at present. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So what I'm saying is, before we talk about a billion today, I want to call you to a real test of your intentions to eliminate hate speech. This real test of your intentions will be to change the language of public television and change your own television.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u598	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u599	If you pass, we'll talk. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u600	Mr President, I am very... I ask you to watch your time, sir. I let you finish, but half a minute is a bit much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki. You're welcome. There isn't. Please, Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u601	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have come to discuss a new document, a bill that is supposed to be credible and binding in law tribute to national media, but actually to party media. The government wants to convince Poles that over 1,200 million is small money. Isn't there more urgent needs? Why should Poles maintain government television? It is well known that they do not want to pay the subscription, so the government makes decisions and prepares a bill that will allow this money to be taken from Poles anyway. There's a free market. Since Polish Television is so great, let it raise money from advertising and then let President Kurski build his media. I do not agree that the Poles will pay for the industry's contempt. So I ask what is the substantive justification for providing such support to the public media. And one more thing: What did Poland Television do with the billion that it received last year? What has this money been earmarked for? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u602	Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u603	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Why does Jacek Kuski, the head of Polish Television, and also the leading bullterier of PiS, instead of losing his position with a bang, get enormous support from our money, from all taxpayers' money? Should we treat this more than PLN 1 billion for government media as a reward, a reward for the campaign of hatred against the opposition, which has been running public television for several years? After the great drama that took place in Gdansk, after the brutal murder of President Paweł Adamowicz, about whom TVP has broadcast many extremely aggressive programs over the last year, and who the President himself said is grilled alive by the PiS propaganda machine, do you really think that pumping taxpayers' money into government media is fair? Is that fair? What guarantee do we have that the main purpose for which these funds will be spent, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Aren't you just gonna support the PiS in the upcoming election campaign? The only law that public television deserves at this point really comes down to three words: close, plow and forget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u604	Thank you very much, Member. I just wanted to tell you that after this point is finished, we will still be considering the electoral code and only then will we vote. Please, Mr Tomasz Głogowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u605	Dear Marshal! High Seym! It is not by chance that at midnight we are investigating a law whose title should be: with the support of 1260 million government TV propaganda. I wanted to ask you if you could imagine something more absurd and wicked than supporting such a huge amount of institution, which has long ceased to have anything to do with the mission of public media, and is just a tool of propaganda, and it is very primitive, one directed - which even the Members of the PiS sometimes admit in moments of honesty - only to a moderately cunning audience. Do you think this amount will change anything? After all, in order to run such a large institution, you have to have a little more competence than putting on rude propaganda. You have to be able to run a company, you have to have an idea to attract advertisers to it. After all, the disastrous situation of Polish Television will not improve after this act. This will be wasted money spent on another disgraceful Pole's stunt on themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u606	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u607	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Constitution, public media should guarantee freedom of expression and pluralism of social media. Unfortunately, since their takeover by PiS, including TV by Jack Kurski, it is the propaganda industry and lies controlled from the street. Nowogrodzka. It was Jack Kurski's television that slandered President Paweł Adamowicz. In a disgusting way in the so-called. The raccoon suggested that the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help was a way of raising money by a Jewish group of influences. Today, Members of the PiS want to transfer over PLN 1 billion of lies and propaganda to this machine. We're not authorized to do that. Stop saying hate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u608	Thank you very much. Ms Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u609	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! $1,200 million is a huge amount of money. This is the money that was drawn to the state budget from Poles' pockets. Don't you guys have a better goal than $1,200 million on TV? I understand your point of view, because this TV is supposed to lie, cheat, and present what you're doing, only in a good light. Therefore, television workers themselves say: Who works there? Those who are piss followers or who cares. Who's watching the news? Only those who are ardent supporters. Why is there little influence? That's why. Marni journalists and a few viewers. After all, how can you spend money on plastic theaters or on New Year's concerts from playback? You can, because you're gonna put our money in them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] again in the pocket of the money for television that lies and manipulates.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u610	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u611	This is a disgrace to you and a disgrace to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u612	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u613	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The TV of Kurski's propaganda, still on the downside, is to receive from you taxpayers - from you, taxpayers - to resuscitate another financial drip. This time it's 1260 million. And these aren't the first millions from you, dear taxpayers. In 2016, TV received 300 million and its year ended with a loss of 180 million. In 2017 - 800 million loans, and then again 980 million for public media, most of which received public television. All this money, your money, dear taxpayers, is for the contempt industry, for the propaganda tube of the PiS, for the hat factory, and for the hate speech, and finally for the lies. All this money, your money, dear taxpayers, is for resuscitation - it's due to large wages, generous prizes, ever weaker ratings, the escape of advertisers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with fumes of propaganda and embarrassing quality. Kurski has to go. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Tomorrow.]] It's the best.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u614	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u615	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Do not regret the PiS 1260 million on hate sowing, propaganda, exposing people to people and lies on the PiS TV, but you regret the money to help the victims after the storm 2017. Do you know that the European Union has allocated EUR 12 million to the victims and the PiS government has not yet transferred this money to the victims? I said, where did the money go? Time is running out, because within 18 months of the allocation, they have to be spent. I ask: Will Pomerania lose the resources needed to rebuild the damage by neglecting the government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u616	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u617	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This whole political fight is really interesting from the point of view, one can say, cultural - it shows, let's say, the entire arsenal of resources that you use to fight each other. The problem, however, is that this money is being wasted. I have a specific question for the applicants. The point is to tell them how much money they make... how much it costs to run the TV board, what's the pay of the TVP president. Finally, I heard about the fact that on the show of "Mother of Kings..."
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u618	There's no...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u619	...I think that's his name...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u620	She's not the mother of kings. The crown of kings.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u621	...or the Crown of Polish Kings...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u622	Other movies.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u623	It's a small show, it's obvious I just didn't remember. But 500 million PLN was spent on the crown of Polish kings. I think I saw the episode once, and I'm gonna say, "Are you guys gonna buy better outfits for this show?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u624	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u625	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a pull out of the pocket of the Polish taxpayer 1260 million PLN for propaganda, for television, which, I don't know why, you call public when it is party, PiS-owska, regime television. What right do you have to give that kind of money at all? The only program, which is relatively objective on public television, is the weather forecast, because even in sports news we learn that the success of Polish athletes is due to Law and Justice and Jarosław Kaczyński. The insolence is also that the president of TV is Jacek Kurski. He should come back and play under the Copernicus monument still as a street musician, because that's all he's good for. He doesn't have the right to continue being president of public television. It was already said today: Jacek Kurski must go. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u626	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. I wanted to ask you in the O.R. for peace and quiet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u627	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that the public television mission has already turned into the worst form of heyte, which is a powerful example of the show in the program of the 20th Animation of Barbara Piela, in which through the use of plastic puppets it presents Mr Owsiak in a negative light, suggesting that he is embezzling the money of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. Questions arise: Isn't it high time for a general change in the media? Do the head of the Television Information Agency, Mr Jarosław Olechowski and the president of TVP Jacek Kurski still have a moral right to direct public media? Due to the mediocreness of Polish Television, I ask: When will the subscription be abolished? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u628	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u629	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Marshal! The unprecedented situation took place in December Ub. Rzeszów Radio President filed a report to the prosecutor's office on his radio journalist, reprimanded him with a reprimand, removed him from conducting publicist and information programmes live. You're gonna ask, "For what? For issuing two previously recorded opinions about President Duda, positive and negative during the live broadcast. Luckily, the D.A.'s office canceled this investigation. It's a curiosity situation bearing the marks of censorship. This should outrage us all. I ask: What is freedom of speech? Where does the limitation begin? I ask: What does public media say? I said, where's the mission? I ask: Where is freedom of speech? I ask: Do we want to spend on it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] $1,260 million? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u630	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u631	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just wondering, are you guys watching the profile of President Kurski on Twitter? Of course, I know that there are more interesting objects to observe. [[Sure.]] I'm not watching either, just so we're clear. On the other hand, if we go in there, we'll see how often Mr. Jacek Kurski boasts about the record ratings of his TVP shows. And here something doesn't bother me, because, if there's such a huge audience, such good TV, then advertising should also have so much influence to keep the TV going. That's how commercial stations work, and somehow they live out of it. And here we see that it is not. And, ladies and gentlemen, public television has a mission, but this mission is not to fool Poles, it is to educate and show what politics really looks like, not just on the one hand. So we should get back to this mission. The huge money that you want to spend - if we still spend it on regional television, it's half poor, but how it's going to go to Mr. Jack Kurski, I'm unfortunately not predicting a good future for this TV. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u632	Thank you very much. Please, Elizabeth Stępień, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u633	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The mission of public television is, and above all should be, to strengthen the feeling that the homeland is not an interest, that the homeland is an obligation. It cannot be used to spread the truth in a subjective manner or, all the more so, propaganda. Public television has lost the confidence of consumers who do not pay their subscription but, above all, advertisers who also believe that they can be used better in a slightly different way. And don't reach for money from the cultural area either, because that's not the direction. And the question is, is this the purpose you want to use these funds for infidelity? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u634	Thank you very much. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u635	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! PiS is lying day and night, in parliament and government television, which is just a propaganda pre-election tube, post-election tube, from Monday... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It's a rig!]] ...to Sunday, January to December. Please don't disturb me. PLN 1260 million. You lie day and night, you lie to teachers, farmers, mothers of disabled children, everyone. You're lying that there's no money to raise wages, to raise benefits. There's no money for anything, but for Kurski, for TV, for your self-promotion money is. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly. For Rydzyk.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u636	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u637	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have some questions about the Polish Television Centre in Krakow. Please tell us how much of this money will go to journalists, operators, employees and whether it will finally be employment contracts, because, as you know, there is a problem in regional centres with these contracts. Most young journalists work in trash cans. [[Applause]] So the question is how much money is going to go into these contracts. Will the programme "Youth vs. Cracow" produced by television and taken off the antenna return to the air? Why was it taken off? Will he return to the air of the Television Theatre, which was so popular and so well implemented in Krakow? [[The voice from the room: There it is.]] In Cracow. Will there be a sports editorial on Kraków TV, which used to be a very good editorial office, which served and ski jumps, and matches of the Kraków Vistula, Cracovia Kraków and smaller clubs? Tell me if there'll be money for it. I also ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u638	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u639	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Will this huge money be spent on public media? or to the party media whose management has to follow the instructions of the party hacks on what they're supposed to show, what they're supposed to record. What's going on with so much money? Or for management? 'Cause all the employees, journalists, technicians, drivers are probably gonna get scraped off your table. You have to think about them, too. On regional television we can record, show what is actually happening in the region, but not for 33 seconds or a minute. There's a lot going on in every region, there's people out there, they're losing their time, they're putting their money in. This must be shown - social activity in every region. And I ask, are these objective media? 'Cause for now, we see it as a party. And one more thing: Will this money go back to party conventions that cost a lot of money, and it's shown for hours? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Conventions of the Citizen's Movement of Kukiz.15 is shown for 7 seconds. That's the objective media. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u640	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Mr Jacek the World, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u641	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unlike most of the previous speakers, I will not escalate emotions, and unlike most of the previous speakers, I sometimes watch public television. And on Monday, I watched the TV Theatre. He is, he exists. There was a very interesting performance called "The Bible. " It's a wedding. But as a live one, it wasn't a pro-government show. But the interesting thing is that in this show on this television stage two outstanding actors met: Mr.Daniel Olbrychski, who as a live person is also not a supporter of the current power and who probably did not suffer from lack of presence in the media, public as well, and Mrs. Halina Łabonarska, an excellent actress who for years was a persona non grata, was cut out of public television under the rule. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The predecessors. It's a miracle. This miracle is only possible on public television, only thanks to the subscription and thanks to this... [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: Time is up.]] ...that this institution has extra money. Would such a miracle be possible without a subscription? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u642	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Minister Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u643	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Public media is 18 radio stations and one public television. Public television has regional branches everywhere. Public television is the closest to any citizen. And it is public because it pursues public goals and is financed by public money. The same task is also carried out by public radios and they are... [[Voice from the room: Participative.]] ...they will carry on, and they will achieve these goals very well. Public television, because all the time you were referring mainly to this television, has 10 thematic channels - 10 channels. We have TVP Culture, TVP History, TVP Series, TVP Entertainment, TVP ABC. Someone here mentioned that this is propaganda television, and I would like to point out that TVP ABC is at the moment the fastest ever gaining more audience with the station in general in the media. This is very interesting, because there is finally a program aimed at children who... [[Voice from the hall: I wonder who's watching.]] You have to ask the citizens who is watching - there was a question from the hall. Ladies and gentlemen! 1260 million PLN is the money for public television to make up for all the delays in previous years so that it can perform technological ubgrade, so that the radios can perform such ubgrade, because they are in a sorry state. In such a deplorable state they were left behind after your eight years of government and this condition needs to be improved. [[But what are you saying?]] You can't let the CEOs of the companies get scared of getting their equipment out... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 3 years, 3 years you rule.]] ...in the course of the broadcast. And it's important to remember that public radios play a very important role during war states, emergency states, and they're those... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...the institutions that have... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the hall: When will the martial law be?]] ...just keep an eye on our defenses. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 3 years, 3 years.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only 13% of people pay their subscription and 97% people, citizens in Poland according to the CSO have a TV or radio, but we would all like to have high-quality television. Therefore, in order to have high-quality television, we cannot neglect it financially. Ladies and gentlemen! Why are there so few people paying? That's because you've been calling for years to break the law and not pay your subscription. And let me remind you that... [[Then why aren't people watching?]] ...there are 60 different freedoms and rights in the Constitution, and there are only five responsibilities. One of these responsibilities is to pay public danins. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 3 years.]] And you've been calling on people for years to break the constitution. You know the constitution so well, so often you invoke it, and you don't know it's a duty, and you call for no payment. [[You've got most of it in the Seym, do something about it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There have been a lot of statements and very few questions. Most of the questions are addressed to the television board, not to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 3 years. Three years to encourage people to watch.]] ...and to the government, because according to the Radio and Television Act, it's the sender who shapes the program himself and doesn't influence the government. As for the Commercial Companies Code... [[Sure.]] ...he's the one who only gives us the right to exercise the rights of shares, which is property operations, so for that reason I won't... There were no questions about this issue. As far as the remuneration of the directors of the board was concerned, because there was such a question, they have the lowest remuneration permitted by the law and lower than is apparent from the law they will not have. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: You can see by quality.]] And when it comes to... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Where is Kurski? Why are the undersecretaries sending? No respect for the citizens.]] During the questions, a series of kings appeared. I would like to point out that this is a series that makes very good money, has very high ratings and at the same time is sold to many countries around the world. Recently, it was sold to Japan, previously sold to Georgia, as well as other countries. [[Applause]] [[Where else?]] It is very popular and very welcome to be seen by people. And I really don't like the fact that you share the Polish people because you don't like something. You don't like the show, you say that those who watch it are worse or those who watch New Year's Eve on public television are some worse - 7 million Poles. We can't entertain these people because you... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Where is Kurski?]] ...doesn't like it? There's something on public television for each of you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Public television is pluralistic and provides everyone with what they want. [[Applause]] We have a high culture, we have TV Culture, historical politics is on TVP History, there are TV theatres that have been through so much... [[No, you don't.]] ...years neglected and finally under these governments they appear regularly. These are new, high-quality theatres, as Mr World mentioned. [[Applause]] [[Is he telling jokes at this time of night?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I just wanted to point out that you're talking about hate, and I'm talking about hate... [[Propaganda of success.]] ...I can feel it from this room, [[Applause]] Because so many sad and untruthful words, so many lies that went into the TV account at this point, it's just an industry of contempt, in which you are very good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 3 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u644	The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, print No 3174. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. [[Flowers, flowers.]] In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the draft law amending the electoral code law (prints 3163 and 3174). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u645	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to submit a report to the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law on electoral law, on the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, print No 3163. The Sejm shall meet at its 77th meeting on 30 January 2019 in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he sent the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for consideration, a draft law on electoral law. At the committee meeting, 20 amendments were tabled, which were accepted. Two have not received a positive opinion from the committee. One minority request has been submitted. The Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u646	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u647	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the law and justice club, I present my position on the draft law amending the electoral code law, print no. 3163. The bill contains amendments to the Act, which the Sejm passed on 11 January 2018, which concern inter alia. adapting a number of regulations to all types of choices. Citizens will be able to make applications for the personal compositions of the regional committees, not as they have been so far, that only electoral committees could do so. It is also important to deprive the passive electoral right of persons convicted of crimes prosecuted by public prosecutions or criminal and treasure crimes, of any penalty, as well as the setting up of regional electoral committees in various formations, depending on the size of the voting circuit, of allowing a European Union citizen who is not a Polish citizen to vote in elections to the European Parliament on the basis of a certificate of the right to vote at the place of residence on the day of the election, of course issued by the consul who drew up the electoral census. It should be noted that the project does not entail additional financial costs for the budgets of local government units, on the contrary, a revision of the rules on the setting up of two regional committees only in the elections to local government units carried out in connection with the end of the term of office of the Councils will contribute to saving in the budget of the State the costs allocated to the holding of elections. There is also no doubt that its introduction will have a positive social impact, e.g. to increase the availability of certain activities or functions. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the parliamentary bill amending the Code of Elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u648	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u649	Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I apply for the third reading of the draft law amending the electoral code law, print 3163, as soon as the second reading is completed, without referring to the committee any amendments and requests made to this draft law and after the service of their Members. [[Applause]] [[Why? Perhaps you could explain why.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Reasons? None.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u650	Thank you. Please, Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u651	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition I strongly object to this instrumental treatment of the electoral code by the parliamentary majority of the PiS. After all, it is a legal act which determines the democratic character of the state. Free, democratic and fair elections are the foundation of democracy. In the meantime, the way you proceed, the way you make changes to the code you present, is unacceptable in a civilized world. I'll remind you what happened last year. You've prepared a curiosity draft of changes to the electoral code. This project will go into history, a disgusting story, but it will also go into history as a Guinness record, because I will remind you that you have prepared 260 self-corrections for the 18th article law. From this came such a pate that you had to amend this law in the middle of the year, and yet the autumn municipal elections were unprepared, there were difficulties with the appointment of electoral officials, with the appointment of a committee, and the counting of votes often lasted a few days. And when it seemed that you would learn from these actions and from these failures, it turned out that none of this worked out, because you prepared another curiosity project of changes, which you decided to process practically a few hours in Parliament: three readings, a vote and knee-puffing. Besides, this project was written on my knee, as you can see, and I'll try to prove it in a minute. Firstly, it is a non-constitutional project, because the next elections, the forthcoming elections to the Europarlament, have remained not for months but days. The six-month period of legislative silence prior to the next election has not been preserved. Secondly, it is a project prepared and treated sloppyly. Example one: the first change that defines whether or not two electoral committees are removed. These changes are written several dozen times in the text of the electoral code, while the project provides for a change in only one place. To my question, what about the other changes, I heard the answer that it would improve in the Senate. Thirdly, you are showing disrespect for the votes and amendments of the opposition. Only one amendment was tabled by the opposition at the meeting of the Special Committee. One, very important, technical amendment and, of course, it was rejected by you. Fourthly, this project finally has impure intentions, because changes in committees etc. they're just a cover to find or prepare their own tools to silence and eliminate independent self-governments, wojettes, mayors and presidents. Ladies and gentlemen! Following the adoption of this law, the mayor or the president, if he is punished with a fine or commits a crime which the court finds guilty but does not impose a penalty, will be deprived of his office during his term of office. This not only concerns the loss of passive electoral rights in subsequent elections, but also the intention is that and the goal is to eliminate unruly self-government during the term of office. Ladies and gentlemen! This is unacceptable, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition also applies at second reading to reject this project in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u652	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u653	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I want to present my position on the draft electoral code law and sadly I have to say that the Polish political order is eternal. We had a debate that took place exactly a year ago, over the local electoral law, where we talked about makeshifters. We all knew that in 2019 we had double elections: to Europarliament and to the national parliament. Already then I called on us not to do anything for five to twelve. In the Polish Parliament work for five twelfths has been a tradition for 30 years. For exactly 30 years in the electoral code, every ruling party has been mixing, breaking the law and writing this bill under itself. He does so in a boundless and consistent manner. Ladies and gentlemen, is there any good in this? Today we are talking about technical changes, because the PKW really points to things that need to be straightened out and which it has already pointed out. There is no doubt here, but on the other hand, these constitutional issues are bowing down, the issue of the six-month period and many other doubts. There is a dilemma as to whether this bill violates the constitution. Theoretically, we're talking about technical changes. This does not change either the electoral system or the threshold system, it does not change things that may have a real impact on the electoral situation, but it is another, unfortunately bad, practice that shows that we do not know, we have no idea that in some way we do not want to sort out the electoral system in Poland. From the beginning, Kukiz15 repeated: let's make the system simple, clear, legible. We are talking about this system of one-mandate electoral districts so that they are simple, clear rules. Today we have this situation that we have another electoral system in the local elections, in the elections to the national parliament, in the Euro elections and in the presidential elections. We are a country of electoral mess, and this bill is only a confirmation of that. Ladies and gentlemen, will this make things better today? No. Again, we're making another makeover. We're only doing this to make sure there's an election. They're gonna happen. We've got it right in front of us. I'm just saying one more time. Will the sense of political class itself be better after these votes? I don't know. I know one thing. We have no other choice today. I'm sure the technical changes must be made, but the quality changes are definitely not following. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u654	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u655	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this is the fourth approach of the ruling party to the electoral code and it is difficult not to be convinced that, as before, the spirit of little Kazia is constantly accompanied by applicants and the ideas behind these changes. This is what the chairman of the State Election Commission spoke about when he assessed the size of the changes that the applicants had proposed in previous submissions. This project in its first part is really about the allegations that both the State Election Commission and the opposition reported during the work on the amendment of the electoral code. I think that the applicants must sprinkle their heads with ashes, because it happened, not knowing why, after one election tour - I mean local elections - back to one regional electoral commission in the elections to the Sejm, the Senate, the European Parliament and in the presidential elections. I would like to remind you that the additional creation of a regional commission contributed to raising electoral costs by more than 70 million PLN. It is worth noting the fact that my previous speakers also argued that, according to the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is important to keep the so-called. legislative silence, in other words, significant changes in electoral law should not be made within a period of at least 6 months prior to the date of the election. Unfortunately, it was not kept here either. As far as the second part of these changes is concerned, the conditions arising from the possibility of running for mayor, mayor, president are to be changed. This amendment is intended to deprive the passive electoral right of conviction for intentional offences prosecuted by public prosecution. In order to be more precise, I'm going to say that when a person is sentenced to a fine, he simply will not be able to run. So here's the situation: this great criminal who has to pay a fine, let's say 500 zlotys, loses the possibility of verification in elections and giving himself public judgment. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a very important question here from a constitutional point of view. What about limiting passive electoral rights? What about the functioning in this law so-called. Double standards? Is it not sometimes contrary to the provisions of the Constitution on equal access to public service? In view of my reservations about the submitted report, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will vote against this proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u656	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u657	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit my position to the draft law amending the electoral code law. The proposed law is undoubtedly part of the category of system laws, and therefore particular care should be taken in relation to such laws concerning the procedure for their adoption. In this case, however, we are once again dealing with a law which is not subject to any public consultation, which is, moreover, pushed by the High House on a super-express date. In fact, one day you want to make a lot of changes to this law. This clearly indicates that at this rate we will surely return to the electoral code very quickly, because this bill will be another legal bubble. This is indicated by the work itself on this law and issues related to some of the good rules which correct the manifest errors made in the previous year, i.e. issues relating to two committees. But here, too, the applicants did not avoid mistakes because they only changed one rule when it is necessary to amend dozens of provisions in the electoral code law. All this indicates that we are dealing with legislative sloppyness, which will result in the need for a quick revision of this. Another aspect concerns the constitutionality of the law. Firstly, in the settled case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal, there is a dominant view that changes in the electoral code, major changes, cannot be made within 6 months before the date of the announcement of the elections. This makes the entire bill unconstitutional, because a number of regulations are essential provisions that affect the amendment of the electoral code. The second aspect of non-constitutionality is the issue of introducing requirements, different requirements, in terms of defining passive electoral rights vis-à-vis voivodships, mayors and city presidents, and different requirements vis-à-vis Members, Senators and President of the Republic. These different requirements indicate that there is a breach of the principle of equal access to public service. This is not only about the fact that people who will be sentenced to imprisonment for an intentional crime prosecuted by public prosecution will not be able to run for office, but this provision will also apply to the mayors, mayors, city presidents who will commit this kind of offence during their term of office. If these persons commit such an offence, a procedure will be initiated to remove them from office. However, we do not have this type of procedure in the case of Members and Senators. Let us take ourselves seriously and treat all those who perform public functions equally, not selectively. For these reasons, due to obvious constitutional defects, although the law contains several provisions that actually simplify electoral law and return to the already proven mechanisms, the Polish Club The modern proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u658	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u659	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, as you ladies and gentlemen started to tamper with the electoral code, I said, I discussed this topic in various debates, e.g. on the radio that there was no consultation that everything you were doing at the electoral code was to eliminate citizens' committees and associations running in the local elections. That's what happened, you planned it, for example. representatives of PO and PiS entered the city council in Koszalin, and completely fallen citizens' committees and associations I mentioned. My question: Do you think - it is worth reminding you of this - the introduction of one-mandate electoral districts, so that voters can dismiss Members who have failed to keep their promises and at the same time select the best people tested in actions that will not fail them? That would be a true democracy. The idea is to bring the state back to its citizens and remove the party clans from power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u660	Thank you very much. Would Mr Costowniak like to take the floor? No. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. The discussion also made a request to join the third reading without referring this draft law back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a four-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 min 39 to hour 0 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. We would like to refer to item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on Parliamentary draft laws on: - amendment of the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, - amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, - amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3171-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u661	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed five amendments tabled during the second reading of Parliament's drafts of prints 3158, 3159, 3160 and 3171. Amendment 2 was accepted in the vote. Amendments 1, 3, 4 and 5 were rejected. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend the adoption of Amendment 2 and the adoption of the entire draft Print Act 3171, together with the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u662	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that this is about the adoption of the draft law on printing 3171. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee has tabled in its additional report. In the first amendment to Article. 10 Laws on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions of the applicant propose a different wording of paragraph. 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 382 Members voted. For-- 144, against-- 235, three stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 66 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the applicants propose that before paragraph 1. 1 plus a new paragraph. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. The vote was 392, 2 against, 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 66 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, applicants propose a different wording of paragraph 1. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 41, against - 361, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question will be asked by Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u663	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is really a clou of the NBP scandal. The platform proposes that the statements of property made in the National Bank of Poland should also cover the year 2018. As we all remember, this whole thing really came from one simple thing: the stubbornness of President Glapiński, who did not want to reveal the income of one person, i.e. Director of the Department of Communications of the National Bank of Poland. Only for this reason did three draft laws appear. Only to find out about the amount of one salary, as it turns out now, will we have a dispute with the European Central Bank in a moment. [[Right.]] Therefore, we propose to introduce this transitional provision to have 100% I'm sure. If he does not pass, I will address the question to the rapporteur, President Kaczyński, who, after all, President Glapiński is a longtime friend: Will Poland know the salary of Director Martyna Wojciechowska for 2018? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u664	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 154, against - 248, with a hold of 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 3 draft law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 156, against - 247, with a hold of 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. There are questions before the vote on the project as a whole. Mr Marta Golbik, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u665	Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform will support this bill because Poles have the right to know how much the assistants of the President of Glapiński earn. [[Oh...]] Poles have the right to know if the director of the image department, who created a powerful image crisis and who cannot cope with this image, earns 65 thousand. PLN per month. [[That's not the biggest problem right now.]] You take on a dispute with the European Central Bank and take responsibility for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u666	Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u667	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether you know that because of two ladies we are introducing a law, as if it could not be done normally, we are introducing deregulation, we are introducing completely unnecessary regulations. Because of two people, the Sejm sits for two days. Is that normal? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Is the Sejm going against the European Central Bank because of two people? Is it worth questioning basic principles because of two people? Such principles are competence, remuneration. In this bill there is no word about competence, there is no word about connecting one to another. There is no mention of the fact that we would like the central bank to be a Polish central bank. Is it worth going to a collision because of this? I'm saying it again. We're really overregulating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At today's committee meeting it was clearly stated: this project is illegal, we will correct it in the Senate. This is sick. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u668	Thank you, sir. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u669	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If you stop causing fires, you won't have to put them out. This law would not have really been necessary if the President of the National Bank of Poland had not acted as an oligarch if he had pursued an understandable HR-Paid policy and employed people whose competences would not have raised the slightest doubts, and also for decent, non-bullying remuneration to the public. Unfortunately, the last few weeks have shown that it is completely different. It is even more or equally controversial that you asked the European Central Bank for an opinion on this law because it raised doubts. on the compatibility of the reconciliation of the NBP's independence. Today, because it is negative, you are not ready to include it in the established law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why we're a club. We're not voting for a law that has a negative... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u670	Thank you very much, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 3171, along with the amendment adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 352, against - 18, 41 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3150-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u671	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Home Affairs and Administration met today after the Parliament's debate. Three amendments were tabled during the debate. The Commission recommends rejecting Amendment 1 and Amendment 2, adopting Amendment 3 and voting in full. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u672	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's print number 3150. We are voting first on the recommended amendments tabled by the committee. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Council of Ministers. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 31a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 181, against - 228, with 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 31a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 180, against - 227, stopped 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 4 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 248, against - 161, with 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, along with the one amendment adopted, is printing 3150, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 245, against - 158, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Council of Ministers and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft Parental Provision Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3172-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u673	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs to the Government's draft law on supplementary family delivery from prints 3157, 3172 and 3172-A. 10 amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission has a negative opinion on all amendments. And please give a positive opinion on the entire bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u674	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's print number 3172. We will vote on the amendments first. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a-1c. Amendments 1, 2, 6 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1, 2, 4, 6, and 7, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 178, against - 230, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. This proposal brings together the 5th minority proposal. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Kochan, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. [[Magdalena.]] Magdalena Kochan. Sorry, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u675	High Izbo! The minority proposal focuses on this one statement: parents who raised at least four children, in this case a mother or father, while working, deserve the same recognition as a parent who resigned. The first one we pay is the lowest pension, and the other one we say: thank you, thank you. We believe that 30% is due to a parent who raised at least four children and earned his retirement. You've got 86%. People, 86,000. You left without that benefit of 700. Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u676	Thank you. Mr Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u677	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This minority proposal restores some basic justice in the treatment of families, mothers and fathers who raised four children and more. Unfortunately, the bill divides them into worse and better ones, those who will have the right to benefit because they have not taken up employment, and those who have worked, raised their children - four and more - and have no right. Hence my question, Minister: Is that fair? Shouldn't we also honor the purpose of the bill, the parents, the mothers, the fathers who raised their children, combining this upbringing with their work? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u678	Thank you, Member. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the minority proposals 1 and 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 182, against - 226, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the second minority proposal to Article. The applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph 3. 1. This proposal brings together the 4th minority request. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 3 and 5. The question is asked by Wojciech Król, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u679	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We should all be ashamed that in the 21st century in the Polish Parliament we must claim equality between men and women, the non-discrimination of the father's role and the failure of women only to raise children. [[Applause]] We live in times where a man also has the right, the will, and sometimes the obligation to give up his career to raise children. Such a decision should be made by parents, not by the government. A man will not bear a child for a woman... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Sexism.]] ...but a woman has the right and must be able to return to work, and a father has the same rights as he has obligations to raise children. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as a father with an 8-month internship, I ask you to support this minority proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u680	That wasn't a question, so we're voting. [[So what?]] [[The questions will be in the paper tomorrow at hours. 6.]] [[Voice from the room: Family on your own.]] Who among you is in favour of the proposals 2 and 4 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. 412 Members voted. For - 182, against - 229, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the third amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph 3. 1. Amendment 5 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Joanna Augustynowska, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u681	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is another legal bubble, which in addition not only discriminates against fathers, but is also incompatible with European Union law and the Constitution. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I understand that the right side of the plenary room does not care what is written in the Constitution, but there in the article. 32 is very clearly written about the fact that parents have equal rights and equal obligations. You mustn't discriminate by introducing laws and privileges... That's first of all. Secondly, I wonder what the inventors were thinking, or actually the Prime Minister meant, because in the explanatory memorandum on the front page he writes... [[It's written.]] ...that, in the light of the Union provisions of the Regulation, it should be annexed to the Annex. As this is a special benefit, European Union legislation should be taken into account. On the other hand, four pages further - note - in the opinion of the designer the subject matter of the proposed law is not covered by the scope of the regulation... Decide: European Union law is in force or is it not in force? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u682	Thank you. Mr Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u683	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment talks about equality between women and men raising their children, about the fact that both the father and the mother have the right to decide whether they want to stay at home. From this speaker we always insist that we treat men and women equally, and now I insist that we treat fathers and mothers the same way, so that they also have the right to stay at home... [[But they do.]] [[Voices from the hall: They do.]] ...and raise these children. And this amendment gives them this full guarantee. This is an amendment that has emerged from the social side of the Institute of Civil Affairs, which has long been dealing with the issue of honoring the work that is being carried out at home. Therefore, please listen to the social side, as you say, and support this amendment. This is also a matter of certain social roles and how we see the family model. Is it a model of a family where the mother has to stay home and the father works, or is it a model of a family where both parents share their responsibilities and work? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u684	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3 and 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 180, against - 231, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third minority proposal to Article. The applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph 3. 3. The question is asked by Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u685	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You want to give this benefit only 86 thousand. Women who are 60 years old and have four children, but you're really just talking about it because in the article. 3 (1) (a) 3 you write that you will give them, but only if a woman does not have the income providing the necessary means of subsistence, so this is not a compulsory, compulsory, only optional benefit, because if she has any means to ensure her maintenance, then that benefit will no longer be given, so this amendment is really a test to check whether at least 10% Women who have had four children and are 60 years old will be given this benefit or not. We say, "I'm checking." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u686	Please. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the third minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working.]] Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 179, against - 228, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th amendment to the article. 15 applicants propose to add point 4. Amendment 10 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 8 and 10, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 182, against - 229, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 6 17 Family Benefits Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 184, against - 226, with a hold of 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Member Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u687	High Izbo! We've been investigating this bill in extraordinary mode. No meaningful amendment has been adopted to correct this unfair against 700,000. women - mainly women - project. No meaningful amendment was adopted to correct it when it comes to the unconstitutionality and discrimination of men introduced in this law. We tried to fix it, it didn't work. The worst part of all of this is that it's 86 grand. Women who think this project will solve their problem are also not sure, because these are not compulsory benefits. The Minister explained to us that they are discretionary, just as special pensions and pensions granted by the presidents of the Social Security Office and the KRUS are discretionary. Why are you making such an illusion? Why do you give people hope you don't want to fulfill? How can you be such a buffoon? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Release From the Seym? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u688	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour... [[Voice from the room: Minister!]] [[Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it's too late.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Voting.]] [[Voice from the room: But the vote.]] Minister for Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska. There you go. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it anyway?]] [[Voice from the hall: This is a vote.]] [[Those skyscrapers belonged.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u689	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're talking about discrimination against fathers. [[Voice from the hall: And the mothers.]] And I insist, and this project calls for justice for mothers who raised many children. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But this is not a fair project.]] Today maybe they are 70 years old and according to a system that was in force earlier, sometimes they do not have the right to the lowest benefit. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We've prepared a unique regulation that compensates for these women... [[Voice from the hall: And fathers.]] ...who raised five, six, sometimes ten children, are 60 years old, and often 70 years old, or more, and have to benefit from social services. [[Voice from the room: What about working?]] An honorary solution appreciating parenthood, so I don't think you're gonna shake your hand when you press the button, because it's really good regulation, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] which gives women the right to a supplementary parental benefit. You haven't done this before, so back up what we've prepared. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u690	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3172, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 259, against - 20, holding 134. I state that the Sejm has passed a bill on parental supplementary witnessing. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into property rights of these land. The additional report shall be in print No 3167-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u691	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two joint committees: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy have examined the print project 3167-A. One very good amendment has been tabled. The joint high committees propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u692	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's print number 3167. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted. We will vote on the amendment first. In this only amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2. The committees are bringing, reminding you, her reception. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For -404, against -2, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u693	Ladies and gentlemen! To this great bill that you've told us about, what you're proposing to us is an amendment. The bill was passed in July, then the amendment in December, now we have another amendment. I ask whether these wonderful amendments will be discussed again at the next meeting. Can you stop sending us bubbles and think hard once and come up with a bill? However, we are pleased that you have taken into account our proposals, our opposition and our local governments, you have consumed them, and after the amendments you have written down such comments... [[We're having a dialogue.]] ...which offer the possibility of transforming the use of perpetual land under garages, as well as equalizing the fees for perpetual use, conversion on the land of the State Treasury and the municipality depending on the resolution that the municipality will adopt. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what we're happy about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u694	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3167, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For -411, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on the amendment of the Real Estate Management Act and the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of the land. We would like to return to the discussion of item 17 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3164. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full this draft law in print no. 3164, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. In - 410, no one was against, two stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Ljubljana on 28 June 1996. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science. The amendment tabled at second reading was withdrawn. We therefore proceed to the third reading. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3189, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 408, against - 1, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science. [[But I have a question.]] [[Voice from the room: This is the wrong point.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to sign up.]] We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on subscription fees. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u695	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS state always repeats as a mantra that they do the will of the sovereign. Everything you do, you do as the sovereign wants. So I made an Internet probe. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[We heard that.]] It was attended by 9914 people. 98% of them were in favour of not giving or... [[We heard that an hour ago.]] ...extra gold for your needs, for your public television. I'm going to read to you what they have to say about this: 'Course I'm not paying taxes to go on something as disgusting as this hate TVP program, 'TVP', 'cause I don't see stupidity and deception, 'cause I don't agree. [[The truth hurts.]] I already know that 1300 million is nothing for you, but the question is whether you are listening to the sovereign, to the sovereign's voice or to show him the middle finger, as Mr Pyzik has shown. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Listen to the Sovereign's voice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u696	Thank you, sir. I inform you that the Sovereign represents the entire Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's so revealing.]] We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 3123, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 190, against - 222, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law amending the electoral code law. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act 3174. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law, which I will put to the vote first. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who of you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law contained in print 3174, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The vote was 166, against 226, with 21. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the sole request of a minority to Article. 432 Act The electoral code of the applicant proposes in § 2 give a new wording to the third sentence. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For -91, against - 293, the 27. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u697	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that this whole draft amendment to the electoral code has been prepared only so that the services and the prosecution have tools to tame or harass independent, insubordinate self-government? Because I want to warn my friends, comrades, ladies and gentlemen, mayors and presidents: the hunt will begin in a moment, because today the majority of the PiS Parliament is preparing its tools to start this hunt. [[Applause]] [[It's a hate speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u698	We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3174, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 230, against - 160, holding 22. The Sejm passed a bill amending the electoral code law. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 30 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Mr Kilian made a statement in writing. Member Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Are you Mr Mosiński? Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u699	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an hour. 1.30 a.m., last day of January 2019 Why am I bringing this up? Well, I want my memory back to what happened 30 years ago in January 1989, namely the death of two priests who died at the hands of unknown perpetrators. I'm talking about the Fr. Stefan Sunday and Fr. Stanisław Suchowolc. I want to summon their memory. Well, Fr. Stefan Sunday was the parish priest of St. Charles Boromeus in Warsaw's Powązki. He's a solid priest. During the occupation - chaplain of the Łódź National Army district. After the end of World War II he became a member of the Association of Freedom and Independence. On his initiative in the 1980s in the church of St. St. Charles Boromeus created a sanctuary for the dead and murdered in the East. Fr. Stefan Niedzielak was also co-founder of the Katyn Family. He supported the independence opposition. Security has repeatedly tried to deprive him of his life, harassed him and persecuted him. He didn't bow, and yet, at night, from January 21nd to 22nd, unknown perpetrators murdered. They haven't been detected to this day. Fr. Stanisław Suchowolec - a friend of the Blessed One. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, the steadfast priest. Murdered at the age of 31 on the night of 29 to 30 January 1989. A friend of Fr. George. It was after the death of this priest in Suchowola that he preached his martyrdom and organized a symbolic grave. Moved to parish pw. The Immaculate Heart of Mary in Bialystok, Dojlidy, continued its activities. He's been assassinated many times. He died, as I said, on the night of 29 to 30 January 1989. On 27 January this year, I had the privilege of attending the celebrations commemorating Fr. Stanisław Suchowolc. I am delighted that, most likely, at the next meeting of the Sejm, the High House will adopt an appropriate resolution commemorating these two great priests of the patriots. They left this world and left behind a lasting trace of great patriotism, priesthood, such sincere, devoted neighbor and Lord God. It is worth mentioning in times of total attack on the Catholic Church at present. May they remain in our memory forever. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-30-sejm-77-1.u700	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow. I'm sorry, until today, until now. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 30]]
