ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the Sejm. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Please take your seats. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Marcin Duszek, Daniel Milewski and Paweł Rychlik. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Marcin Duszek. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Daniel Milewski. I ask the appointed Members to take their seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen! I will now invite our longtime colleague, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, who wanted to address a few words to all of us. Member, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Forgive me if there are emotions, but this is how your sixth term ends and 22 years of work in this House. I would like to thank you, Mrs Marshal and the Sejm Bureau, for having given me the opportunity today, 11 September 2019, at the 86th session of the Sejm of the 8th term of office, to thank you for these 22 years of office as Member of the Sejm, especially since this speech will be the last speech I will give as Member of the Sejm from this stand. I would like to thank my colleagues, Members and Members, the heads of my club, the heads of my Civic Platform Party, the Union of Freedom, the Democratic Union and I am very grateful to remember those who are no longer among us in this Chamber. I would like to express my special thanks to Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, because she was my help and support in 1997 and so far. Iwonka, thank you very much. [[Applause]] I would like to thank the Members of the various groups with whom I had the opportunity to sit in this plenary room and during the work of the Parliament committees for the past years. I would like to mention all the presidents of the Republic of Poland who, in the course of my mandate, had the honour and the honour to take up and perform this office: Mr Aleksandr Kwasniewski, Sr. President Lech Kaczyński, Bronisław Komorowski, as you can imagine, my favorite president, and current President Andrzej Duda. I would like to thank all the prime ministers who were in charge of their governments and the ministers and officials working with them. I would also like to thank all the staff of the Sejm Chancellery for their daily presence, for their professional help, for their substantial support for us, for all the Members of all the groups. When you see the materials prepared for the committee meeting, you will receive the requested expertise when accompanied by a sense of security during a national trip or a foreign delegation, when the scenario of the meeting was prepared without errors and the amendments tabled have been properly edited, that is to say that every office of this firm and its officials carry out their duties in accordance with the highest standards, with dedication, commitment and diligence. Also the employees of the Sejm Chancellery, who are not mentioned on a daily basis, whose presence is usually not noticed at all, and who have been working with us and for us for many years - because someone brings documents, separates letters, delivers them to our coffers, someone takes care of the cleanliness of the offices of the law firm and the plenary room, someone brings us to the station or airport and drives us out of them, settles our delegations, parliamentary offices, publishes books and sejm publications. And this person, often standing in the shadows, would also like to be noticed and appreciated, and I would like to do it now: notice, appreciate and thank. Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Marshal's Guard and the State Security Officers for their service. But I wouldn't be here or any of us if it wasn't for our constituents. That's why I'd like to thank you very much from this place. for their election so far, for the fact that for the last 22 years I have been a trustworthy Member of the Sejm, i.e. one for whom it was worth voting. [[Applause]] I also thank you for the fact that, despite the years that have passed, I have remained for you, my constituents, our doctor and our Member, who could be trusted with their concerns and problems. And I want to say something to you, to my constituents. When I came home after another difficult and tense session of the Sejm, I sometimes wondered whether this work here still made sense. But when I met with you, the people of my constituency, and I heard your words of support, I always knew that work, renunciation, mileage, hours of meetings and conversations - it all made sense, it really did. Thank you for that. On this occasion, I would also like to apologize to all those who, during the fulfilment of my mandate to the Sejm, I may have offended by too clear judgment, by words spoken during a seymous, radio or television debate, in an interview or in a conversation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Member of the Commission and Member of the Commission. The election campaign for the Sejm and the Senate is underway. For the past few decades, I have been an active participant, and now I will be her attentive observer. At this time, I would like to appeal for one thing, something that is particularly important to me personally: let us respect the constitution, because it is a guarantee of our rights and freedoms. [[Your marshal, but this is an abuse.]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 30 of the Constitution states: "The natural and inalienable dignity of man is a source of freedom and human rights and citizens'. [[You abused our trust. I'm so sorry.]] I'm almost done. It is inviolable and its respect and protection is the responsibility of the public authorities. Now, Marshal, I'm done. No matter what stamp we wear in the flap... [[You're wearing a scam stamp.]] ...let us bear this in mind, especially during the ongoing election campaign, that behind this particular sign and symbol there is always a man - a man with his inalienable and inviolable dignity, with conscience, sensitivity, life, wealth, family and privacy. [[You tricked us.]] Even the temptation of power or the prospect of winning elections cannot be an excuse to deprive a man of that dignity. Convince your constituents, show them your programs, talk to them about Poland, its place in Europe and the world, but talk about arguments. Don't ever bring this against another man. Sleep. Fr. Jan Kaczkowski once said: "Catholic can't be anti-Semitic, anti-gay, anti-Kim, because being 'antiquet' means we despise another man, and we can't do that. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen and honourable Members, One of the stages of my life and political activity is ending. In conclusion, I would like to recall the words of St. Paul's letter to Timothy: In good competitions I took part in the run. It has been a great honor for me to be in this House for six terms of office. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u3	Thank you, Member. I consider the minutes of the 85th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebrara, in print No 3808. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with The Commission of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties during the period December 2007 to November 2015 submitted a report, print No 3805. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the settlement of disputes concerning double taxation and the conclusion of previous price agreements, in print No 3788. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The group of Members submitted a draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 3813. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the act on the informationization of the activities of entities carrying out public tasks, the Law on civil status records, the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, the Law on telecommunications, the Law on rules governing public collections and certain other laws, - to amend the Industrial Property Law. The projects are in prints No 3789 and No 3664 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, - to amend the Pharmaceutical Law Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in no 3785 and 3786 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Education Law Act, - amending the Environmental Law and the Trade Inspection Act, - amending the Law on the acquisition of a professional title in the fields applicable to health care, - amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units, - ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018, - ratification of Convention 188 on Labour in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva of 14 June 2007, - about amending the Penal Code Act. The reports shall include, as appropriate, prints 3776, 3784, 3787, 3782, 3773, 3780 and 3801. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and certain other laws, - on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints Nos 3806 and 3802 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in the case of printing No 3806 and Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in the case of printing No 3802. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted a report on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up in Rome on 13 June 1976, in print No 3814. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the reports of the investigating committees on the Amber Gold Group, as well as fraud on goods and services and excise duties. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in a joint discussion on the reports on Public Procurement Law. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's reports on draft anniversary resolutions, as well as draft legislation on ratification of documents. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the activities of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in the area of family and senior policies, in particular in the area of demography and poverty reduction, which was proposed by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Formal conclusion. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Please, sir. [[I bet it's a break.]] One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I move for a recess and a convocation by you of the Marshal of the Senior Convention. [[Bravo!]] The question is, what's wrong with you two trying to stop this Sejm meeting and finish it after the election? [[Applause]] Is it just a prosaic reason that Mateusz Morawiecki and his family would not have to disclose their assets according to the law that we are proceeding at the moment, because it would turn out that he is a great beneficiary, a golden child of the Third Polish Republic, and not - as you are trying to convince your constituents - someone who wants to settle this III Polish Republic? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Or is it that you are so afraid of the outcome of the election that you are preparing other emergency solutions that you will want to accept? Are you so afraid of this verdict on October 13th that you will change the budget, perhaps repealing all your promises that are unfulfilled? Mrs. Marshal! With this in mind, I ask you to convene the Senior Convention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and change that decision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u5	Thank you, sir. We will vote on the formal proposal. The formal proposal is made correctly and we will therefore vote on it. Are you prepared to vote? [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] You're welcome. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of declaring a break, please raise your hand and press the button? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Isn't it working? [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] Who's against it? [[It's not working.]] Who's holding back? [[Sorry, it's not working.]] Is it working or not working? [[It's not working.]] Ladies and gentlemen, is it working? It works, doesn't it? Good. Isn't it working? Who doesn't it work with? [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] Okay, ladies and gentlemen, we'll wait for everyone to work. [[Voice from the room: Andzel's not working.]] Since the problem is raised by various Members from different clubs, I do not think it works. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, we'll wait. [[Let's take a break, Marshal.]] No, we are voting on a request for a recess, so we will see in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to draw up a card in the course of the vote, and that is precisely the problem, because the Member has forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, we can cancel and repeat this and vote again. [[Voice from the room: No.]] No? [[Voice from the room: Why don't we count the votes?]] Okay, well, in that case, you're welcome to announce the results. We're adjourned. 284 Members voted. For-- 114, against-- 170, no one's holding back. The motion was rejected. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In that case, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Michael Szczerba. Or with the same formal application? [[Voice from the room: With the same.]] There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, there it is. There you go. Or is it the same proposal, sir? [[Different.]] Different.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We had an unprecedented situation yesterday. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: What happened?]] There was a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Let me remind you, Marshal, that a month ago you appealed from this place: let's argue right, let's not use invectives, let's not insult people. High Izbo! Yesterday, the Ombudsman was prevented from answering Members' questions. [[This is not a formal conclusion, Marshal.]] She has preceded this situation by a tyrade of hatred, sniffing and insulting the constitutional body, which is the ombudsman... [[Voice from the hall: Who is the marshal here?]] ...in the performance of Ms Krystyna Pavłowicz's PiS envoy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u7	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u8	This situation shouldn't have happened... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, your marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u9	I'm sorry, sir, I'm sorry, but this was supposed to be a formal proposal. [[Yes.]] You're talking about the committee. We are at a session of the Sejm, so please follow the rules of procedure - it is a formal proposal for a meeting of the Sejm, not a committee. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir, you're talking about the committee. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Don't we have a report on the Ombudsman's activities?]] [[It's okay.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: After all, we have a report on the Ombudsman's activities in order.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] [[Voice from the room: Not over.]] [[Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u10	Marshal, I understand that functions need to be studied. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There was a proposal to use your knowledge, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Insolent.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My speech concerns the item on the agenda of the Ombudsman's information... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...about its activities and the state of compliance with freedom, human rights and the citizen. Your marshal sent this information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present the position of the committee. Yesterday, the President of the Commission prevented the Ombudsman from responding and thus prevented him from providing this information. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u11	Mr President, I am so sorry, but you have really been through a lot of time. I counted that time when I interrupted you. Thank you very much. [[But let's get him to reschedule.]] No, thank you very much, please step out of the podium. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Therefore, I will not put him to the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Now it's gonna be a punch line.]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir, you've crossed... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: It took a punch line before he offended everyone.]] [[Your marshal, it wasn't meant to be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u12	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 10, - Health-- hour. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 14, - Extraordinary for the examination of draft electoral law laws - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 16, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth together with the European Union's Committee on Affairs - at 3 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - Economics and Development together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 20, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - Health-- hour. 17. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 12.45, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting - hour 16, Parliamentary Panel on Africa kindly invites you to the ceremonial opening of the exhibition "Poland - homeland of tolerance" at hours. 12.45 in the lobby of the main building on the ground floor by the locker room. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u13	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family (Print No 3771). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Tomasz Robaczyński to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u14	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. First of all, this project envisages unfreezing the basis for calculating the social benefit fund in the current year. The Law of 9 November 2018 on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2019 establishes the basis for the calculation of social funds from 2013. The current draft foresees that these bases will be from 1 August 2019. These solutions will concern pensioners, former professional soldiers and police officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Carb Services, Prison Service and members of their families. In this case, the draft law proposes that the allocation to the Social Fund should be based on the measures planned in the 2014 Budget Act for pensions. The proposed solutions will also apply to an occupational social benefit fund, i.e. civil workers. For this group of employees, the basis for calculating the write-down will be the average remuneration in the national economy in the second half of 2014, i.e. PLN 3389.90. This means that the basis for calculating the share social benefit fund increases by PLN 111.76 compared to the base of 2013, which results in an increase of 3.41%. It should also be noted that in the case of the budgetary sphere, i.e. Budgetary units of budgetary establishments, expenditure on the occupational welfare fund are compulsory, while for other employers the rules for the creation of the fund depend on the number of persons employed. Another amendment, which is proposed in this bill, is to amend the Bill on the Charter of the Large Family. The proposed provision concerns an amendment of the limits of expenditure adopted for 2019 by the municipalities and the minister responsible for the implementation of this law. families and entitlement to reduced travel by means of public collective transport for parents and spouses of parents holding an important Large Family Charter. Taking into account much more than was assumed in the estimation of the above. limits, interest in the Charter of the Large Family members of multi-child families who had a total of at least three children, the limits adopted will be insufficient to implement the bill in the current year. That's why it's changed. The increase in expenditure related to the implementation of the law by the municipalities will amount to 210 000. PLN, and in the case of production of cards - by 3 million PLN. On the other hand, in terms of entitlement to reduced travel by public collective transport for parents and spouses of parents holding an important Large Family Charter, it will amount to about PLN 8 million. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Andrzej Noblecht. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u16	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law on special arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2019, the Act on an occupational social benefit fund and the Bill on the Charter of the Large Family, print No 3771. The main objective of this law is to unfreeze from 1 August 2019 the social benefit fund in relation to the size set out in the Act of 9 November 2018 on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, commonly referred to as the Around Budget Act. In accordance with the rules in force, the granting of services and benefits and the amount of social benefit fund fees shall be subject to the circumstances of the living, family and material person entitled to receive them. The rules and conditions for the use of social services and benefits shall be laid down by the employer in collective agreements. The proposed unfreeze of social fund write-downs will contribute to support and consequently improve the living conditions of workers and other entitled persons. At this point, it should be recalled that according to the Act on the Social Benefits Fund of 1994 write-downs and increases for a given calendar year, the employer shall transfer to the bank account of the Social Benefits Fund, known as the Fund, within two time limits: until 31 May and 30 September of the calendar year concerned. The proposed law introduces the deadline of 31 October 2019 as the deadline for the payment to the bank account of the fund of additional measures provided for in the proposed law. Art. Points 1 and 2 of this Act amends the amount of the write-down from 1 August 2019 to the social fund for persons entitled to provide pensions to uniformed services and their family members. Art. Point 1 (3) empowers the Minister responsible for public finances to carry out transfers of expenditure between departments, chapters and paragraphs of the classification of expenditure of the State budget in order to finance the expenditure referred to in this draft law. According to Art. 2 of this project is proposed that by 31 July 2019 the fund should be based on the monthly remuneration of the second half of 2013, i.e. the amount of PLN 3278.14 and from 1 August 2019 on the second half of 2014, i.e. the amount of PLN 3389.90. The purpose of this provision is to unfreeze another year of the fund's write-down base starting on 1 August 2019. Art. 3 of this law concerns the amendment of the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Large Family Charter Act, i.e. changes in the expenditure limits adopted for 2019 by the municipalities and the minister responsible for family matters and the entitlement to reduced travel by means of public collective transport for parents and spouses of parents holding the Large Family Charter. Maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget for the period 2017 to 202028 [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the implementation of the law by municipalities, voivodeships, the Minister responsible for Family Affairs and the Minister responsible for Transport is 763 930 thousand. zł. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this draft law in the further legislative procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u17	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will be presented by Paulina Hennig-Kloska. Come on in, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present the position of the Club on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on an Factory Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. When we discussed these solutions proposed for 2019 in due time, i.e. at the beginning of this year, we clearly indicated that the freezing of write-downs to the social fund has no justification. We are at a time of economic prosperity, the state budget, according to government representatives, is doing great, and therefore any freezing of thresholds - whether in relation to the social fund or, in turn, for citizens, for example. tax thresholds - there is no slightest justification. However, for some strange reasons unknown to us at the beginning of the year, the government of Law and Justice froze the write-down threshold for the social fund, keeping it at the level of the 2013 budget law. And all of a sudden, today we have this fund to unfreeze, to a small extent, but still. Only that again we want to make commitments to the budget units, vis-à-vis the private sector backwards, because, as the representative of the PiS Club has already pointed out here, these new rules are to apply from 1 August 2019. Question: "Did anyone ask the local authorities if someone asked the private sector - because private companies employing more than 50 people have an obligation to set aside funds for an occupational welfare fund - do they have the funds reserved for this purpose in their budgets?" After all, this is the cost they will have to bear. What happened that suddenly, a month before the election, you want to increase this fund? And what are you really gonna use that money for? Tell us openly. As such, we are in favour of proceeding on this further on the committee, but we would like to know what is the true bottom of this bill, which is introduced in a sudden manner on September 11th, with a change in backwards, because that is what it will look like. And local governments, and the private sector have a calculated budget, and only part of the benefits will be directly and will be implemented directly from the state budget, will remain just from the government budget, from the private sector budget. We'd like to know what you're really looking at... who you're gonna give for vacations under the pear tree a month before the election, because looking at this bill, that's exactly how I read it. As regards the increase in the limit for the Large Family Charter, if necessary, if the fund has been exhausted, the limit has been exhausted, of course we should do so. I regret the fact that we have to go back to it, that the government could not calculate it at the right level at the beginning of this year. As I said, we are in favour of proceeding further over this law in committee, but we would like to know the real purpose of proceeding over this law in a sudden manner, with a date backwards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u19	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will be presented by Mr Piotr Walkowski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Coalition Poland at the beginning I will say that we are in favour of further proceding. However, we are concerned with similar questions as those which you have just mentioned, why so late and why after, since it has been 1.5 months since 1 August, before the law enters into force, it will be 2 months. I'm the boss. The Greater Poland Agricultural Chamber and we must adopt changes in the budget by means of a general meeting and amendments to the budget resolution. Therefore, for an institution such as myself or others, this will be a problem, it is a matter of setting up an additional general meeting, it is a cost, and an increase in funds for employee benefits, social benefits will be small. I think we should make a permanent determination, as it was, without freezing, what is the average wage, for what period, as is the law adopted. And then there will be virtually no problems, whenever the budget for a given year is adopted, these measures will be secured. As regards the changes regarding the increase in funds to secure the carriage by public means of those who hold the Large Family Charter, of course we are as a club in favour. I would just like to mention that in the previous term the club of the Polish People's Party was the author of this law, I had the pleasure of reporting assumptions concerning a large family. I am pleased that these solutions provide support for families of many kinds, in various projects. In this case, which we are discussing, it is a question of travel, but also the question of using forms of recreation, with pools, with places of culture, as well as the Charter of the Big Family. Individual local authorities have invited different types of entrepreneurs providing services or selling different kinds of goods to work together, and thanks to the ownership of these cards, the expenditure on family maintenance is decreasing. Therefore, members of these families are able to benefit more from the opportunities offered by various types of solutions in the area of so-called. public life, as I have already mentioned, in terms of recreation, sport or culture. As I said at the beginning, the Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland is in favour of continuing the work on this project in parliament committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Kukiz Club15 will be presented by Mr Grzegorz Długi, whom I do not see. I would like to inform the High House that the position of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni, has been put forward in writing. Let's get to the questions. Four MPs signed up for the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister what percentage is higher than expected to be of interest to the Large Family Charter programme and to what extent this will have an impact on the use of the funds allocated for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u23	Thank you very much, Member. Member Adam Sněžek, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I know from practice how important social funds are in workplaces, how they help workers burdened with a large family, children, especially in situations of chance, in case of illness, how important it is for pensioners who have low pensions. I remember that the sum of social funds on a national scale is calculated in billions. I would like to ask the Minister, maybe the Minister of Sweden, how much is the sum of social funds in the country today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about a really very important fund that they are waiting for, as my previous speaker said, the weakest. Minister! In 2018, we passed a law that gives the possibility to pay compensation for the coal equivalent that was taken from the miners. Widows and orphans have been waiting since June for these funds to be paid. The Minister of Energy keeps saying that the Minister of Finance has not transferred money to the Ministry of Energy for this purpose. I would like to ask you: When will these weakest, most injured widows and orphans on the miners receive money? I get hundreds of calls every day about this. Minister! It's time to keep your word. You promised, you didn't give up the coal debt, so it's time you kept your word and paid your compensation. Till today, these people haven't received it. The Minister of Energy says that [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no money, then he blames the budget committee for not meeting. Minister! I ask you because you are responsible for this money: When will they be found and when will these people receive this money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the club's statements, there were suspicions that the adoption of this bill was economical in nature, that it involved elections. That's why I'm asking the Minister, what year was the first time these funds were frozen for the social fund. According to the current law, the limit for the Large Family Charter for 2019 was PLN 55 million. How have these projected spending on the Large Family Charter developed over recent years? What is the dynamics resulting from more and more families joining this program? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the government, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Tomasz Robaczyński, will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Two questions raised the question of interest in the Big Family Charter funds. We are seeing almost twice as much interest as was originally anticipated, so this mechanism is quite popular and is beginning to enjoy a lot of popularity. Therefore, these limits should be amended. As far as the sum of social funds is concerned across the country, it is now difficult for me to answer this question and, if you allow it, we would put this answer in writing. On the other hand, as regards the question of payout to the miners' widows, as far as I know, a request has been made to the finance committee to change the destination of the special-purpose reserve. After the committee has completed its work, these funds will be gradually transferred to the Ministry of Energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u32	Minister! I would like to ask you about the difference between the proposed increased expenditure limit for the implementation of the Large Family Charter Act and the financial needs the municipalities are therefore reporting. Will the proposed increase in the limit significantly address these needs?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. This draft around-budget law assumes, among others, increase from 1 August 2019 the write-down base for the occupational social benefit fund and the write-down basis for the social benefit fund for pensioners entitled to provide pensions to uniformed services and their family members. The proposed rules assume that both copies will be frozen by one year, i.e. the basis for calculating the write-down to the social benefit fund will not be monthly remuneration in the economy in the second half of 2013, but in the second half of 2014, and the basis for calculating the write-down to the social benefit fund for eligible pensioners will be pension and pension funds calculated for 2014 and not - as has been the case so far - for 2013. I have no doubt that these changes are not only expected but also needed. The occupational welfare fund is a tool designed to support the most vulnerable, long-term or temporary persons in difficult health or living situations. The increase in the write-down to the fund is an important help for workers and their families, since it means more money for holidays, material assistance and random benefits. In my opinion, it requires that while for many years the government of the PO-PSL coalition has remained at the same level as the social fund, the Government of the United Right once again raises the amount paid for the employee to the occupational social benefit fund, showing that it does not intend to seek savings at the expense of the poorest citizens. And what I'm happy about is that he's doing it in a responsible way, looking at the possibilities of the budget. I am convinced that, with such rational financial management, we can expect further changes in this area. I welcome the fact that this proposal also provides for an increase in expenditure limits for the implementation of the Large Family Charter Act. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u34	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family, contained in print No 3771, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 2 and 3 of the agenda: 2. Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft Public Procurement Law (Prints No 3624 and 3759). 3. Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law Rules introducing the Public Procurement Law (Prints No 3625 and 3760). I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to present the Commission's reports in prints 3759 and 3760. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an extremely important project or two projects jointly considered regarding the new Public Procurement Law. There are a number of problems in the public procurement market. This is largely the result of complex procedures and a very formalised approach to the whole procurement process. There are also disproportionate risks. There is a lack of sufficient control over the performance of contracts resulting from the award of public contracts. The result is a decline in interest in public procurement, a clear reduction in competitiveness, unfortunately also a reduction in the quality of the goods and services delivered and later problems concerning the lives of certain products. Some of these phenomena confirm very important facts. Last year around 50% tenders resulted in the submission of only one offer. In the case of many tenders, these were only two offers. Therefore, it is difficult to say about competitiveness. By law, we want to change these realities of recent times, to significantly improve the efficiency of public procurement. The solutions proposed in the draft law aim to increase competitiveness in the public procurement market and access to the procurement market for small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim is to better manage the entire purchasing process, enhance the role of contracting and contractor cooperation, improve appeal systems, control system, allow identification of strategic contracts and those contracts that are innovative. It is important to improve the procurement procedure, especially in procedures below the EU thresholds. It's interesting, for example. solutions requiring analysis prior to the launch of the procurement procedure in order to achieve the best possible results from the inputs concerned and to select the best methods and means to achieve the objectives pursued. The law allows for precise definition of the principles of cooperation, the conduct of a catalogue of prohibited clauses as regards the content of the contract. It also introduces new rules for valorisation - which is extremely important - pay, as well as the obligation to apply advances or partial payments in contracts over 12 months. Detailed rules shall be laid down concerning the guarantee of proper performance of the contract. The amount of the security shall be determined in percentage to the total price indicated in the tender or the maximum nominal value of the contracting authority's contractual obligation if the tender contains a unit price or unit prices. The security shall be fixed at a rate not exceeding 5% the total price. In order to simplify the conduct of public procurement procedures, the draft law provides for the principle of optionality of a security applicable to all proceedings carried out under the provisions of the law. The appeal procedure will be improved and mediation mechanisms or other amicable solutions will be put in place in the event of disputes. The rules introduced will better ensure the interests of subcontractors. The reduction of court fees on complaints at the second instance will ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are more accessible to benefit from a complaint against the decisions of the National Board of Appeal. Formalities in non-competitive proceedings will be limited, e.g. in free-hand order mode. The rules on negotiated procedures will be clarified. The project includes solutions for procedures related to the innovation partnership. There will also be a completely remodeled set of solutions in the competition procedures. The solutions of the new law strengthen the role of the President of the Public Procurement Office in preparing and promoting good practices that will support contracting authorities. The drafts were worked in detail at the committee meeting. There have been a number of voices from the social side present at the committee meeting, a number of topics have been submitted for re-examination by the Ministry and by the Public Procurement Office, which will undoubtedly result in amendments today, so that this document - reflecting very intensive work, very many meetings, three-year preparations - is a good document that actually introduces long-awaited solutions so that the whole process is simpler, more transparent, but also competitive, just ensures quality. Given that this work has resulted in a report being prepared and submitted to the High House, I ask that these reports be adopted and that it should continue to be examined - it is about the printing reports 3624 and 3625 - so that, indeed, during this term of office, the Sejm can successfully complete this very large work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u36	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mrs Anna April. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the club Law and Justice regarding the Public Procurement Law, which regulates the participation of the public sector in the Polish economy, as well as the provisions introducing this law into the legal system. It is a very important act, it will certainly affect the way and quality of doing business in Poland. The current law was established in 2004, and thus just before Poland entered the European Union, before the huge transfer of public funds. At present, the potential of the current law has been exhausted, and it has ceased to be attractive enough for the private sector to benefit from existing law to the extent that it uses its potential. One of the main identified problems of the current law is the disproportionate share of small and medium-sized enterprises in the public procurement market, so for national proceedings below the EU thresholds, the law introduces a new, easier procedure which does not require procedures based on EU directives. Operators will be able to award contracts using a flexible simplified procedure, which gives the possibility, first and foremost, to negotiate offers to a wider or narrower extent. By introducing solutions beneficial to contractors, this Subcontractor Act is not forgotten. The Act is intended to guarantee them the exercise of all rights exercised by contractors. Contractors were obliged to take appropriate care of the interests of subcontractors, therefore, among others. the law contains provisions that ensure that the provisions of contracts with subcontractors are no less favourable than those of contracts with contractors in terms of contractual penalties, payments or valorisation. Open to small and medium-sized enterprises will be used to change the competition procedure. The competition procedure is simplified, the new competition will allow, among others. for the conclusion of a contract for the performance of a service with which competition work was involved, not only for the design and execution of the project. If we are talking about small and medium-sized companies, it is important to stress the provisions that aim to improve their liquidity, thus reducing the requirements for deposits and advances, as well as the obligation to pay advances and advance payments when the contract goes beyond a period of 12 months. Today, liquidity problems very often make small companies unable to participate in tenders, because they simply cannot afford a security deposit or security. These requirements, which are today, are far too excessive, therefore in the smaller national procedures in the simplified procedure the maximum value of the security which the contracting authority may demand is reduced by half - to 1.5%. In addition, the maximum security that the contracting authority may require shall be 10%. the total price quoted in the tender. The Act introduces a number of conciliation, mediation proceedings, because every settlement is better and more effective than a court order. In addition, the Act proposes solutions for the issue of value-added contracts - that is, a thing that is really very important - and that the price should not be the main condition for consent to the performance of the contract. Important changes also concern the system of legal remedies, namely the reduction of the complaint fee for the ruling of the National Board of Appeal, the extension of the time limit for bringing an action against the decision of the National Board of Appeal. In addition, the Act strengthens the role of the President of the Public Procurement Office in preparing and promoting good practices and model documents. Law and Justice fully supports the bill, but in the course of work in response to a number of suggestions, especially from the social side, we have prepared amendments which I wish to present to your marshal and ask for further proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u38	Thank you, Member. Our meeting is being listened to by a group from Lipowiec from the gallery. I would very much like to welcome you. [[Applause]] On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will present his position. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition to present a position in relation to the Public Procurement Law Act 3624 and 3759. I will not hide that as chairman of the economic committee I was disappointed that this law did not go to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, but to the deregulation committee. When we worked on the revision of the previous Public Procurement Act in 2016, we examined the project very carefully, we established a special subcommittee. Everyone could have participated in the procession. It was very good to prepare this amendment and to make a number of changes that improved this amendment, which was then adopted. We have a bill that the resort has been working on for three years. The effect is indeed impressive. This is 600 articles, 500 pages, 1500 pages of justification and impact assessment. This material was very extensive. In this connection, Vice-President Maria Janyska suggested that perhaps it is too short a period to really focus on the content of this law and to proceed with it after the elections. That's not what happened. It's a good thing there's a long vacathio legis. Therefore, if we see some shortcomings in this law - and there are already many of them - we will now present a number of amendments - we will still be able to try to correct it. Like I said, this bill has been consulted over this three-year period, and it's pretty broad. Entrepreneurs pointed out that the principles of good legislation had been respected in this regard. The long vacathio legis confirms it, too. I think that this thing that we are most interested in, for example, because of the information that we receive, about the very frequent situations that the contractor withdraws from the contract, because the prices of materials and labor have so gone up that the negotiated price and contracts signed on the basis of old settlements have already turned out to be uncapped and the company, in order not to fall, not lose, must so for a good cause refuse to carry out the contract further... We have placed a great deal of emphasis on the fact that in a situation where the prices of articles, materials and labour actually go up significantly and it is clear that it is impossible to carry out this contract with this money, the contracting authority has not decided to renegotiate the contract, only to make it from the vending machine. Factors, cost increases are clearly defined, even through inflation or through GUS indicators, and already on this basis some solutions could be put in place, which from the machine will give the possibility to renegotiate the contract. That's not the kind of thing there is. At the moment, the contractor is doomed to the good will of the contracting authority. We don't think that's the best solution. Therefore, we do not rule out that this will be one of the elements on which we will prodecide in the next term of the Sejm that we will actually be able to introduce certain actions from the vending machine into this law in order to prevent the situation that we have at the moment. And the situation is really extremely difficult. Many investments, above all public-purpose investments, are at risk. I can give you an example. Yesterday I spoke to representatives of the construction industry. In the last 5 months the price of 1 m2 in the building increased by almost 1300 PLN. This shows the scale of the increases we're seeing on this market. So we want these amendments to be taken into account now, but we do not hide that we will also seek to introduce in the next term of the Sejm provisions which will guarantee the contractors that if there are significant increases in the price of materials and labour, they will be able to apply for the renegotiation of the contract, for valorisation, and that the contracting authority will not be able to oppose such a proposal. I'm putting in your hands the Marshal of the amendments tabled [[♪ The bell ♪]] at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u40	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Polska, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u41	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I have the honour to present my position on the draft Public Procurement Law. A very comprehensive proposal for the regulation of public procurement in the basic version was adopted, as it already rained here, more than 15 years ago. The law that regulates these issues is dated 29 January 2004. In the meantime, of course, it was updated. Numerous changes have also been made as a result of the transposition of EU directives. As we can see, the introduction of this law was carried out under very different conditions of the legal and economic environment. It is enough to say that Poland was still outside the structures of the European Union. It is also worth noting that the preparation and adoption of the new law was very expected both by the contracting authorities and by the contracting authorities applying for public contracts and that the consultations with these entities provided a lot of comments. Their tabular summary is - note - 700 pages of printing. I don't know the second law. This clearly demonstrates the interest of the parties in the subject of public procurement. I think that also shows the complexity of these issues. It is very interesting to analyse the comments submitted. Most of the controversy seems to have aroused the record. on the proposal to organise meetings with contractors prior to the conclusion of the contract. Entrepreneurs would then know the reasons why their offer was not selected. The doubts about what this information would be provided by the contracting authorities at this meeting, and about what the contractor might do with this knowledge, have concluded that the proposals for this provision have been widely criticised. Another issue that raised a great deal of opposition is the preparation of proceedings. Many contracting representatives took the view that these provisions of the Act would delay the investment process. And we have a whole range of comments about the basic procedure introduced by the provisions of this law. The provisions contained in these provisions were intended to facilitate the access of smaller entities to contracts. However, there were also voices in the discussion about the need for some standardisation of tender documents and proceedings. High Izbo! The importance of this issue in the field of public procurement is that certain amounts, certain data, are best characterized. The value of contracts awarded under the procedures provided for in the Public Procurement Law is - I have data from 2017 - PLN 173.2 billion and in 2016 - PLN 107 billion. The approximate value of the public procurement market, including contracts awarded without these procedures, amounted to PLN 234.6 billion in 2017 and PLN 174 billion in 2016. That's a lot of money. Public procurement has a direct and immediate impact on the national economy, including its most important sectors. In many sectors, for every fourth trader, public procurement revenue accounts for half or more than half of the total revenue, and for every tenth - 10% Entrepreneurs - 75% revenue is revenue from public procurement. The current Public Procurement Law does not have a separate classic procurement section below and above the Union thresholds, and the procedures and rules for the award of national contracts do not actually differ from those relating to Union procurement. The proposed amendment proposes that the new law should distinguish and significantly simplify and make the procurement procedure below the Union thresholds more flexible by departing from the procedures applicable to contracts above the Union thresholds and increasing the autonomy of the contracting authority in shaping the procedure for the selection of the economic operator. Many other comments could be made, in total positive, and all this, I declare on behalf of the club Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Coalition Polska support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u42	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski will present the position of the Kukiz Club15. He's not gonna show, because he's not here. Ms Małgorzata Chmiel has come forward to ask questions, High Izbo. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. You're welcome... [[One question is two minutes.]] Mr President, are you asking a question? No. ...Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question which I also asked during the previous revision of the Public Procurement Law and I did not receive an answer. Namely where is the corresponding quality score of the architectural design written here? It's not there. We lead to such a situation that the worse and cheaper the project, the higher the score gets during the tender. At the request of the Polish Chamber of Architects, as well as the SARP, I ask once again to include in the amendments a score for the quality of the architectural project. Ladies and gentlemen! This environment is something that brings us up and shapes us, and architecture also affects us very much, so let's make sure that it is of the best quality together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u44	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr Marek Niebożak, will speak on behalf of the Government. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Before I answer the question - I will also try to speak briefly - I will say this: thank you very much for the votes in the club speeches. I would just like to draw attention to something, because in one of the speeches there was a statement that there were a lot of comments on the concept, the idea of meetings with unelected performers. I confirm, there have been a lot of comments to this solution and therefore already at an earlier stage we have given up this solution, which is currently not in the project, although, by the way, it also has some advantages, it allows these unelected contractors to learn more about the motives that led the contracting authority and perhaps also learn some lessons from it. With regard to the question asked by the Member, I would like to point out that according to the draft article. 325 here we have the possibility to organize a competition in order to choose a creative work, which in particular may concern such elements as: spatial planning, urban design, architectural design, architectural design and construction, and several others, but this is the case most. On the other hand, according to the mouth. 2 of this Article, if the contracting authority intends to award a contract for architectural or architectural design services, the contract should be preceded by a competition. Thus, the competition is mandatory in such cases. And it is precisely the competition that answers the question of whether, say, some of the needs indicated by the question made by the Member, because in this competition, which, as I said, is mandatory in the case of architectural design, architectural and construction, there is also a field for taking into account aesthetic issues. Please bear in mind what happened earlier in club speeches, that Public Procurement Law must balance more interests than one. I am aware that the Commissioner is talking about aesthetics, the quality of architecture, but please remember that it is important, for example. the efficiency of the public money spent or, what is much to say here, the perspective of the contracting authority. Therefore, in many places, not only in this one, different perspectives are balanced in the project. I am aware that this is always a compromise, and the compromise means that, as a rule, one of the sides, in this case architects, wishes that this should take even more account of their perspective and, to a lesser extent, the perspective of the performers. Not the contractors, sorry, just the ordering people. We have tried to do a project that is acceptable to everyone, and I hope that this mandatory competition is to some extent an answer to these needs. Thank you very much. [[Can I make it up? I didn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u46	Thank you very much. There is no such procedure: supplementing the question. [[Okay, corrigendum.]] In corrigendum mode. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u47	Thank you very much. I don't think you understand. The competitions are and will continue to be governed by the Public Procurement Law. I meant the procedure: design and build. There the quality of the architectural design does not have a score that should be suitable for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u48	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to complete his statement? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: Maybe very briefly.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u49	Member, very briefly. My colleagues tell me that in the case of such a procedure, the proposed article applies. 243, which also requires the contracting authority to choose on the basis of quality criteria, which also include aesthetic requirements. Thank you. [[Yeah, but that's not enough.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u51	Minister! Diagnosed problems in the field of public procurement are undisputed. In principle, their catalogue could be expanded depending on the specifics of local experience. At the same time, our government's repeated attention, also right, is the need to simplify solutions and procedures in order to unlock the potential of Poles, especially on the background of the economy and entrepreneurship. However, the proposed law has 623 articles against 227 articles of the Act in force today. Are you sure that almost three times the volume of regulation, in which we are obviously finding a lot of good records, will encourage the proposed increase in the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement procedures?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u52	As amendments were tabled at the time of the second reading to both draft laws submitted, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs (prints no. 3689 and 3754). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs, print no. 3689. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of the contested draft Print Act No 3689 at its meeting of 9 August 2019, requests that it be adopted by the High Sejm without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u54	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, the position will be presented by Mr Józef Leśniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs, print no. 3689. The subject of the bill is primarily to enable the creation and functioning of foreign branches and foreign subsidiaries of the Polish Institute of International Affairs. The proposed law has a fundamental objective of more effective implementation of the Institute's tasks. This is due both to the need to adapt the relevant legislation to the new challenges in the international arena and to the way similar institutions operate in other European countries. Such a solution justifies the need to equip the Polish Institute of International Affairs with an additional instrument for carrying out statutory tasks, such as analytical and expert support of the most important authorities of the State of the Republic of Poland in the field of foreign policy conduct or promotion of the Polish expert position abroad. Similar regulations work they are already in the process of being introduced in the Czech Republic, Germany, France, the United Kingdom or Spain. The procedated bill assumes the creation by the Polish Institute of International Affairs of local branches with the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers, after obtaining a positive opinion of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. The director appointed and cancelled by the Director of the Institute will be headed by the local branch. With the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers, PISM will be able to transform and remove local branches after obtaining a positive opinion from the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. The Institute will also be able to establish subsidiaries, in legal and organisational form, depending on their place of establishment, including in the form of a capital company, after obtaining the approval of the President of the Council of Ministers and after obtaining a positive opinion of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. The subsidiary shall be headed by the Director in the case of the Director of the Institute. Similarly, under similar conditions as in the case of local branches, the Institute will be able to transform and liquidate subsidiaries. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u56	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Killion Munyama. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u57	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition on the parliamentary project, which is included in print No 3689. The subject of the bill is in particular to enable the creation and functioning of foreign centers, or rather local branches and foreign subsidiaries of the Polish Institute of International Affairs, which is intended to improve the performance of the tasks of PISM. It seems that the adoption of the proposed law may allow the purpose of the law to be achieved, but there are questions and doubts in this regard. The designer does not provide sufficient funding for future expenditure related to the creation of the above mentioned. branches and subsidiaries, which may be considered as a failure to comply with the draft law. The questions are also raised: Why the proposed law is not limited to the creation of the two above. Centres, as indicated in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' explanatory notes on the draft budget for 2019, but gives the possibility to create an unspecified number of them? Further questions concern whether the legislative changes establishing the legal basis for setting up centres are not too late and whether this does not jeopardise the implementation of the expenditure planned for this purpose this year. The question also arises: How much will it cost to operate local centres, and from what sources will it be financed in the coming years? In the light of previous practice, these could mainly be State budget resources. It should also be noted that the financing of the tasks of PISM so far, so before introducing the possibility of opening branches or subsidiaries of PISM outside Poland, was quite modest. This was due to budgetary constraints on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs related to the application of expenditure rules. In addition, the funding was based practically on subsidies from the state budget. Where will the funds come from to finance the activities of branches or subsidiaries? The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will oppose this project because it was notified very late, while providing for the entry into force of the Act 14 days after its signature, which will prevent the financing of the tasks of PISM in particular this year. We will therefore vote against this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u58	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will be heard by Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the club Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Coalition Polska on the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs, I would like to stress that this bill was needed. The development of the Polish Institute of International Affairs is needed. Unlike my previous speaker, we believe that if we read the justification of this project correctly, we will find answers to most of the questions raised, which is why the Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland is in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u60	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Długi, whom I do not see, was to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. Therefore, we move on to questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time - one minute. Mr Killion Munyama will be the first question to be asked. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions. Namely, why is the foreign minister's competence to set up these local branches taken away? The project states that this will be the decision of the President of the Council of Ministers. Second question. Why was there no consultation in this regard? Third question. The designer stresses that a number of analytical institutions operating in the field of international affairs currently operate foreign offices or are in the process of creating them. Do we at this stage have patterns in the functioning of such institutions in the field of international affairs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u62	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question because this is another institute, another company, the company you're organizing, more money flowing through, more people having jobs. Of course, these people are chosen only from the ruling environment. I wanted to ask: Where is the budget for funding the next change and the next institute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u64	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Konrad Szymański, will speak on behalf of the Government. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would like to present a positive recommendation for the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. Equiping the Polish Institute of International Affairs with new opportunities for organisational development in the form of the establishment of local branches, both in the country and in the Member States of the European Union, as well as the creation of subsidiaries abroad in the case of countries outside the European Union will certainly contribute to the better development of the Polish Institute of International Affairs, to the presentation of even better quality support for the operation of public administration, for the public debate in Poland on international matters, and will create unique opportunities to promote Polish expertise abroad. Given the very significant internationalisation of the public debate, including in cases which do not have a direct link with traditionally narrow international relations, this is a necessary step. It's a good thing this bill came out. I recommend you, I encourage you to support these statutory amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u66	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u67	Minister! The opposition politicians even express their votum separatum against such an obvious project. I would therefore like to ask you to provide Members of the opposition in writing with information about the importance of analytical and expert institutions having direct contacts with people and institutions of this kind in other countries from the point of view of Polish diplomacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u68	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws (Prints No. 3753 and 3806). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee on Public Finance with the second committee, a government draft law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws, print No 3753 was discussed. 14 amendments were tabled during reading. Following a detailed analysis of these amendments, following the comments of the Legislative Bureau, all amendments were accepted by the committees. I therefore recommend to the High House that this bill be adopted together with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u70	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Mr Andrzej Noblecht.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u71	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws, print No. 3753. As stated at the first reading of this important bill, the purpose of amending the Law of 17 June 1966 is to simplify the administrative procedures for administrative execution, which would benefit not only creditors and enforcement authorities but also the obliged. The main emphasis of the proposed amendments is on the facilitation of enforcement procedures in relation to the obliged person. This concerns changes in the handling of appeals and at the same time the separation of powers between the enforcement authority and the creditor. A specific protection measure has been introduced for the spouse in respect of the execution of the assets of the joint spouses where separate provisions provide for liability with the common property for the monetary claim. In addition, a protection measure has been introduced for the owner of the property or property under the law of the court, which protects the cash claims incurred in the administrative execution. 14 amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice were considered during the detailed discussion of the various articles of this draft law. Amendment 1 introduced the provision that a statement on the assets and sources of income held shall be made under the strictest criminal liability for the lodging of a false statement. Amendment 2 is based on the adaptation of Article. 26ca for the issue of another electronic instrument. Amendment 3 aims to adapt Article. 67 § 1 to the amendment resulting from Article. 3 Commercial Companies Code Act. Amendment 4 aims to eliminate doubts as to whether in Article. 67 and Article 67 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and The next amendment, amendment 5, is intended to adapt the article setting out the enforcement authorities entitled to carry out checks on the correctness of implementation of the enforcement measure applied by debtors to the amendment consisting of the repeal of Article. 19 § 3. Amendment 6 aims to adapt terminology within a single editorial unit by replacing the words "tax collector" by "worker serving the enforcement body." Amendment 7 is an adaptation of the Article. 164 § 2b to the amendment introduced by the Act of 4 July 2019. Code of Administrative Procedure. Amendment 8 is intended to include in Article. 166c of the Member States of the European Union and third countries in protective proceedings. Amendment 9 aims to take account of the amendments to the Act of 4 July 2019. Amendment 10 aims to remove discrepancies between the provisions of the Enforcement Act and the provisions of the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund. Amendment 11 is intended to provide access to data from the list of students and PhD students in order to carry out basic tasks by the National Tax Administration. Amendment 12 is to adapt the Act of 4 July 2019 amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration to the changes resulting from the draft of the Act presented. Amendment 13 aims to ensure that the amended provisions can be applied to the co-execution of administrative and judicial execution after the entry into force of the law, not one day after the entry into force of that law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Amendment 14 is of a more precise nature as regards the references to Article. 62b § Point 1 (1). These amendments have been accepted by the joint committees, which is why the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this important bill in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u72	Thank you, sir. The position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present comments on the draft law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws. My previous speaker said: important project, needed project. I'll start with how prepared he was. Thus, this project was prepared in such a way that the Legislative Office prepared 100 legislative amendments for it. Therefore, when we are talking about the formal side, as regards the legal committee that the government is preparing, it can be said that this work has not been properly applied. That's the first point. The second point to the short rule of law for the work in the finance committee, because we will talk about public offering, about other laws, is that there are as many as 14 amendments. He wants to talk about the introduction of a national judicial administration. Probably 500 fixes. So we are talking about an important thing, a thing that would improve the effectiveness of administrative execution. But so many amendments? That's a start. My and my club's attention is on how enforcement proceedings in the administration or proceedings conducted by bailiffs are to be conducted at all. It's gonna hook up with one more piece. It is the execution of real estate in the case of both the needs of the creditor in the administration and the needs of other creditors in the market. It is necessary to improve court procedures, because in the case of real estate executions in court there is a narrow throat - from carrying out the entire enforcement procedure from real estate in court to breaking, successive stages to dividing the sums obtained in real estate executions. This period is extremely long if such property can be sold. This will apply, Minister, also to the administrative authorities where you are trying to claim due claims. That's one thing. Secondly, I want to put this quote: there are only certain deaths and taxes in life. That's what Benjamin Franklin said. As far as we are concerned about the fact that we have a specific obligation, we are to carry out it and prepare effective action, in this effectiveness of action, if we treat it this way - and this is one of the last meetings or last sitting - we have little time to deal with this issue. I regret that we are talking about this at the very end, because my questions regarding improvements in the court's real estate enforcement proceedings have not been answered, saying that the resort does not deal with it. So, if we prepare the whole solution to the electronic way of execution, which is to improve this execution, we're not talking about the second pillar, the second leg of this action. Our doubts are raised by the coincidence of enforcement titles from the properties conducted, as indicated, on the local jurisdiction of the bailiffs. That's one thing. There is also the matter of putting the tax collector in place of the tax collector's amendment, and the enforcement staff have not been identified and shown that these will only be delegations for specific enforcement activities. If this is to be true, it should be a qualified worker. It is also doubtful that a regulation may be issued so that the National Tax Administration can indicate who will carry out these duties. Now the date of entry into force of the law - 9 months to prepare a complete IT system in the field of execution. There are other things I'm not talking about, the execution of the bank account and the other things I'm not talking about, but we have big doubts about whether you, first of all, will be able to... As we talked about a single control file and the creation of a special entity to implement this action. We welcome the fact that where there are commitments, they need to be paid, improvements, but in our opinion [[♪ The bell ♪]] The tools chosen do not fully guarantee success and, above all, the effectiveness of this solution has not been stated. That is the answer I expect from the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u74	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland. I don't see your MP. So the Kukiz Posel Club15, Mrs Barbara Chrobak. There isn't either. No one came forward to ask questions. So I'm closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws, prints No. 3753 and 3806. The proposed law aims at simplifying the procedure for this procedure and speeding up the collection of public debts. The project introduces the principle of electronic transmission of implementing titles, allowing for their automatic verification and registration in the electronic system of the enforcement authority. The project assumes among others. the possibility for the creditor and the enforcement authority to request the data necessary for drawing up the status protocol. Organs, calling on the obliged person to submit the abovementioned document. statements will be required to instruct the debtor about the threat of criminal liability. The proposed provision will enable the creditor to obtain information on the assets of the debtor before the enforcement procedure is initiated. To date, the above-mentioned document has been drawn up. the minutes were the exclusive authority of the enforcement body. Another of the proposed changes concerns the need to include instructions for the obliged creditor to notify the creditor of the change of address of residence or residence, and also the enforcement authority, the head of the tax office, when the execution is initiated. Non-compliance with the above mentioned criteria. the obligation will result in the service of letters at the previous place of residence or residence. Despite its failure to do so, it will have legal effect. In addition, the notice generated automatically may not contain the signature of the authorised person. Thus, the new proposed amendments will derogate from the general principle of granting notice by signature of the authorised person. In the event of doubt as to the authenticity of the obliged person, he may exercise the right to bring charges in respect of administrative execution - inadmissibility of administrative execution. The changes covered by this project will also concern delegations for the adoption of a regulation setting out the model of the implementing title. This will result from the introduction into the Act of a new type of implementing title, i.e. the next implementing title. At the same time, the proposed provision was supplemented by guidelines on how to define the model of the implementing title - the possibility of unambiguous identification of the obliged person, the debtor and his spouse or the debtor in kind was introduced. In addition, the principle that the creditor shall indicate the last known address of the person's residence will be accepted in the implementing title itself. The change in the debtor's place of residence during the period between the issuing of the instrument and the initiation of the enforcement procedure significantly impeded its conduct. High Izbo! The changes proposed in the proposed proposal seem to be a step in the right direction. We welcome the introduction of the principle of electronic transmission of implementing titles, which will allow for their automatic verification and registration. It is also a good thing that the project eliminates the duplication of proceedings between the enforcement authority and the creditor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u76	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain other laws (Prints 3718 and 3802). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u77	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission examined the government bill on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain laws, basic printing No 3718 and printing No 3802. Ladies and gentlemen, a short history of this project: a few years ago, in 2012 and 2013 it was announced that there are rich deposits of shale gas in Poland. There was a great interest of domestic and foreign actors, but later, in the years to come, this interest began to decline, and the number of applications for concessions fell from one hundred dozens to 20. On the other hand, there was no income in the financial statements of those entities that received concessions. The government, carefully analysing the reality of the application of this law, concluded that the law was becoming unobtrusive, and proposed this draft law. One amendment was tabled at the meeting yesterday following the discussion on the provisions of this law. This amendment concerns a change in the date of entry into force of this law. After the discussion, the High Commission accepted this amendment and I therefore recommend that the High House, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, adopt this bill together with this amendment, which changes the date of entry into force of the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u78	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Andrzej Noblecht. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice in relation to the government draft law on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain other laws, printing No 3718 and printing No 3802. During the first reading of the bill, it was stated that the Act on special hydrocarbon tax of 2014, because it was then adopted, was based on previous assumptions concerning the wealth of Poland in the deposit of unconventional gas. The 2015 estimates have already shown that real shale gas deposits are much smaller. As a result, the number of concessions for the exploration and recognition of shale gas decreased avalanchely, from 108 concessions between 2010 and 2013 to only 20 in 2017. The current shale gas deposits do not provide sufficient opportunities for their economic exploitation. Therefore, the legislative assumptions that the hydrocarbon tax will provide the State budget with an appropriate share of the profits from shale gas extraction are not met. The number of entities making declarations on specific hydrocarbon taxes is also falling successfully, with the vast majority of taxpayers showing losses in declarations. Therefore, the government presented a draft law, which in article. 1 introduces a legal solution for losing the power of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax. One amendment was tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance yesterday to update the date of application of the legislation, including the revised article. 27a CIT and Art. 9 of this bill. Original wording of the article. The 10th draft laying down the date of entry into force of the Act was based on the assumption that the Act would enter into force before 15 October of this year, which, taking into account the current stage of the work on the project, is unlikely. This is why the amendment proposes new real deadlines for the entry into force of the law. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will support this draft law in the vote, together with the amendment from print No 3802. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u80	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mrs Ewa Drozd. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition against the draft law repealing the law on hydrocarbon tax. As we have already heard today and at first reading, the Act repeals the Act of 25 July 2014 on a special hydrocarbon tax and at the same time changes the date for taxing the extraction of natural gas and oil as set out in the Act on the extraction of certain minerals. We also know that the repeal of this law and the introduction of new provisions governing taxation are due to the early revaluation of shale gas deposits. And we had no doubts about that. It is a pity, however, that you are doing this at the last minute, not justifying or even ignoring many doubts about the Legislative Office. And let me remind you that you have had excellent opportunities and opportunities to regulate these issues and to apply such provisions as would introduce solutions to enable mining projects to be carried out in a cost-effective way. I will also remind you that you were able to fulfill your promise made by Beata Szydło to the inhabitants of the copper region in Lubin, where she announced the elimination of what you said at the time, harmful tax. Unfortunately, you haven't taken advantage of this opportunity. Nor did you use the draft law that we submitted in 2016 and which suspended this tax in order to develop the best solutions that would allow the conduct of mining projects in Poland in a cost-effective and timely manner, would also regulate the issue of hydrocarbon tax without haste. We wouldn't have to discuss this today. And so quickly, with tight deadlines, because the amendment introduced at yesterday's committee meeting imposes a tax on companies and companies extracting gas and oil, without proper acidio legis. I would like to remind you that, according to the repealed Act, the tax was to be levied from 2020. In this regard, the Legislative Office also had doubts, and the Minister is trying to convince us that this accelerated deadline is at the request of these companies. I did not find such declarations on their part in the attached documents, but in the Ministry's explanatory memorandum you write: Accelerating the introduction of mining tax on certain minerals will have a negative impact on the finances of companies licensed and operating in the field of oil and gas extraction. I understand, Minister, that this is what companies and entrepreneurs have asked for. Companies want to have losses and problems. I'll admit, I don't know these guys. I also do not know on what basis you have stated that the proposed solution will not affect the prices of natural gas and oil. Which record does that come from? Unless of your justification. You're putting out another fire because you're on the clock, but I don't think that's the right thing to do. However, with a view to good and not blocking investment, we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u82	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, which was to be presented to Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, was presented in writing. Mr Paweł Grabowski is not here either. One Member submitted for questioning. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the above draft law we read that the tax on extraction, among others. gas is unnecessary due to small deposits of shale gas, the extraction of which is not viable. Why, then, is it not scheduled to enter into force until October 15, 2 days after the parliamentary elections? According to the applicants, the impact on the state budget will amount to about PLN 40 million per year. And what if it turns out that extraction of shale gas deposits is, however, profitable? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u84	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the government, Mr Tadeusz Kościński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u85	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As for Mrs Drozd's question, of course it is true that taxes will cost, but if we do not implement this law, even more costs will be for companies to restructure, change their structure. That's why we're implementing it. I will answer all questions in detail in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u86	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur wanted to... Uh-huh. So I'm closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u87	Minister! The law, which this amendment deletes, is one example of how the state is managed in the implementation of the PO-PSL coalition. They thought about taxing, not creating a framework for investors. Reality in the form of specific geological conditions has made mining companies difficult to avoid. Nor was the lack of a clear system framework and incentives to develop new technologies. I therefore have a question: What actions are currently being taken to create a coherent framework for creating innovative investments in gas extraction in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I submit my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on repealing the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and amending certain other laws, prints No 3718 and 3802. After analysing the project and supplementing it with a number of legislative amendments, including a substantive amendment that changes the dates of entry into force of the project, the project in our assessment is not eligible for adoption by the High House. Unfortunately, like many other projects submitted by the rulers, the project has a deep so-called project. It's the other bottom. The fact that the hydrocarbon tax is abolished is obvious because the hydrocarbon resources, so-called. The slates, they're small, and the tax won't be. The combination of changes in other laws not directly related to the lead topic is mere manipulation. The project is pushed by the PiS, despite the fact that the Legislative Office pointed out that the constitutional principle of legal security was affected in this way. Accelerating the payment of a tax on the extraction of certain minerals in the field of natural gas and oil extraction is an act of surprise for companies and will certainly lead to new regulation of energy carriers prices, to price increases.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u89	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the law on the income of local government units (prints No. 3697 and 3782). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u90	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 20 August 2019 a joint meeting was held between the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy, which held the first reading of the government draft law amending the law on the income of local government units from print No. 3697. There was a wide discussion about this project. All questions, especially those of your opposition Members, have been answered. There have been amendments, mainly of a legislative nature, which have been adopted by a high committee. I therefore recommend that the High Sejm adopt the report on printing 3782, i.e. I recommend that the High House adopt this important draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u91	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Murdzek will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The very fact of taking up this subject, the necessary to take up, as we noticed at first reading and not only at reading, urged us to talk about the finances of local governments, because this is an extremely important topic concerning the whole of Poland, especially those of our small homelands or these small regions. And if the project is necessary, because it extends the functioning mechanism so that it does not create voidness and that what has worked for many years can still function, it is the tension that it does not systematically solve all problems related to the financing of local government. But that's not the purpose of this project. Knowing that this discussion is in progress, perhaps even a little ahead of us and probably The new Parliament will discuss the finances of local and regional authorities, and indeed here we must undisputedly address this issue, so as not to create a gap in these procedures. On the other hand, as I mentioned, this raises a number of questions. On the one hand, local governments are largely - and these are billions - also profiting from economic growth, from the increase in income from PIT tax, from CIT tax, and I think that economic development results in the creation of new workplaces and subsequent facilities that increase income from real estate tax. On the other hand, it is clear that there are also new challenges, which are often mentioned in this Chamber, related to problems, whether from the world of health care, education, or the participation of local authorities in investments, in the planning of new projects. Therefore, it is extremely important that all of this is balanced and that all of the time there is an impulse for development also for the local government. But this discussion must be in-depth, in-depth, it must be carried out on the spot, in the environments, and it must be based on analyses, and later on in the joint committee these issues should also be addressed, so that they can find solutions that can function, as it were, automatically benefitting themselves, in the subsequent years of the functioning of the local government. Hence, with the full conviction that this is not the answer to all these expectations, we are undertaking to proceed with the necessary, necessary project today. Of course, there are also situations where this dialogue concerns details. Even if there is an 80% possibility to finance municipal roads , not - as before - 50% It shows that we are aware that this division is not necessarily an equal division. There are poorer communities, there are wealthy communities. It is also necessary to address the level playing field in terms of funding. There should also be mechanisms not only for classical Janosik - as we used to call it - but also for details so that this development can be sustainable development and not to exclude any self-government from the process of investment and development. These are the long-term goals for today. We recommend proceding the proposed bill and its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u93	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u94	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For the last four years, you have shifted tasks, shifted responsibility for these tasks to local governments. This is best illustrated by the situation in education, where the proportion between subsidies and actual expenditure is changing - precisely towards local governments, at increasing costs. For four years, you have not been able to prepare a system solution allowing for equalisation of income and support for poorer self-governments. For four years, you promised to make up for regional differences. It came out as usual. But in the background we still have laws, for example from the last session of the Sejm, in which you reduce the revenue of the local government. I'm talking about the Personal Income Tax Act. A little over a month ago there was a bill that abolished PIT against young people - until they were 26 years old, exempting them from personal income tax. And at the last meeting of the Sejm, there was a law that reduced the rate from 18% to 17%, increasing the cost of income. You're making things worse for the local government. You are questioning the possibility of performing public tasks at a decent level. You forget that the Polish state is not just a government. The government is feeding, while local governments will have huge problems with providing at a decent level of public services that Polish citizens benefit from. Most public services are provided by local authorities and they decide on the quality of the Polish state. Can't you see that this kind of movement, without providing compensation to local governments, is causing public service standards to be lowered? I'm saying it with stubbornness. In view of this, we propose once again a solution - in this law, because it is a law on the finances of local government units, on the income of local government units. We propose compensation for lost income in the formula of increasing the share of income tax in the municipalities, powiats, cities on the rights of the county and the voivodship. So that it doesn't have to end with a deterioration of public services. I'm going to say it again: you're making up for this loss with a cashier's fee when it comes to OFE. In the background we have another 30 times, which also involves a reduction in tax revenue, and thus will also affect local income. Stop fighting Polish government because you are fighting Polish citizens who build local communities. It's them, you're members of these communities. This must not be the case when we are talking about building a strong, strong country that cares about its citizens. I therefore call for a deeper reflection and for these amendments to be adopted, which I am submitting to your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski from the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland made a written statement. There is no Mr Grabowski, who was reported by the Kukiz Poselski Club15. Therefore, we move on to questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The question was raised by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask the rapporteur from the PIS: What kind of impetus are you talking about for the local community? I think you're living in some other parallel reality. After all, for four years of your government, you have burdened the local governments with all of your untapped ideas. An example is the deformity of education, in which the burden of all bad reform has actually fallen on local governments. The money you promised to support this change, the local authorities did not receive - not at such a high level that it could be done. Self-governments have less and less money to repair homes, apartments, sidewalks, playgrounds, also for health, because for health too, even though it is not a task of their own self-governments, they must add, otherwise collapse [[♪ The bell ♪]] Make it even bigger. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u97	Thank you very much, Member. He's gonna answer the question... Oh, I'm sorry, Mr Gosievski has also come forward. I invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u98	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, All reforms that have been implemented in the Republic of Poland in the last four years have contributed to the enormous economic development of Poland. As a result, various social groups, residents, ordinary citizens, but mostly all local governments, have gained a lot. Local governments have benefited from this huge economic success. As members of the Committee on Public Finance, we are constantly getting information about the increased economic income of local governments, so I wanted to ask the Minister: Is it true that during these four years from this huge boom, development [[♪ The bell ♪]] economic Poland, local governments have benefited and have increased revenue by more than 20 billion PLN? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u99	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[What kind of lie is that? What costs?]] Mr President, please hold a discussion outside the plenary room or from the platform. Minister Tomasz Robaczyński will answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The reform of local government finances is a very complicated and sensitive subject. We are still in constant contact with local governments and are constantly consulting new solutions. It was created in cooperation with the World Bank a new system concerning the calculation of the expenditure side above all. These solutions, which have been proposed by the Ministry of Finance and the World Bank, are consulted with local governments. The second part of this reform is a profitable side when it comes to local governments. And this case is much more complicated. This is probably about changing the whole philosophy of thinking about self-governments, changing the philosophy of thinking about the income of self-government units. These works are being carried out at the Ministry of Finance all the time. In the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, as well as in the Joint Government and Local Government Commission's financial team, a joint decision was taken by the government and the local government on the need for a comprehensive regulation of local government finances, not just of the corrective and equalisation system. Such a common position was created on the need to continue comprehensive work. And this law only provides for the extension of this system of calculation of compensatory subsidies, correction and equalisation mechanisms for voivodships, because this reform certainly still requires a lot of time and consultation mainly with local authorities. As I say, such a common position has been adopted, a team will also be set up in agreement with the local government, consisting of experts also of the local government and government party, which will develop further comprehensive proposals. When it comes to what was raining in this Chamber, it is as if it is related to this, that is to say, the general situation of local governments, and not just to the corrective and equalisation system. The discussion with local governments has led to an agreement to develop a new concept together, because all these data that are presented by the government and by the government side are true, i.e. those data that speak of a certain loss in terms of the revenue of local governments due to their participation in PIT due to different government solutions, but it is also true that over the past years, due to both the economic prosperity and government activities, the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the National Tax Administration, concerning tax sealing of the income from participation in PIT and CIT of local governments have generally increased. That is what Mr Gosievski asked. Over the last 5 years, the shares have increased in the case of municipalities by about 9 billion PLN, in the case of powiats and PITs by 2.5 billion PLN, in the case of cities on the rights of the county over the last 5 years these shares have increased by nearly 9 billion PLN. [[And the cost?]] So it's not like local governments are actually losing out on these government solutions. And the system is constructed so that they are shares in universal taxes, in personal taxes and in corporate tax. By force, all government arrangements regarding these taxes will have an impact on local governments, because this is how a system of own income is constructed in local government units. Of course, I do not deny that it is necessary to work on this system and develop new solutions, but it is a comprehensive reform which will affect not only the finances of local government units, but also the revenue of the state budget. All this requires a truly comprehensive and calm approach to this reform. That is why we now present an extension of these solutions, which concerned voivodships, as regards the correction and equalisation system, in order to present a comprehensive solution concerning the income of local government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to warmly welcome the young people listening to our debate. At the invitation of Marshal Terletki we host teachers and students of the School of Sisters Presents from Krakow. Welcome. [[Applause]] I also welcome the gifted young people from the schools of the district of Wiełno, who came at the invitation of Mr Paweł Rychlik. I'm guessing she came to the exhibition, which she was about to show up at, uh, an hour. 12, it will be my pleasure to reveal in the name of your marshal. Welcome. [[Applause]] And now I invite Mr Andrzej Nobleta to the speaker. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u102	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear guests! Young Friends! We were just talking about local government finances. It is from the state budget that through subsidies funds are directed to local governments, to local governments for the functioning of Polish education. But with regard to the discussion that took place at this draft law, I wanted to thank all the clubs for their great commitment, because the problem of financing local governments is an important problem. Most parliamentarians have passed the local government road and the financial situation is not foreign to them, but, as the Minister said, through the economic growth that has been going on for over 3 years, through increased income from PIT and CIT tax, local governments have gained globally over PLN 20 billion. [[The cost is rising, too.]] The costs are also rising, but certainly there are also... [[Faster than income.]] ...that extra expenses. On the other hand, if there is a social expectation and there are economic, budgetary conditions and the government has reduced 25 million Poles' tax on individuals from 19% to 17%, I think that this is also appreciated by you. This tax reduction, of course, brings about a reduction in the revenues of local governments in this area, but by means of additional economic growth, local governments generally become beneficiaries of this growth. On the other hand, this amendment, which was tabled by the President on behalf of his club, according to the assessment of the Legislative Bureau, contained legal shortcomings and therefore the High Commission did not accept this amendment. In addition, it has specific financial implications for the budget. I think that the amendments that have been tabled today will be legislatively correct and we will consider them. We believe that the issue of self-financing is an open matter and I think that in the next term we will want to comprehensively resolve the financing of self-governments through participation in taxes. I just want to say that the growth rate has increased from 38.8% in the short term. up to 38.16% For example, for municipal authorities. This is only part of the percentage, but with large numbers it becomes a specific amount, which additionally affects local governments. I thank all the clubs for their activities on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u103	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u104	I would like to point out that the proposed amendment is another step in favour of local self-government and to make it easier for these individuals to act effectively. I would like to ask the Minister how in this context he evaluates the narrative of some opposition representatives who are trying to attribute to Law and Justice a negative attitude towards self-government and self-government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u105	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Coalition Polska I will present my position on the draft law on the income of local government units. First of all, I have to refer to the ideas of the PiS, the last ideas that are ridiculous. They come back like boomerang ideas, what we hear about the campaign, the division of Mazowsze, the uprising of the Central Pomeranian Voivodeship and the Częstochowa Voivodeship. How much longer? The division of the Mazowieckie voivodship into Warsaw and surroundings and all the rest is a stupid idea. It is an artificial separation of new voivodships only to conduct new self-government elections. And that's the point. You lost the election in the voivodship, and now you have an idea of how to override the will of the voters. The argument that the division will increase the resources obtained from the European Union is a lie, as there is now a statistical division, through which the funds flow to Mazowsze. I stress, on Mazowsze, not on Warsaw and everything else. A new statistical breakdown has been in force since January 2018. For EU calculations, the voivodship is treated as two NUTS 2: Warsaw capital and regional Mazowiecki. I would like to remind you that the Mazowsze authorities are seeking to ensure that the statistical breakdown in force is taken into account in the allocation of funds. There have been many appeals to the government and to all MEPs in Mazowieckie for support in these efforts. What's the effect? It's better not to say. You cannot artificially create voivodships just to create stools for your party colleagues. I'm moving on to the project. It concerns the extension for 2020 and 2021 of the Law on rules for establishing payments of voivodships to the State budget and the division of the regional part of the general subsidy. Apparently, the Ministry of Finance is working on a comprehensive reform of the so-called system. It's janosic. Apparently, because you can't see the effects, you're introducing a prosthetic for another two years. You introduce HR laws within 24 hours, you introduce education reform without proper consultation, you adopt additional expenditure for local governments, without providing compensation for them, and as far as the systemic solution to the problem is concerned - silence. At the last moment, you are introducing an extension of the current rules. You put everyone against the wall, both local governments and parliamentarians, because the failure to adopt your legislative prosthetics will result in financial paralysis of local governments. There will be no legal basis for establishing and making payments for the regional part of the general subsidy and for determining and paying this part of the subsidy to local governments of voivodships. Not only do you impose on local governments the financial consequences of your education deformity, you now threaten that the regional government will no longer be financed at all. You are lying to the public that you are increasing resources for the functioning of local governments, and the expenditure is increasing, as the representative of the Polish Cities Association informed the committee at the meeting. Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland will present its position in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u106	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws (prints 3762 and 3786). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Czech to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u107	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Young people! I have the honour and pleasure to present on behalf of the Health Committee the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws, this is print No. 3762. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Health Committee for first reading on 22 August. The Health Committee carried out the first reading of this project. It concerns, according to a broad justification, the introduction of provisions allowing the correct application of the Regulation of the European Commission, the number of that Regulation is 2016/161. The main solutions to this project are the identification of the supervisory powers of the chief pharmaceutical inspector, as well as management powers in relation to the established database system. These solutions clarify and complement the provisions of Regulation 2016/161 as regards the responsibilities of the different actors in the distribution chain of the medicinal product. The Health Committee discussed the various solutions of this project. Four amendments were tabled, all these amendments were rejected by the committee at the first reading stage. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt the draft law submitted without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u108	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club, is the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! The draft law amending the pharmaceutical law is intended to ensure the application of the regulation so-called. Delegated Commission of the European Union 2016, which complements the 2001 Directive. the European Parliament and the Council. This amendment sets out the new tasks and competences of the chief pharmaceutical inspector and the voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors to supervise the performance of the obligations set out in the Commission Regulation. These obligations are imposed on the so-called. Marketing authorisation holder - manufacturers or importers of medicinal products, suppliers of pharmaceutical wholesalers and retailers of medicinal products. Here are some examples of changes made to the project: it was possible for the MAH to decide on the packaging of the medicinal product to provide protection against opening the packaging of the product from outside the catalogue provided for by the Regulation, it was decided that the placing of safeguards to verify the authenticity and identification of the medicinal products is a responsibility of manufacturers or importers, that the new competence of the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector to supervise compliance by the MAH and other entities with data transmission and operations in the national system, etc. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of certain provisions. Four minority proposals were submitted during committee meetings. The PiS Club is currently reporting three amendments at second reading, two of which I will briefly discuss. The first one provides for a reduction in the maximum amount of the fine for public pharmacies, hospital pharmacies, pharmacies and hospital pharmacy departments. This will be a reduction of up to five times. This is the consequence of the discussion at the committee meeting. Amendment 3 provides for an extension of the vacathio legis for the provisions on the prohibition of sub-contracting provided for by the Delegated Regulation, which I mentioned at the beginning. The PiS Club will vote in favour of the project, along with, of course, the amendments that I am now, at second reading, handing over to your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u110	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Alicja Dąbrowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws, prints no. 3762 and 3786. The draft Law amending the Pharmaceutical Law and certain other laws is intended to ensure the application of the European Commission Delegated Regulation No 2016/161 of 2 October 2015, hereinafter referred to as the Regulation. The draft law is in line with EU law, while reservations are raised as to the level of penalties imposed on manufacturers of pharmacy, hospital pharmacy, pharmacies where the IT system in charge of the correct implementation of the regulation is still not 100% operational. For this reason, at the meeting of the Health Committee on 29 August, the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club, members of this club tabled four amendments. One amendment concerns the reduction of fines for pharmacies, hospital pharmacies, pharmacies up to 10,000. And here we thank you very much that the PiS Club with today's amendment as if it were able to support us, our amendment. I think the apothecaries will be happy, too. And yet our proposal in the next amendment is to extend the vacathio legis to 2 years so that the system can work really well. Civic Platform Club - The Civic Coalition will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u112	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition that I have the honour to present our position, our comments on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and some other laws. High Seym! What is the purpose of this bill? The contested law aims to apply the so-called regulation. Delegated Regulation (EU) No 2016/161 of the European Union of 2 October 2015 supplementing Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council by laying down detailed rules on safeguards on packaging of manufacturers, excuse me, medicinal products for human use. What are the rules set out in that Regulation 2016/161? Well, there's a whole series, eight points, but there's one. o: the characteristics and technical specifications of the unique identifier enabling verification of the authenticity of the medicinal product, the means of verifying the security features, the rules on the establishment and availability of the database system, the list of medicinal products and categories of products subject to prescription which do not contain safeguards, or the list of medicinal products and categories of products issued without prescription which contain safeguards, notification procedures and several more such terms to the European Commission. During the discussion, at the first reading of the Health Committee, a whole series of repeated comments were presented, inter alia. comments by the Chief Pharmacy Chamber on information systems and their compatibility and the penalties provided for on drug distributors. In general, we share those comments that were made during the discussion and we will vote in favour of amendments or minority proposals after this first reading. Government representatives -- I'm going to call it a little bit -- with nonchalance, they approached these important issues, bragging that from outsider we became the leader of computerization in pharmacies, perhaps even more widely -- in health care. I have some attention on the margins of the cases under discussion, but the government's approach was very similar at the time. Well, in the Lublin medical journal, Dr. Marek Derkacz signalled a problem that would soon appear, from the new year. This is how it is presented: it is estimated that every fourth doctor in Poland has already reached retirement age and can leave work day by day if he wishes. It is a fear to think what it would be like if such a decision were taken in solidarity with the beginning of next year. According to statistics, 11,000. Men and 23.5,000. Women practicing a doctor's profession could resign from work, close the doors of private offices and eventually go to deserved pensions, which makes the situation very complicated, maybe even dramatic, because another 7 thousand are approaching the retirement age limit in Poland. Men and 8,000. women practicing a doctor's profession. What's the reason? When we ask older colleagues if there is anything - you write Dr. Derkacz - which could cause them to give up their work day by day, we will hear that it has been announced for several years that doctors have been deprived of the right to write prescriptions in traditional paper form and force them to handle medical visits and medications in specialized computer programs. Well, in some countries the mandatory recipe is actually slowly becoming the present, but for some doctors so-called. The old date of its introduction is a major obstacle to work, which is always justified in the well-managed health systems that take care of the patient and his access to qualified medical staff. I hope that in this case, which I have raised here on behalf of the medical world, but also in this matter of drug security, reason will prevail. In general, given the safety of patients and the meaning of this regulation, we will vote in favour of this draft law, taking into account these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u114	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka, go after her. Mrs. Agnes isn't here. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Pharmaceutical Law and certain other laws. The aim of this project is to implement European Union law. The draft concerns the introduction of provisions allowing the correct application of Regulation 2016/161 of the European Commission. The project defines the competence of the chief pharmaceutical inspector and the voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors. One of the main tasks of the GIF set out in the novel is to control the compliance by manufacturers of the obligation to properly protect the packaging of medicines, preventing them from being falsified. However, most controversy has been raised by the amendment provisions concerning the introduction of fines, which will be imposed on entities failing to comply with the obligations set out in the EU Regulation, inter alia. the obligation to verify the authenticity of the medicine. My previous speaker at the Law and Justice Club resolved these doubts by making appropriate corrections. In my view, it is necessary to emphasise that we are obliged to implement the EU directive. I have no doubt that the new regulations that increase the safety of drug use, which hinder the practice of counterfeiting, are the direction in which we should go. These are activities for the benefit of better health, and as everyone, I hope, we know well, it should be the most important. The issue of falsely positive alerts, i.e. inducing an alert, even though the drug is not falsified, still requires work and adjustments during the meeting of the Health Committee. In view of the explanation made by the director of the Supervisory Department at the GIF. I do not think that this should be an obstacle to the adoption of the proposed rules. The system's efficiency is improving. So far, many errors have been eliminated from its functioning and the number of alerts generated is falling very much. Their current level, i.e. 0,5% , as recommended by the European Commission, we are obliged to abandon the stabilisation period. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I would add that I have no doubt that the work of employees and experts from the Ministry of Health, who have moved our country from the outsider position to the top of the countries in which the computerization of health care is advanced, deserves great recognition. Of course, there is still a lot of work in this area, but thank you very much for the hard work that has been done so far. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated bill together with the amendments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u116	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? I can't see. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please explain the following: How do you think implementation of this solution will affect the average price of medicines in Poland? Secondly, I would like to ask: Has the impact of the proposed solutions on the Polish drug industry been analysed?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u118	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the actions and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties during the period December 2007 to November 2015 (print No 3805). I would like to ask Mr Marcin Horala to present a report. A minute's break, because the Member is just going to the gym. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 48 hours 11 min 56]] I'm reopening the session. The Member has already arrived. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 9th agenda will be discussed in a later part of the session today, after the work of the committee has been completed. We continue to consider item 10 of the agenda. I would very much like to ask Mr Marcin Horala to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliament's Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of actions and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties in the period from December 2007 to November 2015. This report is a thick book with almost 500 pages, so I'll be able to only signal its main threads. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very sad book. It is a book describing the history of how elites, how the power ruling Poland tragically failed Poles, in a tragic way failed to fulfil its responsibilities, and the Polish state in an extremely important area, which is the collection of danin, was defeated. Since ancient times, these were basic elements of the state: territory, monopoly on violence, ability to collect tributes from this territory. The Polish State in this period examined by the committee from this elementary, basic, state-constituted obligation was not able to fulfil itself. There are numerous reports about it - they said at that time, which is extremely important, which should not be a surprise to anyone, this knowledge was universal - reports from the European Commission prepared for the European Commission by various independent institutions, reports from Polish analytical organizations, after the time also of the Polish Ministry of Finance, because during the period under consideration the Ministry of Finance of this phenomenon did not investigate and was largely unaware of it, at least at the official level, although as I say, all the reasons for being aware of the contracts were. At a time when this scale of fraud, tax fraud and other factors affecting the expansion of the VAT gap increased, i.e. the difference between what should affect the budget and what actually affected it, this phenomenon had a few hundred percent scale, increased by several hundred percent. This gap at the beginning, in 2007, has been very low since the beginning of the period considered, one of the lowest in Europe, about 8% According to estimates, in a few years it reached a level of 25 So it's one of the record ones in Europe. There were several European countries where there was a larger gap or a similar level, but they were countries where this was due to such structural, long-term reasons and where it did not change much. Poland is the only phenomenon where the calendar of increase of fraud, increase of fraud, increase of VAT gap so simply overlapped on the calendar of who was in power. Because power then, as I said before, in a catastrophic way did not even fulfil its responsibilities. We have identified a number of actions that were being undertaken at the time, which led to the fragmentation of the tax system, which led to an increase in this leakage from the state budget. These few activities, which can be classified as somehow sealing, were always extremely late, for years late, very fragmented. And it was very often the case that when one gate, one gap was closed even a little bit, it was sometimes opened in the same act. Finally, the state's capacity to prosecute economic crimes, organised economic crime in general, and this in particular referred to VAT fraud, has been dismantled and at least seriously weakened. Because one thing has to be said: this is not about the fact that someone does not pay the tax, that someone produces, trades, conducts business, should pay some tax, but does not pay it. No. The worst thing about this phenomenon was that there were organized criminal groups who were stealing money from the state budget, which did not carry out any economic activity or was only such a covert, fictional character, mainly about falsifying documents creating a fictional economic turnover, in order to finally extort, i.e. stealing live cash from the state budget. Just as an example of such sealing activities, it is a matter of introducing the right to quarterly clearing for newly registered entities. So the newly registered entity in the VAT carousel on the so-called. It was not until after a quarter that the pole had to submit any report for the first time, that it appeared in the field of vision of the tax authorities. Of course, it's natural to be late sometimes, calls to fill in. Really, the check came in after 5 and 6 months. It's enough time for the VAT carousel to extort tens of millions of zlotys, transfer. And in the end, the proverbial pillar, the homeless, was caught without wealth. The organizers of this carousel remained unpunished, during which time they had already registered further companies, further entities, extorted further tens of millions of PLN. Another example of this kind of fragmentation is the abolition of the obligation to lodge security in import procedures, contrary to the clear position of the Department of Taxation from Goods and Services in the Ministry of Finance, where the head of the department stated unambiguously - this note of the commission was preserved, the committee reached it - that this change posed a serious risk of increased crime, increased extortion. However, after a personal intervention by Vice Minister Kapica, these security features were abolished and it was not ensured that alternative, other effective safeguards were put in place. The result was that in this section, i.e. in the area of tax collected by customs, the revenue to the budget for 4 years decreased by PLN 18 billion. Another example of such fragmentation is the introduction of a reverse VAT obligation for foreign operators. What else is reversed VAT in particular commodity groups. It's also a very controversial move, but quality, at least by some experts qualified as a sealing system... The introduction of an entity for foreign entities, registered abroad, led to the fact that, in this course of economic trade, where VAT is still being charged, compensated, cleared, there was a moment when an entity would not charge it, and therefore there was an additional right to reimbursement and an additional moment where a disappearing taxpayer could appear. Returns paid by the Tax Office Warsaw-Śródmieście II to such entities for one year increased twice, from PLN 5 to PLN 10 billion. These are examples of defrosting activities. Now the delays in sealing. The main actions that are presented as sealing the tax system in the years examined are the introduction of reversed VAT on individual goods. It is a very controversial instrument in itself. On a budget scale, however, what did he lead to? You could say nothing, I mean. year after year, the scale of extortion grew. It can be classified as helping the industry somehow. Entrepreneurs in a given industry were breathing with relief, because fraudsters, the mafia were pushed out of the industry, but it was pushed into other industries simply and the scale of fraud on the scale of the entire budget was still growing. Little was done so slowly, with years of delay, that for years they were still able to extort in a given criminal commodity, and then move on to another commodity. In the documents of the committee, in the documents examined, we have entire litas, entire series, dozens of letters from entrepreneurs, industry organizations to all possible institutions, with the Ministry of Finance at the head, including the Prime Minister, including law enforcement authorities. These industry organizations have shown in black and white what is the plague of extortion in their industries. Like I said, it took years to react. Just as an example, the first reversed VAT on scrap metal - already in 2009 was the law in the finance department, and it was not implemented until 2011. And yet, which is also significant for these pseudo-automating activities, it forgot to take into account the legal definition of scrap metal, which made it necessary to slightly change the name of the product on the invoice so that it could continue in an undistorted way. Fuels, hot stuff lately. As we know, on average 600 tanks with illegal fuel entered Poland annually. [[Voice from the room: I wonder where?]] Losses are over 20 million PLN per day for the budget. Until 2013, there were no activities, not even attempts to seal the fuel trading. In 2013, joint and several liability was introduced, but with a guarantee released from this liability. All you had to do was pay 200,000. initially to relieve yourself of this responsibility, when tens of millions could be extorted. As the Tax Law Consultative Council concluded, this was treated as a licence for extortion. Criminal groups, by bailing out, still believed in their activities. The more effective they could be in extortion. And, little of that, it was found that there was even time for this bail to be recovered and paid before the tax authorities reacted. After a year, a concession was introduced for the foreign trade of fuels - 10 million securities, already a serious amount, although of course the profits from this activity were also higher. But what did it turn out to be? It has been forgotten to introduce an obligation for the customs warehousekeeper to verify that the contractor has such a licence. So theoretically, there was a concession, but as if it weren't and you didn't need to have it to spin. And when this obligation was introduced, it was a trilateral clearing mechanism, a foreign concession, the concession could have owned and could trade fuel for an entity that was not a VAT taxable person under Polish regulations, so as irregularities were found, it is not possible again. It was that bail he took. It was not enough, it was not losing its status, it was enough to register another pillar in Poland to continue carrying out criminal activities to continue extorting billions of zlotys. That's what I'm saying in an extremely cursive way as an example. The report describes many more of these goods, such as electronics diagnosed with a control already coordinated in 2009 as an area of particular fraud. In 2010, the common position of several departments of the Ministry of Finance, the Department of Revenue Control, and above all the Department of Tax Intelligence, which said that legislative changes are needed to seal the trade in this commodity. So? Nothing. The year passes, two years, three years, in 2013 Deputy Minister Maciej G. - that's what I have to say, because that's exactly what he got the prosecutor's charges - his personal decision - the committee reached the document with a handwritten annotation - he still deletes electronic products from the sealing bill. It is only in 2015 that there is some kind of sealing in this commodity, and the losses due only to this one group of goods are estimated at over PLN 2 billion per year for the state budget. We had such a situation in Poland that here we had cell phones in official statistics magically multiplied. In the absence of production and certain imports to Poland, they left Poland much more. It was no longer necessary to conduct any detective activities, just to look at the official statistics of imports and exports of this product from Poland. So that's how it was with these sealing actions, or rather pseudo-closing actions. There is also mention here of a single control file, that is an argument for sealing the tax system during the period considered. Suffice it to say that it was adopted in September 2015, so that it took 7 years and 10 months, according to standards recommended by the OECD in 2005. In Portugal it was implemented in 2008. So it could be said that there was at least a 7-year delay, but there was little delay, that this was done without the absolutely key functionality of automatic reporting, which allows for the conduct of analytics by tax authorities. So it was stripped of seal, you can say: it was without seal. Finally, dismantle the state's ability to prosecute economic crime, so-called. pseudoreform of the prosecutor's office breaking up the National Public Prosecutor's Office, eliminating local troops, eliminating the possibility of issuing binding orders on procedural capacity. This caused the break-up of the regional prosecutor's office, that in such complex carousel criminal schemes, when dozens of companies are registered, when this turnover intersects across the country, each of the regional prosecutors touched a fragment, could catch a pole from which it could not be recovered, and the whole criminal group simply registered another company elsewhere and carried out its activities in the best. We're talking about disarming special forces, dismantleing the State's Department of Economic Interests at the ABW, linking it to terrorism and counter-intelligence. As you know, these are very related areas, and this certainly helped very much officers who did not specialize in combating economic crime. As confirmed by the statement, the CBA Prime Minister's annual guidelines lacked an indication of the crime of extortion of VAT as a priority direction for the CBA throughout the 8 years examined. Even at the end of the period considered, still in 2015, an initiative to seal the tax system was created in the finance department. The VAT department sent letters to other cells of the Ministry of Finance, to the tax chambers where it is written that the findings of the tax check are alarming, there are multi-billion-dollar extortion, let's prepare something, let's do something to seal the tax system. Such a study is being prepared, there are indicated actions that can be carried out quickly, there are indicated long-term, very good ones, most of them implemented after 2015, but the personal decision of Minister Szczurek is blocked, the committee has reached material evidence, a note in which it is written that it is the decision of the Minister not to carry out this seal. At the end of February 2015, when the case was probably already known not only to anyone who had any idea about public finances, but also to the general public in Poland, then it was decided directly not to seal the tax system. Expansive confiscation, that is, the possibility of taking possession of assets to criminals. Draft group of Members of the Law and Justice in 2008 - blocked. The issue of criminal liability. This extremely profitable criminal activity, sometimes bringing tens of millions of zlotys of profit, hundreds of millions, on the scale of the entire state budget, resulting in billions of losses as a result of a series of actions, the failure to include VAT crimes in the Penal Code, the curial judgments of the Supreme Court, which were still popularized in the prosecutor's office, was actually at risk of imprisonment suspended or fined. What is the threat of such punishment that he will be sentenced to two years suspended, for someone who earns money from criminal activity, for example. 50 million PLN or 100 million PLN? In 2013 and 2015, more than 200 people who were legally convicted of crimes related to VAT fraud barely received any penalty of absolute imprisonment, went to prison in colloquial terms. Others, coming out of court, could already create more pillars and more carousel schemes and extort more tens of millions of zlotys. The question is simple: Is anyone responsible? Firstly, a number of ministers and vice-ministers on whom the committee has notified that the offence has been committed, that the obligation has not been fulfilled, that the property entrusted has been damaged, but also that of persons constitutionally responsible for the internal security of the State, for the protection of the interests of the Treasury, the Presidents of the Council of Ministers, the Constitutional Ministers responsible [[♪ The bell ♪]] for public finances. Therefore, the committee recommends that, in view of this scale of economic security breach, the High Chamber should bring these persons before the Court of State. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u120	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. 19c paragraph. No amendments shall be tabled to the report of the committee of inquiry during its examination by the Sejm. And you will be the first to speak by Mr Jan Szewczak, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u121	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In setting up a committee of inquiry for: VAT fraud, such a contractual name here let's accept It was neither political revenge nor even the size of this VAT gap. It's about elementary justice, it's about not triumphing with impunity and not condoning villains so that in broad daylight the Polish budget and wallets of Polish taxpayers cannot be robbed. The idea is not to treat irresponsiblely the most important public functions, even the role of prime minister or finance minister, so as not to squander public pennies and financially support various kinds of mafias. Ladies and gentlemen, what for decent and competent people is a cause for embarrassment and embarrassment, for numerous PO-PSL government officers questioned by the Committee of Investigation, has become a reason to talk, to be satisfied, even to jokes, as evidenced by numerous hearings - e.g. Minister Nowak, Minister Gras, Minister Rostowski, Deputy Minister Parafianovich and Vice Minister Grabowski. Conversely, when witnesses tried to be truthful and competent, their testimony became a cause for attack, slander, slander. This was the case with Prof. Modzelewski, Prof. Elizabeth Chojna-Ghost or the head of customs of Mr. Sławomir Grey, who undoubtedly demonstrated their civil courage by giving testimony. Ladies and gentlemen, there is little in the contemporary economic history of Europe, Europe of times of peace, financial and tax robbery on a similar scale as in the case of VAT fraud and tax fraud in the years 2007 to 2015 during the time of the PO-PSL government, initially estimated at PLN 250 and 260 billion. And this is not all that international, cosmopolitan gangs and national mafias sucked out of the Polish budget and financial system. Although all these other aspects of the Commission of Investigation have not been investigated in such detail, it is certainly possible to include in this account the damage and financial robbery of PLN 100.150 billion of fraud in the area of unpaid CIT, CIT fraud... [[Or 5,000.?]] ...unpaid proceeds from gambling tax or extremely thoughtless and sub-value privatization. After all, it was you, the state, representatives of the total opposition, for years that made the Polish state not only a theoretical state, but also a completely defenseless state, and the power and institutions of the state - helpless and turning a blind eye to fiscal conquest and demolition. Anyone who wanted to just put their hand in the Polish budget and pulled out what they wanted. It was the committee of inquiry that proved it impeccably. Thanks to the media of obscure current, you have raised a large volume due to dead squirrels, wild boars, barkers, but in the case of extortion of PLN 250 billion only for VAT you are still trying to convince Poles that nothing happened. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a mockery of human intelligence and intelligence. It can be regarded as completely cabaret-like that the PO-PSL government is assigning itself the merits of tax sealing. Do you remember the 2011 Civic Platform electoral slogan? Stable economy and secure finance. So? Of course, 50 billion less in the budget. [[There's never been less in the budget.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that countries from the Civic Platform and the PSL can irritate that we are going to elections with another slogan, with the slogan: Poland country of prosperity. I understand you're concerned that minimum wages are rising. Your leading economic expert says that they grow too fast, that the increase in wages for Poles by 300 PLN or 400 PLN is a drama for economy and finance... [[Not about that.]] [[Don't lie to me!]] ...and you have not seen any drama when the VAT mafia only robbed the Polish state and Poles themselves of 64 billion PLN during your reign, these 8 years. How much could the wages of Poles be raised today? Not 300 zlotys and not 400 zlotys. If it weren't for the 250 billion, and in fact, up to 400 billion, because you have to add lost excise revenue, you could raise it not by 300 zlotys, but by 3,000. zł. That would be enough for that. You are surprised, you cannot understand why your governments in the Treasury companies, e.g. In a leading company such as Orlen SA, the profit for 8 years of your government was PLN 2.9 billion, and after less than 4 years of government the PiS could reach PLN 22 or even PLN 23 billion. You think it has nothing to do with... [[What was the price of the fuel?]] Mrs Skowrońska, do you think this has nothing to do with VAT and excise mafias? Unfortunately, fuel smuggling is of great importance. This is not just the civilizational difference between President Krawce and President Obajtek in the way of management. This is the impact of these significant tax frauds. With little exception, ladies and gentlemen, the witnesses of the committee of inquiry were characterized by a cry: I do not find it in my memory. But I wanted to quote the shocking hearing of the head of customs of Sławomir Grey, so shocking that the opposition representatives in the committee of inquiry left the room while giving this speech. Interrogations of the head of the customs union listened like a real thriller from the criminal world. Absolute horror movies could be filmed. I quote what the witness said: We have alerted them to the fact that they are people who, on behalf of organized crime, influence the formation of regulations and prevent the operation of control services. The letters in this case were received by Donald Tusk and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. He said that x-rays of tir were not working, that in the best lasted giant fuel smuggling, that tanks were tested with a stick, if they were studied at all, that whole truck of dry tobacco without excise duty for almost 2 years were entering, driving directly to illegal cigarette factories, that it was at least PLN 7 billion a year, that the ministers of the government of PO-PSL, including Minister Kapica, were interested in sealing VAT but were not interested in sealing VAT, that consciously the Ministry of Finance and Customs directed controls at festivals of pierog and tinctures and for events of the circles of rural hostess. [[Now they go to weddings.]] Were former godfathers of this unprecedented operation of robbing Polish wallets, Polish budget? Yeah, they were. These were undoubtedly Prime Ministers of the PO-PSL Governments: Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, Finance Ministers: Minister Jan Vincent-Rostowski and Minister Szczurek, as well as Vice-Ministers who have already made certain prosecutorial allegations. And it was the committee of inquiry who confirmed that, in their testimony, the ministers and vice-ministers themselves. If you would literally take the statement of the head of the customs union, i.e. Mr. Grey, before the committee of inquiry, it should be considered that public officials even supported or allowed these shameful acts. The provisions introduced in prima aprilis, i.e. could prove this. On 1 April 2011, which allowed the tax to be refunded even to those who had spent all their vacations in the Caribbean without entering, without exporting, without even playing with documents. Despite hundreds of appeals from different backgrounds, nothing relevant has been done. On the contrary, those people who wanted to stop the robbery of Polish money were blocked and harassed. Why would the international mafia rob the budgets of France, Germany and Italy, how could they quietly cut to the naked skin the Polish budget? This isn't any economic change, ladies and gentlemen. You had VAT revenues of PLN 100 or 120 billion, and the government of Law and Justice has PLN 180 or PLN 200 billion. This is due to a solid and still unfinished war with the VAT mobs. And this committee of inquiry, interrogating other witnesses, mostly amnesiac, irresponsible for nothing, incompetent to pain, such as Minister Nowak, Minister Rostowski, perfectly illustrated in her report. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a well-made job, a fine job for the representatives of the United Right camp. That's probably why the finance minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u122	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u123	Yeah, I'm almost done. Last two sentences, Marshal. ... Rostowski certainly said in his time that there is no money and there will be no money. He knew how this VAT system works. We have another motto: money is and money will be for Poles, and not for thieving mobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: From the pockets of Poles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u124	Please, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Indeed, money will be for Poles. We'll take care of the SKOKs someday. [[Applause]] Then you'll be on the other hand at the committee meeting explaining how it was with these SKOKs why a few billion had to be paid out by the Banking Guarantee Fund to the SKOK customers, why it was the Platform Government and PSL that protected the SKOK customers by extending the control of the Banking Guarantee Fund and the KNF by the SKOKs themselves, and why you've been blocking it for so many years. There's gonna be an investigation committee about that, too, and you're not gonna get away with it. [[Applause]] [[That's not a chance.]] You wanted to bring honest businessmen into line with criminals. Do you know why? If you read more, you also followed a little bit of what the President himself said many times... Luka's not clear about crime. The gap is also made up of honest entrepreneurs who apply legal tax optimization. You criminals called honest entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] That's how you treat people who run their business, take risks, pay taxes. You called them criminals, you compared them to those who extorted VAT. Mr President said it was a sad book. But I don't remember the PiS Members crying when they voted against sealing the tax system when the Civic Platform made a number of changes. When they did not support these solutions, I saw no crying, and today we are talking about a sad book. [[Applause]] You were talking to the president about electronics. The issue of electronics, we've talked about this many times, it's in committee documents, it's examined the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, which hasn't been able to confirm the same ones you're giving. The prosecutor from Bialystok, who was investigating VAT after the CBA found nothing, actually ordered further activities from the Internal Security Agency. Look, you'll find it. One former employee of Silver found nothing, Beida, so maybe Pogonowski will find something for the Platform and PSL government. And yet you, Mr President, have not passed the law on the committee of inquiry. The law makes it clear that at the meeting of the Sejm, the report of the committee of inquiry is presented by the rapporteur elected from its composition, who objectively presents the position of the committee and the separate opinions contained in the report. You did not mention a separate sentence, which was reported by three Members: Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Mr Mirosław Pampuch and my humble person, who is at least volume equivalent. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] I understand that you don't have to agree with your arguments, but honesty and the bill obliged you to mention it as well. The original sin of this committee of inquiry: only 8 years, and the problem existed earlier and exists today. According to fiscal control in 2006, the VAT gap was higher than in 2007, 2008, 2009 or 2010. According to PwC, the VAT gap was 90 billion between 2016 and 2017. At the moment, if we look at the latest data that are coming to us, the rate of VAT impact is lower than the rate of consumption and gross domestic product. It shows that these relationships are not correct. In a few moments you will be explaining the procyclicality that you strongly rejected when the expert of the committee of Professor Bratkowski was created, saying no less, no more about the fact that during strong economic growth, VAT revenues are increasing in comparison with this economic growth clearly faster and, at a time of lower growth, falling significantly. [[Applause]] You said that no one confirms that no country in the world confirms procyclicality. There is the first country, I would like to tell you, its name is Poland. Development of April 2019, which was established in the Ministry of Finance. And there is one to one what Bratkowski says in his study about procyclicality. [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Bravo!]] There is a parliament resolution that says that the committee should examine the activities of the Heads of Service. There are appointed Heads of Service to be examined by the committee. The head of CBA Mariusz Kaminski is also mentioned there. His successor, Paweł Wojtunik, who was the head of the CBA for 6 years, was interrogated by the committee, and Mariusz Kaminski, who was the head of the CBA for 2 years during a period that examined the committee, even though he was voted as a witness, was not summoned by you and then, at your request, was removed from the witness list. It shows that they're equal and equal. You just treated the PiS-owska majority on the committee, the vice-president of your party Mr Mariusz Kaminski. I understand that you were afraid that he would not be able to boast of any action on this matter, as well as the potential quality of his testimony. This is what my esteemed previous speaker, some great rank of testimony in front of the former minister, Deputy Minister Elizabeth Chojny-Guch, was just talking about. Only the same Minister - we have this and in her testimony, we have this and in the committee's documents - has repeatedly denied herself, straightened out these denials, and later corrected the contradictions also straightened out. A whole bunch of half-truths and to put it straight: the lies that Chojna-Ghost made. For example, with regard to her role in the abolition of the so-called. sanctions of 30%. After all, on several documents there is a manual annotation: I accept Elizabeth Chojna-Ghost, and she presented herself as the one who defended and opposed the abolition of sanctions of 30%. The Commission did not want to deal with the role of PiS politicians in abolishing the 30% sanctions. After all, this government project abolishing the penalty of 30% he was in the 2005-2007 term of office. Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński was the company of this project, he did not withdraw it from the Sejm. It was a project by Professor Zyta Gilowska. Later in the Seym of the next term of office, 2007 and 2011, there was also a project of PiS-owski abolishing a 30% sanction. And then everyone in the plenary room, like one husband, voted unanimously in favour of lifting the 30% sanctions, and today this is the charge that we have put in place a solution together with you, [[Applause]] That's what you've been looking for. More like that. You say that the solutions, and that's also in the report, were too late introduced. These are examples of 2011, 2013 or 2015. It just so happens that most of these actions were not supported. First reversed VAT in 2011 - PiS does not support. Today we are criticized by the fact that we were too late and that this solution should have been introduced earlier. 2013 - e.g. reversed VAT on steel rods. Referring to the opinion of your member of the programme council, Professor Modzelewski, at the meeting of the finance committee you are using obstruction and trying to delay the implementation of this solution. Finally, if you are already voting in the Sejm, you are abstaining, and you do not support this solution either. Whose business were you in then? The state budget or the VAT mob? We need to be clear about this. [[Applause]] It was in the interest of the VAT mob to delay this solution, which you proposed. Representatives of the industry who attended the meetings of our committee have repeatedly said that this solution has put an end to the problem overnight. You were against it then. Rostowski's testimony, which is in the wrong version quoted in the report. I was talking about it at the committee meeting. Minister Rostowski made it clear that the abolition of the 30% sanctions did not contribute to the widening of the gap either in 2008 or in 2009. There is an exact quote from his statement, and you wrote it in the report: He also pointed out that the decrease in VAT revenue compared to expected in 2008 was caused by the elimination of so-called 30% sanctions. That's not true. It's just not true. Minister Rostowski didn't say that. And it is a symbol that the first politician detained for VAT is, we know, because we are both from Pomerania, even from the same district we start, Przemysław M., a PiS activist, a former member of Lotus Board. First held VAT policy [[Applause]] in Poland - Przemysław M. from PiS. Unfortunately, this report is only on political order. And just as we've been dealing with something called the Smolensk lie over the years, so unfortunately we've been dealing with something called the VAT lie for four years during your term of office. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u126	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Here, in the Horala report, there are only half-truths and even lies. It is not that the Department for the Protection of the Economic Interests of the State in the ABW has been wound up, sir, [[Applause]] only reformed and merged into a single department, while under the rule of law and justice you have eliminated 10 ABW delegations in the country. There's only six left. That's why the A.M.A.W. was being liquidated, reformed so that they could effectively prosecute criminals, including VAT criminals. On the other hand, you also refused to allow Mr. Kaminski, CBA's boss, to question you. And the CBA in its competence had a clear concern for the economic interests of the State Treasury. Maybe he'd say how he fought with the VAT mobs in 2008-2009, which he put in place, which was an effective head of the CBA. I think that his activities are only related to political activity, not to the actual action related to the reduction of crime, including the economic crime of the state. The VAT Commission really wasted the whole year instead of acting, looking for reasons for the creation of the VAT gap and thus objective the criteria in order to prevent various types of fraud in the future, it focused only on a certain political war. The main slogan was: to get Tusk and not through any arguments, but by trying to vaguely show the state of the VAT gap. Because the VAT gap, already mentioned, is not only VAT crimes, it is a very wide complex. This VAT-owska gap currently also exists and this is 119 billion for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. If we'd let PiS rule for eight years, this ripping off the state budget wouldn't have been the same as on public television stripes, 250 billion, only 320 billion... [[♪ The bell ♪]] - 320 billion. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, there isn't much time, but summing up. We have lost a truly unique opportunity to create a report of this kind, which would help to improve the situation of both entrepreneurs and all Poles, but we have only focused on political warfare. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u128	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u129	The report submitted to the High House is by only part of the members of the committee of inquiry appointed, three members of the committee have submitted a separate opinion to the report. Most of the committees, Members of Law and Justice, did not want to find out what the problem was, where they were and are being made, so as to eliminate them in future settlements. It was fundamental and fundamental that only the period of the PO-PSL regime, i.e. the time from December 2007 to November 2015, was examined, which prejudiced the purpose of the committee. The work carried out by the committee confirmed that the objective of the action was not to examine the matter in depth, but merely to create conditions for political prosecution, with public media being used for this purpose. The work in the committee confirmed that the rulers, Law and Justice, are absolutely unbelievable, dishonest and really do not care about Poland, about millions of Poles, but only about lying about reality. The majority of the committees, i.e. the five members of the Law and Justice, rejected all the uncomfortable questions in the vote, and it was therefore impossible to compare the issues that were unfavourable to the PiS beyond the period under examination. The report submitted and the report submitted to the committee give a false picture of the situation concerning VAT and excise duties. The basic mistake is that the committee was based almost exclusively on the calculation of VAT luce. After all, VAT Luka-owska is only an estimate, a calculation, not a real value. The calculation of the VAT gap is based on different assumptions and methods, which makes the results incomparable here, while the estimates of the value of the VAT gap themselves are questionable. This issue has been highlighted by many witnesses who testify before the committee as well as by experts working on the committee. The VAT gap was and is an excellent tool for the current rulers to manipulate, compare incomparable things. Even the term "VAT-owska" was replaced with the word "grabbing" and it was reproduced in the PiS media, [[Applause]] which suggests explicitly that the VAT gap is only fraud and theft. Knowing even a little bit of this issue, they know very well that it is a common, perfidious fraud, but the reproduction of it by many times confirms the Poles in this lie. Today, based on such imprecise terms, accusations are made, and it is the responsibility of the rulers during this exclusively imposed period. Why aren't these allegations based on hard data that doesn't allow manipulation? After all, such an indicator can be the ratio of VAT income to added value in the economy or to GDP. As these indicators have developed, we raise in detail in a separate sentence to the committee's report. These indicators do not lead to any sensational differences which can create a manipulated, imaginary calculation gap of VAT-owska. During the period considered, the indicators based on hard data generally do not differ from the average over a longer period. I'm not going to quote these values here because they're fleeting. Details are given in a separate sentence. I would also like to draw your attention to the selective nature of the choice of witnesses. The basis of the report is the statements of people who often had illusory knowledge about VAT fraud, but for example. columnists of the Polish Gazeta or direct paid advisers of Law and Justice. Despite repeated appeals from Members of the opposition, Mr Mariusz Kaminski's head of the CBA could not be questioned. His role, especially with regard to the initial period after Poland's entry into the Schengen area in December 2007, would be significant. Mr Kaminski then managed a very important service in the state security system, and later, in 2016 and 2017, under the government of PiS and Mariusz Kaminski, 11 ABW delegations were liquidated, including the Rzeszow delegation, which had great merits in the fight against VAT-related crime. According to many witnesses, the introduction of the Schengen area, the elimination of internal borders in the European Union has resulted in a sharp increase in tax crime. The PiS government has not prepared the country in any way for this free movement of goods without control and monitoring, and today you are showing the tank of shame. In fact, consider whether you have any part in this or whether these tanks are yours. [[Applause]] It is the Law and Justice that has prepared no solutions, no safeguards, so that these oil tankers cannot run freely across the border. You didn't see that? Don't you see that? Let us also remember that during the period considered, the economic situation in the world was extremely difficult, different from that of the current economic situation. And finally, the rulers are bragging today that they've narrowed the VAT gap and told their prominent politicians that they've taken money from thieves and gave it to their children. I must say that there was also a reaction at the committee of inquiry. After Mr Morawiecki's speech in Sandomierz, when before the local elections he preached how the Law and Justice took away the thieves and gave the children, we proposed to submit to the committee a list of these thieves. [[Applause]] We all have security clearance, so there was nothing to hide. Unfortunately, we've been voted out. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no such list, and Poles would like to meet these thieves, maybe they are in their city, the county, the voivodship. I will personally admit that I know a law and justice activist who has fled abroad and is now seeking political asylum. [[Applause]] [[In Germany, to make it interesting.]] [[Voice from the room: True.]] The most important changes, thanks to which the Government of Law and Justice can boast of sealing the tax system, were, of course, introduced even during the time of the PO-PSL government. [[Applause]] The most important is the computerization of information processes, the creation of a Data Processing Centre in Radom, the implementation of a single control file. But in 2015, when this solution was introduced, the Members of the Law and Justice did not support it. And on many occasions, when creating VAT law, they acted destructively both during the debate, delaying the introduction of certain favourable solutions and in voting without supporting them. We described this in detail in a separate sentence. I also wanted to thank the experts: Professor Waiting, Professor Bratkowski and Counsel Bartosz Grzędzie, for their substantial support in this work of the committee. To conclude, I find that the work of the committee does not have a tangible effect, as my predecessors have already said. We wasted a year on political push-ups, because that's all you can call it. The report and the report are biased, they do not answer the question of what needs to be done to close the VAT gap, which is still very large, but we could no longer talk about it and we could not compare it. The report and the report are purely political propaganda of the current rulers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u130	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 proposed to set up a VAT investigation committee almost two years ago. Unfortunately, then Law and Justice rejected it and after a few months presented their similar project. It's not the first time. Working in the Sejm for Poland, we have experienced several times similar situations, among others. Direct sales are our project, it was rejected, after six months accepted and presented by Law and Justice, similarly cameras for police or VAT reduction. But, of course, we welcome the implementation of these projects, which is why we have always voted for them, but the problem is that these projects have entered into force lately, as has the creation of a VAT commission. It was almost a year, or at least a few months later, which also caused us to question fewer witnesses through these political decisions. And, as we know, the interrogation was around 70, an average audition lasted about seven hours, so together it was a few hundred hours of interrogation. I think we could make it to a thousand if we had more time. High Izbo! The Civic Platform, which supervised it itself, has a strong responsibility for tardiness in the Ministry of Finance. As we could find out during the hearings, the coalition agreement with PSL did not allow the supervision of the finance minister, the financial administration of anyone other than the finance minister and the Prime Minister of the Civic Platform. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Please...]] Therefore, this report and this evaluation mainly concern the Civic Platform, which... [[Voice from the room: PSL wasn't like that.]] ...decided what was going on at the Ministry of Finance and what couldn't be happening at the Ministry of Finance. Problem... [[I heard you interrogating Pawlak. I heard you interrogating Pawlak, but then you weren't running from PSL.]] Is your marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u132	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u133	As I recall, the Ministry of Finance was under the rule of the Civic Platform. The problem of VAT fraud has existed since the appointment... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u134	You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to remain calm. [[Voice from the room: But please calm down.]] [[But we're taking on everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u135	Good. Good. The problem of VAT fraud has existed since the creation of this tax. Its scale decreased as it progressed - sometimes it was bigger, sometimes smaller, but in fact these years 2012 and 2015 were the years of the biggest fraud and the VAT gap sometimes reached almost 30% of VAT revenue. It was not without importance to raise the tax rate from 22% to 23% - for customers it was just a 1% increase, but for criminals an increase in income by about 5% on the same invoice turnover. We have learned from witnesses that during the preparation for the tax increase no risk analysis was carried out concerning the increase in the base rate in the absence of additional sealing of the system. Interrogation of Mr. Sławomir Grey, president of the customs union, probably caused the greatest horror... [[But the PiS state fired him.]] ...so let me now quote some of his statements: we had a stick instead of equipment. Transports aroused suspicion, but they couldn't be controlled. They grabbed the fences because those were the guidelines. They were harassed by their superiors for reporting irregularities. The ministers did not respond to the signals of the customs chambers. Officials of the Ministry of Finance helped in the trade of alcohol. Procedures have been developed to facilitate smuggling. Officers have been promoted for exemplary service in the grey area. Huge amounts have expired through gaps in ZEFIR's IT systems2. Small PR activities were conducted instead of fighting the mob. Incomprehensible excise duty increases. The gray area could have developed easily for many years. Fiction of monitoring and fuel control. As many as 600 fuel tanks per day carried illegal fuel. Stopping a tanker is a death sentence, just problems. That's why we all lost ok. 200 billion zlotys a year. Mr Sławomir Siwa also added that it is a little better now, but many of these pathologies still exist today, and customsmen are afraid to talk about irregularities because the Ministry of Finance is largely working the same people all the time. The mountain has changed, but it's not enough. Another frightening phenomenon was the treatment of companies that almost went bankrupt. It was possible that the Ministry of Finance did not respond to dozens of letters from specific industries with requests for sealing. This led to the fact that entrepreneurs had to order reports and pay for them to outside companies. The consultancy companies were able to present accurate calculations of the losses to the industry in a few months. With such a prepared report, representatives of companies went to the Ministry of Finance, threw a report on the desk and asked for changes to reduce fraud. After all, it is the Ministry of Finance, with tax offices and tax authorities, that should alarm entrepreneurs, not the other way around. This is, I think, a definite pathology. If that was the case, it was just a drama. During the hearings, there was a pattern. The people responsible for writing the law claimed that the first thing to do was to pursue criminals, not change the law. Those responsible for prosecuting criminals said that first we need to change the law and then we need to pursue the criminals. Therefore, as can be guessed, neither one nor the other did their best, seemingly counting on the other. Between 2008 and 2009, MSWiA prepared for a government strategy to combat organised crime, as evidenced by numerous notes and letters collected in this department. In accordance with the agreed timetable described in the service memo of the Ministry of Public Security of 9 December 2008, the establishment of a strategy to combat organised crime was to guarantee the resolution of the Council of Ministers. Finally, on the basis of the collected materials, a report on the state of safety in Poland was created in May 2009. On 18 June 2009, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Deputy Prime Minister Grzegorz Schetyn, sent the report to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Donald Tusk, a report on the security situation in 2008. The authors of the report indicate that as much as 80% The illegal funds collected by criminal groups come from economic zones, from financial and commercial crime, which is also in breach of tax offences: VAT fraud, excise duty and, to a small extent, other taxes. The sectors exposed to this type of crime were the automotive sector, mobile phones and accessories sector, the market for computer parts and accessories, the fictional trading of scrap metal and liquid fuels. At the same time, it indicated the beginning of the use of new assortments in the form of scrap of color metals and products of the steel industry and the rise of the problem of fictitious recycling of scrap, which may be more serious than so-called. fuel issues. Even a separate chapter of the MSWiA report was devoted to the problem of VAT fraud in the trading of scrap metal. MSWiA also pointed out in its report that the so-called VAT fraud is often the case. Olympic wheels, i.e. combined roundabouts in the territory of several Member States. This information was already available to the government in 2009. As the VAT-Own Committee has shown us, it is rare that these treasurers of knowledge have been used. The strategy was to be prepared on the basis of this report for the years 2010-2012. Unfortunately, this strategy was blocked by a letter from one of the Prime Minister's members, which was only created after a few years, unfortunately. It's a shame, because I think this strategy could save a lot of money. It is worth asking yourself: Did the committee make sense? It is true that it was called too late, but I think that - now looking at where we are and where we are going - its most important dimension will be how effectively it informed people about how important VAT is. I think she also had her influence on the current rulers. Ministers or employees of the Ministry of Finance sometimes listened to the deliberations of this committee, knowing that someday they may, if they do not fulfil certain duties, be put under discussion in the next Sejm. I think that these echoes of the VAT commission will indeed remain for many years. Therefore, it was worth working hard - hard, because in a very short time very many meetings, very many witnesses. Therefore, this committee was certainly needed. As far as the Court of State itself is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this institution has never had the opportunity to prove itself. I hope she shows what she can do, and really gives a chance to all those who have to stand before her to explain exactly what happened. It will also have more time. We've had less than a year, they'll probably be four years old. As for the future, we really need to bet on the online invoice register. I remember that a few years ago the Law and Justice set up Critical Applications, a special purpose company, was dedicated to this several hundred million, and unfortunately yet the results of this company's operation and the benefits are none, even though the finance minister said that every month the losses were billions more, in fact the losses to the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u136	Thank you very much. I wanted to welcome the youth from the Garden, Podzamcza and Ryczów. Young people came to us at the invitation of Marshal Dolnyak. Welcome. [[Applause]] And now I ask Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The final report of the Sejm Committee on VAT fraud is to the greatest extent worthy of recognition as very competent, honest, fully objective and farthest from any biased political motivation. Hence, it deserves the approval that we hereby grant it. However, it is important to ask a question here. In our view, this is a rhetorical question. It reads: What is the post-communist situation of the third Polish Republic concerning VAT fraud? Is it a manifestation of the pathology of this order, or is it an expression of the essence of order built in Poland since 1944 and only modified in 1989? With the approval of the report of the Sejm committee, we hope that, despite the passing of years, it will be possible to explain to a similar extent the other cases that we have been dealing with in Poland. The work of the Sejm committees plays an important role in exposing the real order that we are dealing with in Poland after 1989. The Commission investigating the case of Rywin, a committee dealing with the looting of supposed reprivatization, reveals the facts necessary for the citizens of the Republic of Poland to understand the real state of their lives. The scale of this type of activity allows us to conclude that it is not only a result of pathology, it is not a margin of social and economic life built in Poland after 1989. The extent of these phenomena as fully entitled makes the conclusion that oligarchic mechanisms can dominate democracy in Poland, and that looting practices, which are carried out with the silent consent of courts and law enforcement authorities, can often take over the law, the interests of citizens, the civilized principles of free and equal economic activity. The committee's work revealed the scale of the collapse of state structures. However, this shocking knowledge is necessary and even priceless. For we are all made aware of the extent of the changes necessary to make our homeland grow as a safe, just and prosperous country. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle expresses its gratitude and appreciation for the Sejm Committee, in particular its President, and is in favour of its report by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u138	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll make sure there's something good for everyone. We'll start with our P.O.P. and PSL buddies. Was there a VAT scandal? Yes. And I have no doubt, unlike many interrogated people. Do all roads go to the Ministry of Finance at that time? Yes. I have no doubt either. Why am I talking about this? Because as a member of this term I already had a meeting with representatives of the Polish Chamber of Spirit Products at the very beginning. And what did I learn at the time as a Member, even though there was no VAT commission at the time, there was no discussion about it yet? The House's representatives have come to me and they say: Mr, no one listens to us. I said, "Who doesn't listen?" Ministry of Finance. We walk and inform about filthy spirit, which is smuggled in quotes, legally with the silent consent of the Polish fiscal apparatus, but no one in the Ministry of Finance wants to talk. Moreover, the spirits industry has hired their detectives, prepared all the documentation of what the whole operation looks like. So? Nothing. No one responded to the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury or the law enforcement. I said, "What was that? I was the Member who set up the spirit industry with the then Deputy Minister of Finance who listened to them. And they started working. And somewhere in part, the gleaning of this action caused the subject to be dealt with in this respect. There was not yet a VAT commission, it was enough just to start acting in the Ministry of Finance and force law enforcement authorities, tax authorities, which have all the equipment and tools, finally start defending the interests of the Polish state. That was my pebble for the P.O.P. and PSL garden. And now law and justice. I ask you not to be too sweet, one of the scandals ends today, but I would like to say that the new term will start with the settlement of the two scandals: the first is GetBack and the other is the Frankfurt affair. We're waiting on the TSUE's verdict. In my opinion, this is a set-up for today, because the sentence is already written, only an announcement will be made after the election. Why after the election? Because this sentence is going to be very unfavorable for the ruling party. This sentence will end with a budget smash, and I assure you that the committee of inquiry for GetBack cases, because all paths lead to KNF, as in the case of the Frankfurt scandal, as confirmed by the NIK report, also all roads lead... [[To the JOKE.]] ... e.g. KNF. You keep quiet, you hide the subject under the rug, you close your eyes and you say: we can't see anything, we can't hear anything, because the Prime Minister knows where it came from, and I assure you that there will be billions, that will cost the state budget. It will be a tribute to acceptance, silence and consent. In a word, unfortunately, you will start a new term with a serious hump, and the Polish state and citizens will feel it the most. Thank you very much. [[Don't prophesy, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Now let's get to the questions. [[Your marshal, one and a half minutes?]] One and a half minutes. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u141	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I am on a single control file, because some Members of the opposition are very pleased to take credit for the fact that a single control file is precisely their work, their child. I would like to ask specifically whether it is true that this control file was launched in Poland 2 months before the end of the term of office, i.e. in 2015, with a huge delay. It was, High Izbo, 10 years after the OECD presented its assumptions and 7 years after Portugal implemented a similar solution. But even if it was implemented in 2015, before the end of the term of office, it was done less than halfly, because without its basic function, the sealing function, which consists in automatic reporting. You remember perfectly well. You are counting on the amnesia of Poles and that you have introduced such solutions, so that the company can voluntarily inform about the situation if the control body applies to it, but it was not automatic, forced reporting. Is it true, then, what I'm talking about? I'd like to ask you about this case. And the other thing. I've carefully analyzed, ladies and gentlemen, other solutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even if there were draft laws, it was delayed in time. You've implemented the tax administration, but you've deleted the solutions for sealing the tax system.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u142	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u143	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, how, in the context of these stories from mossland and ferns about omissions and slowdowns in tax sealing activities, do you consider what you have done with the project on the central register of online invoices? The Central Register of Invoices, the concept of which you received on a plate and which was to be reduced to authentication on the server of the Minister of Finance of Invoices in real time. You converted this project into a museum of invoices, which is actually a collection coming from the register in the form of a single control file. The need for such a solution, which I am talking about, the central register on-line - invoices authenticated by the Minister of Finance - were confirmed by Minister Paweł Szalamach and his deputy ministers. They estimated it to be PLN 3 billion a month. That's how much it costs not to do it - 3 billion a month. You specifically set up a company called the Critical Applications to prepare it. For questions about what this company is doing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I haven't been able to get an answer in six months. [[Voice from the room: Granda.]] My interpellation from April is rolling from month to month. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u144	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u145	108 billion in three years only from one solution. The committee of inquiry of the future term of office will have something to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u147	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Since we are talking about a giant event from the time of the PO-PSL government, we really need to realise what the scale of the phenomenon was: for the annual VAT gap it was possible to build, looking only at 2015, over 1,200 km of motorways... [[But you have to build it.]] ...pay over 2 million people's pensions throughout the year. We are talking about the scale of the phenomenon that took place during the Civil Platform and the PSL. This committee of inquiry has clearly demonstrated the passiveness, omissions and lack of any effective action that would lead to a reduction in VAT fraud. Therefore, I have a question for the rapporteur: Does the committee of inquiry have clear evidence that the former Prime Minister Donald Tusk had knowledge of the scale of VAT fraud and did not take action? Does the committee of inquiry have clear documents that expose any lack of interest in Prime Minister Donald Tusk's problem with the gigantic looting of public funds? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u148	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Krajewski, 108 billion for a period of 3 years is your fault. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] For two years: 2005, 2007, it is also your fault - you have not decided to examine this period. [[The corrigendum, the name came up.]] Therefore, a single control file prepared because we are talking about 2 months before the end of the term of office. [[Corrigendum. That's not true information.]] Ladies and gentlemen, where's the Prime Minister's statement about his estate? [[What does that have to do with anything?]] [[Voice from the room: About VAT.]] Those are your true words. Where is the statement or additional report on discrepancies prepared by Mr Konwiński? Mr Reporter, you have failed to comply with your obligation. You recall one of the witnesses by name, I will not speak here, but you ignore that 80 other witnesses in this case did not share this information. So I want to tell you that you're manipulating. If you would like to talk about reliability - one said yes, 80 differently. In 2013 we prepared a large bill to talk about facts, the state did not support it, they wanted to extend the work in the finance committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then the steel industry thanked the Prime Minister. I will no longer quote the content of this thank you. Is it true that the introduction of reverse VAT would cut back and cut back VAT fraud?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u150	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u151	Is it true that PiS did not vote in 2013?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u153	Don't be like the Pharisees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u154	Thank you. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice. [[Correct, Marshal.]] I have heard you say so, Mr President. There's a discussion going on for now. Thank you. [[Okay, thank you, marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the marketing of electronic products. The question is: Is it true that already in 2010 the common position of the Tax Control Department, the Tax Administration Department and the Tax Intelligence Department spoke about the need for legal changes to seal the trading of electronic products? Is it true that these changes were only introduced 5 years later, in a situation where each year of delay led to 2 billion losses for our country's budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The report of the committee of inquiry on the VAT gap is a compilation of lies, manipulations, fake news and ignorance of its president, and the request to put two prime ministers and two finance ministers before the Court of State is actually a dramatic but unsuccessful attempt to cover the fact that you do not have a programme for Poland during the ongoing election campaign. The evidence that this whole report is one big political humbug is a lot, but I'm just going to quote two. It's about two reports. One of them, mentioned by President Konwiński, is about the size of the VAT gap in Poland in 2004 and 2017 - the Ministry of Finance under Minister Banasia. It is assumed that the tax base equals one. In practice, this flexibility has been found to be less than one during the deconstructive period and more than one during the period of prosperity, due to the pro-cyclical nature of the impact on VAT. Thus, the estimation of the size of the proceeds and the tax gap may contain large inconsistencies. Minister Banas told you that. You should have learned a little from people who work at the Ministry of Finance. And finally, the Supreme Auditorium report. The audit did not identify conscious omissions aimed at delaying or halting the improvement of tax discipline, and elsewhere we read that throughout the period considered the Minister of Finance has undertaken a number of supervisory actions to improve the VAT collection system, to counteract State revenue losses in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He carefully monitored the tasks and objectives assigned to the services under his authority. So much for the reliability of the report of the VAT gap committee and the Court of State. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the same report for the years 2010 and 2015 speaks of a negative assessment of the activities of the Minister of Finance and its subordinate bodies in countering the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities. It has been shown that: the solutions used are insufficient. New, comprehensive tools are needed to significantly improve the reduction of losses resulting from fraud in goods and services tax. It's also a report from the Supreme Board of Control. But I would like to ask the questions to the rapporteur, President Martin Horala. Is it true that Poland's accession to the working area of procedure 42.00 on the Eurofisc platform was delayed for 2.5 years, which prevented the exchange of information necessary for effective prosecution of fraud by this procedure, i.e. with regard to intra-Community supplies? Is it true that General Rapacki, Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, could not find any solutions to seal the tax system, prevent fraud, and already as a partner of Rapacki and Partners, he could provide information that entrepreneurs presented to the Ministry of Finance? And is it true that Donald Tusk was receiving reports from the Secret Service, which he was overseeing directly at some time, with indirect supervision at all times? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did these reports mention an expanding system in the area of VAT fraud? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u160	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u161	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about your credibility in the context of the report presented today. Why didn't the committee listen to the Prime Minister of the Government of PiS Mateusz Morawiecki, who was a member of the Economic Council at the Prime Minister of Tusk and present very original ideas to reduce consumption and thus reduce VAT revenues? It's about a famous job for a bowl of rice. What about Jarosław Kaczyński in the context of the fact that he was asking for leniency for a VAT criminal who left prison about a year and a half earlier? [[What does that have to do with the report?]] And the last couple of weeks. And I'm sure you know that. It's about how you sealed the VAT. Announcements: I'll give you the costs. I'll give you VAT. I'll sell the invoices. This is happening under your rule. This is an ad you can find on the Internet. [[Member, report this to the prosecutor's office as you know it.]] Interestingly, in this advert, there is a link to the article that is entitled: The single control file does not work and is written by Witold Modzelewski, your member of the program board. How do you seal it? What is your credibility in the context of the actions of people who are related to the PiS, your member of the program board, in the context of actions on the basis of which companies can make such announcements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u162	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u163	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Today we are talking about the VAT gap and the report of the VAT committee, but soon before all of us, or before the Members of the future term of office of the Sejm, there will certainly be a question of the next committee, the tax audit committee. Because we have the excise hole of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Only three excise and customs specialists were interviewed, although the resolution on the establishment of a committee of inquiry obliges you to deal with excise duties as well. Now criminals are going into excise duty and you're missing the problem. During the PiS government, fuel sales increased by 25% and excise revenues by 12.5%. These are data from 2016 and 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, this crazy increase in turnover at petrol stations has not translated into an equally generous increase in budget revenue. You're running out of billions. What happens to the excise duty on fuel, and why hasn't the committee addressed the issue of excise duty, even though it was called upon to do so? Extortion of excise duty also means extortion of VAT because it reduces the tax base. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u164	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u165	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The first question to the rapporteur, because there will be a few. Is it true that Prime Minister Donald Tusk's decision to liquidate the Department for the Protection of State's Economic Interests in the Internal Security Agency? At the same time, the Prime Minister's guidelines for the Central Anti-Corruption Office have never identified the prosecution of VAT carousels as a priority, leading to the passiveness of service towards mass, billions of frauds. Second question. Ladies and gentlemen, a little bit of reference to the statement made by my previous speaker, I would just like to say to you that excise revenue is not only VAT excise duty, but it is also a question of alcohols and drugs. I think you should turn to this... [[Voice from the room: VAT excise?]] Not only from fuel, I'm sorry, but also about tobacco, but also alcohol. I think you should know that. And a question for the rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, is it true what we talked about at the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, as Eurostat also says, that in 2013 100 tanks entering Poland from the customs and treasury system evaporated 77, i.e. three tanks in four melted at the border, were not taxed, it was not known where the fuel was imported? In 2014, ladies and gentlemen, 70% tanks entering Poland with diesel disappeared mysteriously at the border. And just to show what the effects of the introduction of the fuel package and sealing procedures were, I will say that in 2017 - these are also the data of the Ministry of Finance, Eurostat data - there were also three tanks that disappeared at the border, but not on four, but on a hundred, because it turned out that the system was recorded 97% [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tanks with fuel coming in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You have no shame. How can you talk like that? It just doesn't fit in your head that you can tell so many lies. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[All of you saints. This is your narrative.]] There's no way in your head that you could have selected Mr. Szewczak, the chief economist of the SKOKs, to speak on your behalf on any matter. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Just be careful, because there will be a trial, Mr. President. I suggest you be careful.]] How can you say that you have sealed anything if hard data tells you that the economy is developing and that VAT is not coming in the right way, but to the extent that the economy is developing? [[How doesn't he come? 200 billion last year.]] How can you talk about the vans disappearing? First of all, I wanted to ask... [[You guys had 100, and we had 200.]] There's a problem. Why isn't any of the current authorities of the Ministry of Finance here? Because you have a lot to hide. [[Voice from the hall: No questions to the Minister of Finance.]] I wanted to ask myself why all of me personally known cases of VAT carousels crashing in the times of the Civic Platform and PSL ended with the fact that the people who did this were fired both from the special services and from the tax offices, all of them. And this reform you've introduced has ended in a famous... Probably Mr. Sławomir Grewa, who was so curiously testifying in front of the committee, had something to do with it. I'm curious if [[♪ The bell ♪]] Answer That's the question, because these are the official records of your Ministry of Finance. 1.1 thousand. alcohol smuggling cases, 5,000 have been detained. I, i.e. 4.9 l per case.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u168	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u169	Normally, a woman with bags carried so much as ants crossed the Polish border. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Leave the woman alone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u171	1.8,000. fuel smuggling cases, 140 000. And...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u172	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u173	...i.e. 78 l for one smuggling. So what? [[The voice from the room: In the bags, did she carry the fuel?]] No, in the canisters.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u174	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u175	Are those two canisters moving? You have no shame. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, you are from Mars. The women are from Venus, and you're from Mars.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u176	Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Most of us are referring to various reports during today's discussion. I also wanted to ask about the European Commission's reports and two very simple to analyse the number. One is from the beginning of the Civic Platform's rule, which means second place in tax collection. We were the elite of Europe back then. After eight years of government, we fell to 22nd place. This is something that every man, even a little sensible, should give a lot to think about. This also led, ladies and gentlemen, to an increase in the VAT gap from around 8% up to 27%. Not by 3%, not by 13%, not by 133%, but by 300%. The increase in the VAT gap at the time is over 300%. I wanted to ask, during the committee hearings, did you get the answer to a certain simple question: What did individual prime ministers and individual finance ministers do with these reports? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: How was the road from Radom?]] Because I think the lack of reaction on their part really puts these people in a very bad light. What is still very important is that I think the answer to the question of how the whole [[♪ The bell ♪]] This mechanism could work because we hear that tens, hundreds of people were involved. Didn't the finance minister and prime ministers realise that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u178	Thank you, sir. I wanted to welcome a group from the Bialygard district from the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, which is now observing the Sejm's proceedings. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u179	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Horała said that if the PO-PSL government introduced any instruments, they were wrong or were too late or did not introduce them at all. So I would like to say that the EU's recommendations and positive experiences of other countries have been followed and a reverse burden has been introduced, jointly and severally the responsibility of the buyer of sensitive goods and a single control file in 2015. It is true that the obligation to transfer VAT registers monthly was introduced in 2016, but this was the result of previous work. [[Applause]] So that was the wrong thing to do? Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the PO-PSL government, work has been done on the central invoice register, on the split payment. If we say it was so late, I will remind you that the first country that introduced the split payment was Italy in 2015. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to say that it was the PO-PSL government that set up the Tax Law Consultative Council, whose results I no longer have time to present. And one last reflection. Well, Mr Horała scratched us here and declared the deep and sincere love of PiS to seal... [[You're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u180	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u181	...but it is not obvious if we look at the vote on the reverse burden, joint responsibility or a single control file. And that's what I'm asking you: Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u182	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened carefully to the rapporteur's report, but I still have a question about it. Is it true that the inspections of the Supreme Audit Chamber - I will remind you that under the direction of President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski - revealed situations in which companies identified by the tax authorities as fronts for criminal groups were not for weeks, and even months deleted by tax offices from the register of active VAT taxpayers, which allowed them to continue their activities, would I say VAT fraud? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u184	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the whole debate of Members, especially the Law and Justice, one might think that the VAT gap in Poland no longer exists. Well, I listen to the Prime Minister and I hear he's going to Europe to teach other countries how to close this VAT gap. [[Voice from the hall: Because they want to be taught.]] And then I look at the report of the Ministry of Finance on the size of the tax gap, VAT gap in Poland and read on page 29: According to the European Commission report, Poland remains a country with one of the biggest VAT gaps in the European Union. The tax gap in Poland is therefore still at a level which indicates the possibility of improvement. And I'm thinking, it's probably an old report. [[What year?]] No, the report is from March 2019. I'm inviting you guys to really get to know this. 'Cause what does it turn out to be? How to count, look at the statistics... [[Voice from the room: Data from what year?]] [[Data from 2017]] ...the amount of the VAT gap is PLN 119 billion in the years 2016-2018. If you accept your narrative, Prime Minister Morawiecki stole PLN 119 billion from Poles and Poles. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] Why isn't he on the tankers? Why doesn't there be a conclusion... [[A voice from the room: You'll think about what you're saying.]] ...to stand before the Court of State? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If, then, Prime Minister Morawiecki ruled for eight years, how much, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Speaking of PiS, he stole from the Poles? PLN 320 billion. [[A voice from the room: You'll think about what you're saying. This isn't a bazaar. This is the Seym.]] He's beating the PO-PSL government on the head. As if by paraphrasing one of my fellow Members, Mr Krajewski...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u186	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u187	...Gigantic looting continues. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Once again, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the narrative of what I hear here, what the opposition is talking about, there is no guilt, all saints - this is how you behave, and you are trying the burden of responsibility for the fact that several hundred billion zlotys have disappeared from the state's budget, to be transferred to the rule of law and justice. It's outrageous how you guys act. [[Applause]] We talk to Poles and we hear what they have to tell us, that they live better and safer, safer because the Polish state finally managed to deal with the fuel mafia, with the VAT mafia, became a guardian of the law. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You are not so excited.]] [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the huge work the committee has put in confirms these opinions that we have stood by the law, that we have sealed the tax system in a few years and we are trying to do so all the time. Question: Is it true that the government of PO and PSL, instead of collecting money from tax mobs, reached into the pockets of Poles and Poles, honest taxpayers, e.g. by raising the main VAT rate, which further increased the cost-effectiveness of tax fraud? And the next question: Who was the so-called one supposed to be for? Green island? Isn't it for crooks and tax criminals? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u190	Please, Mr Adam Cyranski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur began his speech by saying: "The authority has failed." But in September 2018, Deputy Minister of Finance and now President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Marian Banaś stated that the VAT mafia had not disappeared and that they were often organized by terrorists. So I ask, referring also to the speech of my previous speaker: Is it true that the VAT mafia has not disappeared? [[In your day, they ruled.]] Are they organized by terrorists? What did the management of the Ministry of Finance do with that knowledge? How many terrorists were caught? [[But it's not an object...]] How many reports did the finance minister make to the D.A.'s office regarding the organisation of the VAT mafia by terrorists? Has cooperation with the special forces been undertaken in this direction? If so, with what and to what extent? What are its effects? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u192	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u193	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the last days on Polish roads you could meet tanks of shame, shame of the Civic Platform and PSL. [[Oh, you could have met.]] I know you don't like it. I don't like it either. Your press spokesperson, as he commented on the tank of shame, commented that he lied and now needs to straighten out the information he gave in the election mode, the lies he gave. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't like the cisterns either. I particularly do not like the content of the inscription that is on them in the tanks of shame, about how much money was disappearing from the state budget. This information is terrible for Poles, tragic for Poles. And I have a question for the president, the rapporteur. Is it true that, under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, 600 illegal, left tanks were entering Poland every day with illegal fuel? Is it true that the state budget lost on average PLN 24 million a day? 24 million, ladies and gentlemen. This is the cost of building a decent school. Every day a new primary school could be established in Poland for the money that was stolen. [[Why isn't it happening now?]] [[Voice from the room: It's a lot.]] Is it true that we have lost so much money in your rule? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u194	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Under PO-PSL, the countries of the European Union issued criminals to Poland. They are currently refusing, arguing this by politicising the justice system. For example, the Spanish court did not issue Poland under the government of PiS a VAT criminal. Is it true that between 2008 and 2015 the Polish justice system enjoyed the trust of Western European countries so much that they issued VAT criminals to Poland? It's not enough right now... [[This is not the subject of a report.]] ...that the countries of the European Union do not want to give us criminals, the government has decided not to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which was to deal with crimes against the European Union budget and VAT fraud, including fraud involving EU funds? Is it true that the main reason why Poland did not join the European Public Prosecutor's Office is the problems of PiS and Solidarna Polska, which used EU money for party purposes and could be dealt with by the European Public Prosecutor's Office? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u196	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen! The VAT scandal shows, in fact, that the State here failed, that the State was unable to fight the VAT mafia or it was very, very inefficient, in such a way that these VAT mafias were moving from one item to another. And so my question is: Is it true that the actions of the Civic Platform and the PSL, which were to lead to the implementation of the reversed VAT, which turned out to be a remedy under the rule of Law and Justice for this problem, that these actions were very slow, that these activities were delayed, so that the VAT mafia was moving from one commodity to another, and this further increased the scale of fraud from the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u198	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! 600 tanks, honourable Members, are the same credibility as 1 million electric cars. Has anyone seen these electric cars? [[The scooters are here.]] Exactly. And my question about... [[Voice from the hall: And the tanks were seen.]] ... VAT is as follows. In 2015, at the end of this year, Members of the PiS submitted a draft law in which they wanted to abolish the reverse charge on VAT. The industry reacted very strongly. I've got press clippings here. This idea was criticized because it was a very good mechanism for sealing VAT. [[Fraud, too.]] Of course, this did not happen because we did not allow it to happen. And my concrete question: Why in the hottest period of the campaign before the parliamentary elections in 2015 did the PiS in its draft VAT Act want to lift the reverse burden, i.e. the sealing solution of the tax system? Let's face it, let's answer the signal that was sent to tax frauds in connection with such a project and whose interests were the proposed changes. I'm asking for an honest, honest answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u200	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marcin Porzucek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the abolition of the obligation to lodge securities in import procedures introduced in 2011 resulted in a decrease of PLN 18 billion in VAT receipts settled at customs offices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Janowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that the first reports on the VAT problem appeared in 2007. I have this question: Is it true that the main schemes for VAT fraud were already known in 2007 and yet no systemic sealing measures were implemented by 2015? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u204	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Iwona Arent, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I remember when in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the Civic Platform was rooting for her PSL, and she was very eager to separate the prosecution from the Minister of Justice. It was a very inept attempt to reform the D.A.'s office because what happened then? It happened that independent prosecutors did not want to answer questions at all, did not listen to ministers or the Minister of Justice. They did not act for the benefit of the State and for the benefit of the State. I have a question as to whether it is true that this reform of the prosecutor's office, which was carried out by the government of PSL and the Civic Platform, led to the liquidation of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, and thus to the liquidation of the local departments of the prosecutor's office, completely relaxed the relationship of subordinates, prevented the issuing of binding orders for legal proceedings. This prevented coordinated action and coordinated investigation of organised crime groups that were active throughout the country. Is it true that this reform has led to the [[♪ The bell ♪]] The D.A.'s office wasn't working against criminal groups? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Check.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u206	Thank you. Please, Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the ready-made law sealing VAT on scrap metal trade was in the government for almost two years, from 2009 to 2011, before it was sent to the Sejm? And yet it does not contain a legal definition of scrap metal, which meant that for the continuation of criminal activity it was enough to change the name on the invoices from the word scrap to a word of similar importance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u208	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u209	I wanted to answer the Member who asked if the VAT mafia existed. Yes, sir, VAT mobs still exist, but we are effectively breaking them down and putting them in jail or prisons in conviction. In your day, however, it was the VAT mafia that ruled simply in the tax system. I wanted to ask Mr Horala, the rapporteur - although, in fact, this question should be addressed rather to the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Justice, perhaps even to the Prime Minister - whether it is true that this desire, such recently very active, to appeal the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General may have something to do with the fact that this minister introduced 25 years in prison for these large VAT scams, introduces an anti-Lichwiar law... [[No, that's not it. Absolutely.]] ...breaks up those gangs that aren't just dealing with drugs. Let me remind you that it is recorded on the tapes such a conversation between Minister Grasio and his colleagues, in which Minister Gras instructs, says that now the Mafia does not do drugs, but VAT. This is one of Mr Donald Tusk's closest associates. So you don't tell us moss fairy tales and ferns that it's some coincidence that it's the same thing, it's bad, and it's gonna get worse. The leading people in the country knew both about the reprivatization incident, the theft of Warsaw's tenement houses, and about the VAT scandal. [[SKOK-i, SKOK-i.]] [[And about the SKOKs.]] It's just that nobody did anything, didn't lift a finger, because you should have done it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Play soccer, smoke a good cigar and drink a year-old cognac. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u210	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur for the committee by Marcin Horala.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the questions asked. In many questions there was a thread of a single control file. This is an undoubtedly sealing operation of the system and undoubtedly extremely delayed in Poland. As I have already mentioned, the 2005 OECD recommendations were introduced in the first European country, Portugal, in 2008. This was not launched in Poland. This was adopted 2 months before the end of the term of office, in 2015, without the basic function of automatic reporting. It is not true that the introduction of this function in 2016 is the implementation of what was adopted in 2015, because the 2015 Act did not provide for such a function not only at the time of introduction but ever in the future. The Minister Szczurek, asked about this, stated that in the original version of the Act there was such a duty for the largest entities. But it doesn't make sense for only the biggest actors to report, because they have to report everyone, then there's a full picture. Well, what did he bring in? An amendment to report them all? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Nobody.]] And that was the sealing of the Platform. [[Applause]] As for the delay in the introduction of the Central Register of Online Invoices... In fact, it has not yet been introduced, because other equivalent solutions have been introduced, with similar results: above all, reporting a single control file, which gives an image once a month, automatic, but also a STIR system, which at the level of bank transfers in real time blocks suspicious transfers and cash flow to organized crime groups. In this situation, the Central Register of Invoices will already be such a complement, such a cherry on the cake of this already very sealed system. Of course, the amount of PLN 3 billion per month referred in the statements of the Deputy Minister of Finance to the total expected profits from the sealing of the tax system. This sealing has already been carried out and these proverbial 3 billion a month, or even more, extra, already affect the budget. Did Mr. Donald Tusk have any knowledge of the scale of fraud? Of course he did, he had to. I'll tell you more: if he proves he didn't have one, that means he didn't carry out his duties in a gross way, [[Applause]] Because it was already common knowledge... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...it was the knowledge contained in the reports of the Supreme Chamber of Control, but above all it was specific, addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland signal notes, directed at least from the Internal Security Agency. Mr. Donald Tusk said he didn't receive them. When we showed him one of them, because she was declassified, we displayed it during the interrogation, he said that he didn't read it, that maybe someone in his firm read it, but he doesn't know who did it. This again clearly constitutes a failure to fulfil the obligations of the Prime Minister of the Republic. Because why do we even have special forces at all when they signal to the Prime Minister a serious danger to the state, and the Prime Minister simply doesn't read to himself or know where these notes are dying in his firm? Mrs Skowrońska said that 80 witnesses said otherwise than one. And the committee interviewed 67 witnesses in general. That is the credibility of these statements. As regards reverse VAT, e.g. for steel rods, that the steel chamber thanked... She thanked me because, for years, she alerted me that extortion was taking place, and she couldn't wait for these solutions for years. When they finally, after years, were introduced, of course entrepreneurs in this industry were happy and for them it was a good solution. But from a budget point of view, it didn't work, because at that time the best extortion flourished, e.g. On fuel, on electronics. And so it went one by one: scrap metal, steel rods, fuel, electronics. The introduction of reverse VAT on further goods was classic catching, chasing a rabbit so that it would never catch it. The total amount of extortion for the state budget grew from year to year. Therefore, the vote of the PiS Members, who did not always support these solutions, because these solutions were extremely delayed, flawed, full of holes. Like I said, we're putting it into scrap metal, but we're forgetting to introduce a legal definition of scrap metal. We introduce the raw materials from aluminum, but already e.g. We don't bring copper and lead. Or the batteries used. After every action, there was always a wide field left for criminal groups to have a place to work, a place to move their activities. Therefore, I am not surprised to the Members in their current term of office that they were not so eager to support these solutions. Same with electronics. This is where the delay was indicated. 2010 - this is already a joint application of a number of departments of the Ministry of Finance, among others. tax intelligence, tax control. The year 2009 - these are the conclusions of the coordinated audit. But as early as 2007, in the May 2007 report of the House of Lords, there is the opinion that electronics are: fraudsters, commodity of choice, the favorite commodity of tax frauds. Mr. Jan Vincent-Rostowski testified that he had read this report before he became Minister of Finance. When he came to the Ministry of Finance, he had this knowledge. During the entire period when he was doing his job, he did nothing and didn't do anything about sealing the electronics trade at all. When it comes to relying on inaccuracies in the assessment of the tax gap, of course, every respect is to a certain extent inaccurate. We're never gonna figure out what the gold is. We don't have a central ledger of criminal groups, where we can figure out how much money they stole. On the other hand, all major assessment institutions are talking about giant amounts. Even if they make a mistake of 25% and for example. Not 250 billion have disappeared from the budget, but - let's say - 200 billion, so what? Are you okay then? That's okay, right? It's only over 200 billion that die from the budget that starts the problem? On the contrary. B, total losses are even greater, because let's not forget the multiplier effect, how much additional benefits would have been given us 200 billion more in legitimate economic turnover, in taxes. [[PIT and CIT.]] It's so much money on the market. People would buy something for it, someone would have to sell it, they'd make money, companies would pay CIT, people would pay PIT, etc. Thus, the total losses for these irregularities it's over 300 billion, and we're just talking about respect for the VAT gap itself. I always compare it, for example. to this situation: the car was stolen and there are three estimates of the experts. One says the car was worth 60,000, the other says 62,000, the third is worth 64,000. The thief would say he can't be held accountable because these are just estimates, they're inconsistent, so you can't even talk about him stealing a car. These are ridiculous translations. As regards the delay of 2.5 years for joining the Eurofisc platform, in the 42 procedure, please note that this coincided with the abolition of safeguards for this procedure. In other words, in the old system, the importer had to lodge a security, he had to deposit with the office money which, if it were finally proved that he had not paid the tax due, could have been taken away and recovered for the state budget. At the same time, this security was abolished and Poland did not join the information exchange platform, and in the simplified procedure 42 it is impossible to detect fraud without exchanging information with another country. Because fraud happens when there is no intra-Community supply of goods. So if we from the country we're supposed to be delivering to, we don't have the information automatically, then we can't detect the crime. At that time, the European Court of Auditors indicated that, in this very procedure, up to 1/4 of turnover could be fictional and could be used for fraud. Strangely enough, it was the area where the Minister of Paris was responsible for this, for not joining this platform. The behaviour of General Rapacki, Deputy Minister - was also extremely symptomatic. Being Vice Minister of Home Affairs in the pursuit of economic crime, he doesn't know what it takes to stop it. He's leaving the ministry, setting up a private law firm, no longer under his service, and the police, he's got a few employees. And suddenly, after six months, he knows what needs to be done, and he presents a solid report -- very good recommendations -- about what needs to be done to put an end to this kind of crime. On the question of why the committee did not question Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Kaminski or Jarosław Kaczyński, I will answer simply: the committee was from investigating irregularities and extortion of VAT, not from satisfying the political interest of the opposition, [[Applause]] who would necessarily want to involve a name associated with Law and Justice, even though it had nothing to do with the case. E.g. Prime Minister Morawiecki, then head of a large bank, was one of twenty-six people sitting on a quarterly advisory board that had never dealt with the issue of VAT fraud. And if she did, we would first question her chairman, Jan Krzysztof Bielecki. But she wasn't. What is the credibility of the PiS when it comes to sealing? That's the question. That in 2015, we had 123 billion VAT in the budget, and next year we will have 200 billion. [[Applause]] Almost twice as much. The Polish economy is developing brilliantly, but not so fast that it will almost double in 4 years. The additional receipts are those resulting from the sealing of the tax system. Mr Furgo, he's gone, he's talking about an excise gap. He may not know that in one of the main schemes of VAT fraud on fuels in this operation excise duties have been paid in order to make the whole operation credible, and then in the absence of payment or even extortion of VAT to obtain a much greater advantage than the one invested in the payment of excise duties. Hence, with the sealing and increase of fuel revenues, we have noted the very high impact of VAT on this fuel, but not as much excise duty as it was paid earlier in extortion schemes to make it credible and to make it easier to extort VAT in much larger amounts. It is true that Donald Tusk has eliminated the State's Department of Economic Interests in the ABW, merging it with the Counterintelligence Department and the Counter-Terrorism Department, but there is also a question of CBA task. The CBA did not deal with this issue at all. By 2015, the CBA headquarters and eight delegations in VAT fraud cases had exactly nine proceedings, a little more than one procedure per year. And what is the contrast with the time after 2015, when such proceedings, not only proceedings, but also arrests, broken criminal groups and accusations are hundreds? [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] The European Commission's reports, of course, were. It was stated in each subsequent report that Poland was falling, falling and falling to other places in terms of efficiency of the tax system. I can only briefly answer the question of what the rulers have done with it: they have done nothing, they have done nothing. Mr Nykiel talked about how the Platform introduced sealing through a reverse load. I've already talked about how the opposite load was working in different freight groups. I've already discussed the uniform control file. Solid responsibility. It was the Consultative Council of Tax Law, whose appointment the Professor praised here, that the mechanism of joint and several liability with the guarantee deposit only facilitated extortion, believed criminal groups. They were more likely, on a larger scale, to invest 200 or 500,000. Bail to later extort tens of millions. Industry organisations have also pointed to this. In this context, the settlement of the Law and Justice, which was then in opposition, from voting is completely absurd. Those who were in charge of the special forces, the prosecutors' office, the tax authorities, the tax authorities, who did nothing and who did not feel responsible, believe that they were responsible for the opposition Members who did not even provide adequate information that they themselves had and received. This is another absurdity. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And it was actually that the draft merger of the tax services was blocked by the previous government of Law and Justice. This led to a completely sick competition and a lack of cooperation, for example, between tax offices and tax offices. For example, the tax authorities entered companies, had arrangements for huge billions, set irregularities for huge billions, were rewarded for this, and then these arrears were directed to the execution by the tax offices. It turned out that all this was displayed on poles, that there was no wealth there, that it was simply a fiction that really none of it could be recovered. What is the final determination, which is not contested, which is not the subject of proceedings in an administrative court? On the pole. The post doesn't have any assets, it's homeless, it's middle-aged, it's middle-aged, so it doesn't appeal. There's a final determination, a great success of the IRS, but then nothing can be recovered from it. An important manipulation to which I must address is that there is now a very large gap, because 120 billion, 119 billion for 3 years. Very simple manipulation. Yeah, 119 billion, but almost half of it is the first year. This is a situation inherited from the Civic Platform. [[Yes, sir.]] During this year, various solutions, legal, personal and organisational changes were introduced. After a year, the gap was much smaller, after another year - even smaller. And that's the difference. And it's the same with the arithmetic mean. The platform inherited an excellent situation: a very small gap. She was talented in this regard, but immediately, i.e. year after year, she hasn't completely ruined it. It took two, three years. So the average goes into those years when it wasn't completely broken yet. [[And how much did your friend pull out?]] The PiS inherited a huge VAT gap, a record. It's very sealed, and there's great progress from year to year, but it's not going to be able to reduce this huge size to a small or zero size in a year either. Luka is limited from year to year. It is already below the European average, while in recent years the Platform has had twice the European average. That's the basic difference. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] It is very right to say that the Platform government reached into the pockets of Poles instead of reaching into the pockets of VAT mobs. As a result of the activities of VAT fraud criminal groups, the budget was dramatically lacking. The money was leaking out of the budget. Instead of sealing this leak, additional funds were added from taxpayers' pockets, raising retirement age, taking money from OFE or raising the main VAT rate, which in itself is particularly interesting, because it made the extortion even more profitable, because from one false invoice of PLN 1 million 230 thousand was extorted, not 220 thousand. And this hole bucket, or rather the hole tank, could be added to it forever. The tax camera played a little bit in the role of such a reader, who walks around honest entrepreneurs and threatens them with proceedings, criminal liability, to take their money, then a light hand to pay the tax mob unfair returns. If we're talking about reform of the D.A.'s office, she didn't just crash the entire D.A.'s office. There was further action there, as we are already on the subject of the prosecution's case. After two Supreme Court rulings, which in fact caused the criminals for VAT fraud to be responsible mainly for fines and suspended penalties, the head of the economic prosecutor's office considered it appropriate to send a special letter to prosecutors throughout Poland, in which he paid particular attention to these two rulings. Did he care about it or something? Prosecutors do not demand too high penalties, because it was a question of asking for smaller ones, whether someone is accidentally arrested because of the threat of high penalties or whether there should be a statute of limitations, because a lower penalty is also a faster limitation period. [[Training was.]] The professor who disseminated this interpretation in doctrine was employed by the prosecutor's office to train prosecutors, while also being an active lawyer representing persons charged with VAT fraud. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm running out of time. There are still a few questions left, but I think there will still be an opportunity to discuss this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u212	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Krajewski. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I must correct these two informations which were presented here by the PO-KO Members, because this is a matter of misunderstanding of the tax gap of what it is. It is about demonstrating the resources that should be paid to the State budget and those that have actually entered the budget. But first of all, it's a question. showing the scale of the phenomenon. It is worth pointing out to Members of the Civic Platform what was the scale of the phenomenon in terms of the VAT gap between 2007 and 2015. And that's the answer. This was the tax gap from 2007 to 2015. [[Let me see the sixth one. From the IRS, show me the sixth.]] This clearly exposes the hypocrisy of Members of the Civic Platform who are concerned about what is happening today with VAT. What about the years of the Civic Platform? Where were you when there was pathology on this scale because we're talking about this scale? And today we have record influences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the state budget and we have a 500+ family programme and other programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u214	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. According to Art. 19c paragraph. 3rd Act on the Parliament's committee of inquiry on the report of the committee of inquiry shall not be put to a vote. That concludes our consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of previous price agreements (print No 3788). Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Tomasz Robaczyński... No, I'm sorry. Minister, this is the second time I've had a faux pas like this. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Tadeusz Kościński, of course. Please state the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u215	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the Government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of previous price agreements, contained in Seym printing No 3788. The essence of the project is, firstly, the implementation of Directive 2017/1852 of the Council of the European Union of October 2017 on mechanisms for resolving disputes concerning double taxation in the European Union, secondly, the transfer to the draft law of the Tax Order on prior pricing arrangements, taking into account their simplification and improvement of the procedure for issuing such agreements, and, thirdly, the introduction of a cooperation programme, i.e. a new form of cooperation between strategic taxpayers and the head of the National Tax Administration based on mutual trust, understanding and transparency, which aims to ensure compliance with tax law with the support given by the Head of the National Tax Administration. The Act is part of the current package of solutions in income tax benefits for taxpayers. It improves existing double taxation dispute resolution procedures and introduces additional instruments that increase the certainty of taxpayers exposed to double taxation by other countries in achieving a positive solution to their problems within a certain timeframe. In particular, the most important proposed changes include, first, the introduction of a new mechanism to ensure the harmonisation of the rules for resolving disputes concerning double taxation of profits in the European Union, as well as a specific timeframe for tax authorities to take certain measures. For example, the decision to accept the case should take place within 6 months of the taxpayer's submission of the application and the procedure for mutual communication between States should be completed within 2 or 3 years of the start of the procedure. In addition, in the absence of an agreement between the States on whether or not the case is dealt with, the draft law provides for the possibility of setting up an arbitration panel at the request of a taxable person consisting of independent experts and who draws up an opinion on the adoption or settlement of the case. The draft law also introduces the possibility for a taxable person to assert his rights before a court, in particular in a situation of inaction of tax administrations, e.g. if the experts are not appointed to the advisory committee or if the taxable person is not informed within the time limit for the decision to be taken. Secondly, at the same time, the draft law organises double taxation procedures by concentrating existing measures under a single legal act: procedures under the Arbitration Convention for related parties operating in the European Union, and procedures under double taxation agreements that both companies and citizens use, e.g. Sailors or retirees. Thirdly, in the scope of the previous price agreements, the regulations already contained in the Tax Order were transferred to the draft law, extending them to the possibility for a foreign entity planning to start proceedings for a prior price agreement in Poland. This solution serves primarily the development of a socially responsible and willing business in Poland with tax obligations in proportion to the scale of the real activity carried out in Poland, which has a positive impact on the state budget. Fourthly, the draft law also provides the legal basis for the implementation of the cooperation programme by the National Tax Administration. This is intended to be a new form of voluntary cooperation between the National Tax Administration and strategic taxpayers based on mutual trust and transparency of conduct, which will reduce the cost of collecting taxes and reduce administrative burdens for entrepreneurs. The program will be addressed to the largest and reliable companies, i.e. with revenues above EUR 50 million and those whose internal tax supervision organisation ensures the correct implementation of tax obligations. These include corporate governance, internal control, audit, risk management, etc. It is planned that the Act will enter into force after 14 days from the date of publication in the Official Journal, except for parts of the provisions that will become applicable within other time limits, e.g. Cooperation programme - from 1 July 2020 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u216	Thank you very much, Minister. I am very pleased to welcome you to the gallery of students and teachers from primary schools in Bachowice and Głębowice. The tour is organised by Mr Zbigniew Biernat. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on behalf of clubs and circles for five minutes. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of prior price agreements. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to point out that, as a club, we will support these decisions, above all because of all the arguments put forward by the Minister. Double taxation of profits in different countries has a negative impact on international economic activity and leads to a deterioration of business conditions and economic efficiency, thereby creating barriers to development in the common market. There is a need for a mechanism to increase efficiency and efficiency in resolving disputes arising from the problem of double taxation in the European Union. The lack of uniformity in the procedures for resolving double taxation disputes, including at EU level, in the context of progressive globalisation, changing tax rules, quantitative and valuable growth in cross-border economic operations may raise concerns about additional negative consequences for which procedures to protect taxpayers in the face of double taxation problems would be blocked. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, on behalf of the Parliamentary Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition on the Government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of previous price agreements, print No 3788. The draft law introduces a new mechanism to ensure uniform rules for the settlement of disputes concerning double taxation of profits within the European Union. Double taxation of profits in different countries has a negative impact on international economic activity and leads to a deterioration of business conditions and economic efficiency, thereby creating barriers to development in the common market. The lack of uniformity of dispute resolution procedures, including at EU level, in the context of progressive globalisation is a negative phenomenon. The new mechanism to ensure the harmonisation of dispute resolution rules in this respect is included in the Council Directive of 10 October 2017 on mechanisms for resolving disputes concerning double taxation in the European Union. The Directive obliges all Member States to introduce the provisions necessary for its implementation. In addition, the draft law sets out the existing double taxation procedures for proceedings under the Convention on the Elimination of Double Taxation in the case of the correction of profits of affiliated enterprises and of proceedings under double taxation agreements, by concentrating them in a single legal act, which will affect their transparency and facilitate the choice of a specific measure. The provisions of the project are also transferred to the legal act before the previous price agreements concluded in the Tax Order, and they extend the regulations concerning previous price agreements by introducing the possibility for a foreign entity planning to initiate proceedings on this matter in Poland. The procedure for prior price agreements is widely available in many European Union and OECD countries, as well as in non-EU countries. The explanatory memorandum indicates a number of advantages resulting from the introduction of the possibility of prior price agreements, including in particular the possibility to agree on their terms of cooperation between the taxpayer and the tax authority. The issue of both double taxation of profits and prior pricing arrangements requires regulation. This is an important problem, which is why this project should be proceded, but under normal working conditions of the Sejm. It takes time for a detailed analysis of the project, which consists of 125 articles and is very complicated, written in a difficult language, and is designed to serve businesses and tax authorities and must be clear and understandable. Today, at the last meeting before the election, there's a first reading. What's next? When's the committee job? Will there be time for an in-kind and peaceful analysis of what is necessary to pass a good bill? These are serious doubts, but as a club we believe that the bill is needed and should be procedated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u220	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Krzysztof Paszik in the Chamber. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 vis-à-vis the government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of prior price agreements. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the implementation of EU rules. The solutions contained in this submission are rational and necessary solutions, so we are in favour of directing this project to committee work. It is only the question whether today, at the last formal sitting of the Sejm, at least today, the first reading and de facto adoption of this draft law - at least as a result of the timetable - after the elections, this is serious treatment of the case. I'm having second thoughts about whether it really is. It could have been a little earlier or possibly after the election, but of course the Minister will say that we do not like it as an opposition, that we want to stall, and you want to move faster. As regards, in particular, the problem of double taxation, it actually exists and is not, so it is well put in the words, a difficulty in doing business, only often makes it impossible to do business, because if the entity concerned is to pay tax twice, these taxes are often higher than the margin that it achieves from its business activity, and the effect of the margin is income. That's one thing. Secondly, when we were talking about taxes, the Minister pointed out that large entities, and those with a turnover of more than EUR 50 million... This is a bow especially towards them, but also towards smaller entrepreneurs. I, Minister, with a slightly different perspective, would not be such a hurricane from this simple point of view, because as far as the big players are concerned... All the time, the problem is that the construction of the CIT tax itself... This tax is so constructed that if you don't want it, you can not pay it at all. Of course, the tax administrations are chasing entrepreneurs who are trying, as euphemistically put it, to over-optimize. But again, we're talking about some stability and legal certainty here. It is still, in my opinion, a big problem that Polish entrepreneurs often operate on the basis of the interpretation of the post factum of tax regulations, which are post factum interpretations concerning the facts of the past, which may cause tax liabilities to arise for a time when a given entrepreneur was convinced that e.g. there will be no such tax liability. So the real tax mess we have is still a big problem. And one last thing. The Minister mentioned large entrepreneurs, but it is also important to make it clear about those small entrepreneurs who... According to the recent election proposals of the governing party, these entrepreneurs will simply be slaughtered. I'm sorry about the word, but it's hard to say it could be different if the planned increase in income... And this is where you focus, because the increase in employee income is the right direction, but it can't be that while increasing employee income, something in your pocket will try to shave the government. The increase in the minimum wage on this construction we have today results in a nominal increase in tax revenue to the state budget, which will be the beneficiary of which will be the government or, more colloquially, Prime Minister Morawiecki, although of course he in his pocket... [[Poles, Poles.]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Not necessarily Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u222	Mr President, please do not argue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u223	Because we are in favour of a solution in which Poles should make as much of the money as possible... That money should stay in their pockets. Meanwhile, you are proposing a solution in which not only is the net income earned by citizens to increase, but is also expected to increase nominal tax revenue, and ultimately entrepreneurs will pay for all of this. Therefore, we are proposing a consistent increase in the tax-free amount, the amount that is exempt, the amount that people earn and from which they do not have to pay tax. Or go bolder and continue to lower your PIT tax, change the structure of the CIT tax. So much for general remarks. I hope that these comments will eventually be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u224	Thank you very much. The Marshal of the Sejm has called the Senior Convention. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 16 hours 14 min 27]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of prior price agreements. Minister? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] If the Minister... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the substance of the project is the implementation of the European Council Directive 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017. Poland already at the stage of preparing a draft directive at the level of the European Union argued that the matter which is regulated here, to a large extent, is more compatible with the conclusion of an international agreement than the adopted directive. It is a regulation with a high degree of complexity, it raises many practical doubts about how these rules are applied. The process of preparing the project required numerous consultations with the European Commission. The project also required a number of inter-ministerial arrangements. On 23 July this year. European Commission on the basis of Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has made formal allegations in the absence of notification of national implementing measures transposing the Directive into the Polish law. The Directive should be implemented in the national legal order by 30 June 2019. And that's why I'm so... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u226	Thank you very much, Minister. It was, of course, Minister Tadeusz Kościński. Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition to present our position on the governmental draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of previous price agreements, print No 3788. The aim of this project is to implement European Union law and concerns the introduction of a new dispute settlement procedure on double taxation of taxpayers' income and assets in the European Union, in accordance with the European Directive on Double Taxation Dispute Resolution Mechanisms (DRMs). The proposed provisions provide for the introduction of a new dispute resolution mechanism to avoid double taxation. This is a mechanism to ensure uniform rules for the settlement of disputes concerning double taxation of profits within the European Union, as provided for in Directive 2017/1852. It concerns matters arising from the interpretation and application of agreements and conventions providing for the elimination of double taxation of income or assets to which Poland is party. As is apparent from the assumptions that this mechanism will introduce a time and institutional framework and the principles under which the proposal initiating the mutual communication procedure will be adopted and examined, its implementation, the setting up of committees consisting of independent persons, and uniform guarantees for the resolution of the case, interaction with national proceedings and rules for derogation from the procedure will be provided. This mechanism will also benefit individuals and smaller entities within the meaning of Directive 2017/1852. The bill also provides for the possibility for a foreign entity planning to implement an investment in Poland to initiate the APA proceedings, which will create a national entity with which a foreign company will conclude controlled transactions. In that case, the decision will be issued for the national entity. According to the assumptions of the project, it is intended primarily to promote the development of a socially responsible and willing business in Poland with tax obligations in proportion to the scale of the real activity carried out in Poland. At the same time, it is only after the creation of a Polish entity that it is intended to reduce the number of such procedures in the APA case, which will not actually result in the start of investment in Poland. As of July 2020, taxpayers are expected to be able to join the cooperation programme. It follows from the assumption that the aim is to allow for a new form of cooperation between the strategic taxpayer and the head of the KAS based on mutual trust, understanding and transparency, which aims to ensure that the taxpayer complies with tax law with the support of the Head of the KAS. The programme is an innovative form of supervision of the KAS on the regularity of the fulfilment of tax obligations, carried out prior to the submission of the statement, focused on continuous identification or forecasting and solving tax problems in real time or before they occur. High Izbo! Double taxation leads to a deterioration of business conditions and economic efficiency, thereby creating barriers to development in the EU common market. It is therefore important to be a law so that the taxpayer can avoid double taxation in Poland and EU countries. The proposed solutions should have a positive impact on the activities of tax authorities by increasing the voluntary and proper performance of tax obligations by strategic entities. Taxpayers will also be able to reduce the tax risk of their business.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u228	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of prior price agreements to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 14 October 2019. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family, print No 3826. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family (prints No. 3771 and 3826). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family, Basic Print No 3771. The Finance Commission at today's meeting examined this draft law in detail. Two amendments were tabled to this draft - one amendment introduces after the article. 3 additional Article 3a, the second amendment amends the date of entry of certain provisions of that law. After extensive discussion, after consultation with the Legislative Office, both amendments were formally welcomed and adopted by the High Committee. I therefore recommend that the High House adopt this important bill for workers and their families and recommend that it be adopted together with these two amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u230	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Andrzej Noblecht. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u231	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At this morning's meeting, we also had the opportunity to present a position on behalf of our club on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family from Print No.3771. In support of this project we mentioned that it is a very important project for employees, for family members, also for those who joined the Charter of the Big Family, it is a material aid which will also improve the conditions of existence of Polish families in some percentage. That is why we support this project. We also support these two amendments that have been tabled. Amendment in Article 3a relates to the fact that in accordance with Article. 154 of the Act of 27 August 2009 on public finances competent ministers or other directors of budgetary parts shall apply to the Minister of Finance by 30 September for the distribution of special provisions resulting in an increase of expenditure from the budgetary parts of the States whose voivodship is the responsibility, while the Minister of Finance shall allocate special provisions in agreement with the competent ministers or other directors of those parts no later than 15 October. At the same time, in accordance with the Article. 170 of the Act of 27 August 2009 on public finances, changes in the amount of special-purpose grants to tasks contracted to local government units may take place by 15 November of the financial year. Given the timetable for the work of the Sejm and the Senate and the time when the proposed amendments to the Law of 5 December 2014 on the Charter of the Large Family enter into force, it appears that it will not be possible to mobilise the financial resources necessary for the implementation of that Act in the aforementioned. time limits. It is therefore proposed to add specific provisions enabling the Minister of Finance to submit proposals for the mobilisation of funds from the Special Reserve No 15, in which funds were secured for the implementation of tasks under the Large Family Charter Act of 5 December 2014 after 30 September, and to amend after 15 November the plan of the municipality concerning the amount of the special-purpose grant received for tasks contracted in the field of government administration. And this amendment was accepted by the high committee. My club supports this amendment and the second amendment concerning the date of entry into force of the various provisions of this law. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I state that the club will support this important draft law for employees and their families in voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u232	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club towards the government's draft law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. As I said this morning, and unfortunately it hasn't changed much in committee work, the biggest problem I see is that you are a law that works backwards. Because the fact that you have postponed the entry into force of the law without changing the amount of the write-down to the social fund in the new amounts does not change the fact that it will burden budgets or local governments or private sector entrepreneurs or other budgetary units backwards. This is the result because the new rules for the write-down of social funds are to apply from 1 August 2019. And this is actually an unacceptable way of creating law, clearly showing how you treat your partners, which are local governments, other budgetary units or the private sector. We have been paying attention to this problem already at the time of the adoption of this law at the beginning of the year. We said that there was no reason to freeze the thresholds, to freeze the write-off to the social fund when this around budget bill was adopted for this year. Back then, the government didn't see any problem. You did not want to raise the amount of funds from which Poles can draw on holidays under pear, especially poorer families, for various other subsidies and needs. And today you create a law that works backwards, assuming that Nowak or local government in the city, I don't know, Gniezno, Konin, September, Środe, Śremie, must have the money for it and the end. These are not large amounts, but, as we have already pointed out, in some organisations or establishments this will require a general meeting to be convened today, which will have to provide resources in new heights. And it's just gonna be costing and fussing. Make the law so that it is well created so that it is not necessary to return to it. This threshold could really have been set at the level of 2014 at the beginning of this year. It wouldn't hurt anybody. The second thing is the Big Family Card. Of course, if the limit is exhausted, it needs to be completed. And you could also assume a higher amount of it in advance. But I must correct here, sir. The Large Family Card is just a card that entitles you to discounts on various goods and services - and it's nice that she is, she was introduced by your predecessors, the PO-PSL government - for rail trips, culture, sport, etc. It's a lot, but it's a lot of support for families of many children. On the other hand, I do not think that it has anything to do with improving the existence of such a family, because this is an addition to these basic measures often. But, as I say, it's a good thing that it is, and you have to complete this limit as much as possible. What has still caught our attention is that we should simply create this law for the future, as I said, so that we do not have to go back to it so that everyone does not have to get together now, because the fact that we will adopt this law today will actually result in everyone having to change regulations, regulations, rules on granting social funds, or the amount of benefits that are available at their disposal in Poland. Let us make this law really in a more rational way. The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will of course support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Walkowski on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. There's no envoy. Mr Grzegorz Długi on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy either. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. No questions? [[There it is, there it is.]] Mr Andrzej Noblechta wanted to speak. No, not really? However. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm very short. Nevertheless, despite these comments from my colleague, I would like to thank you very much that the High Committee has, however, welcomed this important bill. Maybe not in a large dimension, but, after all, Mrs, even the Large Family Charter is also a help. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I did not say that. I said...]] Even these travel discounts for a large family, however, all this relieves the family's budget. I therefore think that the frostbite of these social fund measures is very positive both by the workers, their families and by the majority of Members, because during the debate we talked about these details, and the Member has made an article about it. Finally, we have adopted this project coherently and for this I want to thank all the clubs, because the structures of different trade unions are also waiting for this change. Therefore, Minister, there have been requests to unfreeze these funds, and I think that this decision of the High House is in line with the expectations of a wide community of workers and family members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u236	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other acts, in print No 3809. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted a report on the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Lesa, print No 3825. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws (prints No 3795 and 3809). I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for first reading on 2 September 2019. The draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator and certain other laws aims to ensure a greater transparency of public life than previously, by extending the scope of the property statements made by the persons listed in the bill. The proposal contained in the draft law is intended to confirm that the origins of the assets obtained do not raise doubts. Furthermore, the designer's intention is to ensure greater consistency in the current regulation in the area of property claims by public office holders. The Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes to extend the scope of the property statements made so far by Members and Senators to include, in addition to information on the personal property and personal property covered by the marital property, information on the personal property of the spouse and the personal property covered by the marital property of the own children, the children of the spouse, the adopted children and the persons living together with the person required to make the declaration. The proposed law assumes that, as is currently the case, declarations of property status of Members and Senators will be made public, but will not disclose information about address data, location of the property and information enabling the mobility of the person making the statement and the persons indicated in the statement, as well as personal data of the Member's spouse or senator, his own children, the spouse's children, adopted children and the person living together with the Member or the Senator. As in the case of declarations on the assets of Members and Senators, the draft law provides for amendments to the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions. It is therefore proposed to extend the scope of declarations of property made by managers of state positions and persons having certain other public functions relevant to the functioning of the State so as to include, in addition to information on the personal property and property covered by the marital property, information on the personal property of the spouse and the personal property and the property of the spouse and the property of the spouses, the children of the spouse, the adopted children and the persons living together with the person required to make the declaration. The draft law provides that the persons listed in the Act will be in addition to the statements made so far concerning the separate property and the property of the spouse and the personal property and the property of the spouse, the children of the spouse, the adopted children and the persons who are in common life with the person required to make the declaration. This will be a separate statement, the model of which will be set out in the annex to the proposed law. The draft law proposes that, in the case of statements relating to the property of the closest persons, the person receiving the declaration shall immediately forward one copy of the declaration to the head of the tax office competent for the place of residence of the person making the declaration. The draft law also proposes an extension of the catalogue of persons whose claims will be made public. The draft law also proposes the introduction of similar regulations for Members of the European Parliament. Following its first reading at its meeting on 5 September 2019, the Rules of Procedure, Parliament's and Immunity Affairs Committee, when eight amendments were tabled, of which six, two negative opinions were positive, and after considering the draft at its meeting on 11 September 2019, asks the High Sejm to accept the draft law submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u238	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was my honor to present my position... But, Marshal, here's a minute to show...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u240	Isn't that enough?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u241	That's enough. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Enough, of course. But that time is running. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws, print No 3795. Since this time is indeed inexorable, I would like to put forward just two points. The first is related to our membership in the Council of Europe and the Group of States Against Corruption - the name of this organisation within the Council of Europe is GRECO. Well, the project, which is a government submission, is actually a reparation to all these monits, all the suggestions that were made by the Council of Europe, by Greco. In these materials, which I have before me, which are generally available and, above all, available to all those who work in the ethics committee, because the content of the statements, especially in this part concerning Members, is the issue of the ethics committee, it is the question of necessity, the need to introduce legal solutions which would oblige parliamentarians to make statements that go beyond the declaration of property related solely to the parliamentarians. GRECO, the Council of Europe points to the need to take into account the wealth, the income of spouses, but also children and when we are dealing with the so-called. property separation. Therefore, it seems that in a situation where these suggestions are so strong, it is appropriate to be glad that the Law Firm of the Prime Minister, that the government has requested changes in this area. I would also like to make it very clear that we are not going as far as international organisations have suggested to include the assets or the income of the parents of the person making the statement in property statements. There are two layers here, and that's the second point I wanted to address. On the one hand, it is about making statements of property by the persons indicated by the bill and taking into account income or wealth of offspring, children, as well as spouses, and on the other hand, what is possible to analyze these statements on the one hand, but on the other hand, real, I would say, wealth or income of people related or related directly to the person making such a statement of property. It will be a very good instrument for verifying all worrying phenomena, such as those concerning the proposals I have before me, which were addressed to the Rules of Procedure by your Marshal of the Sejm, and concerning proceedings which were directed against, among others, the Sejm. Head of Parliamentary Club Civic Platform Sławomir Neumann or - this is the second proposal - Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, Secretary-General of the Civic Platform. It seems that both in one case and in the other case, the introduction of this kind of legal solution would actually make it impossible or would in any case make it more difficult to do the wrong thing that these two parliamentarians of the Civic Platform are accused of. Again, these conclusions are in the Sejm. Mr Neumann made a statement of his consent to criminal liability, and Mr Stanisław Gawłowski also did so in the case of the first proposal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests that the draft amendment to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws be further examined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u242	Thank you. Welcome to the children's gallery from their school. Brother of Aloj Kosiba from Wieliczka. [[Applause]] We're glad we have an audience. The floor will now be taken by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For almost four years my colleagues used words from this place in such situations: scandal, ruining Polish law. And after four years, I'll say PiS-owski standard. This is because at the beginning of what we are doing today is a plot, a huge plot near Wrocław, which was purchased by Prime Minister Morawiecki and which he transferred to his wife's separate property. Once again I wanted to emphasize that there is no provision in Polish law which prohibits Prime Minister Morawiecki or his wife from revealing her separate property. And we'd get it over with. And here's the NPRM led by your Prime Minister who is presenting a draft amendment to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. And great. And once again: as the prizes were, Members, as there are declarations of property, are to be struck again by Members. What's more, in these work today, which I know about on average, because five minutes ago, there was no committee report on the Sejm's pages... The fact that we spent the whole morning on this bill. The attention of the Legislative Bureau was without a few, including the most important one, that after all the amendments adopted by the PiS it is difficult to tell what this bill will eventually look like. Our main charge is that in the form in which this draft law came out of the rule of law, it is an unconstitutional law. Then, after the adoption of this law by the Sejm, it will be possible to refer it to the Constitutional Court and reject it there, so that once again we will have such a situation that the Poles will not know what plot your prime minister owns. We have tried at least to limit this unconstitutionality at the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee. This is true of the fact that in the bill, the children of their own children, the children of their spouses and children were added to the persons whose property should be disclosed without any restriction. And the GRECO, the Council of Europe, writes that these are the children who are in the common household. Mr. Marshal, I'm going to make amendments to this law in every way. It cannot be expected that a Member, a senator, a high civil servant will always and everywhere know the wealth of his adult children, with whom he does not always need to be in contact. The second point is the scandalous amendments that were adopted by the PiS at the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee. Scandalous, because how can it be seen that, theoretically, this law is intended to extend the transparency of the assets of public persons, since the provision is made that the person receiving the statement may decide to include the information contained in the security statement provided for for classified information about the security classification? This means that the decision of one person will not only be able to secrete the statement of property, but also to give it a "reserved' clause. Moreover, when the reporter reveals the information on the property statement, he may be ex officio prosecuted for it because he has violated the state's secret. I also wanted to appeal to the next amendment that we are proposing and which I was upset about not accepting at the committee meeting. I remember how President Lech Kaczyński had trouble at one time because he was very well acquainted with the Polish language and logically thought, namely, so far, in the prints of the property statements in point IX is the wording If others, it means that it is not related to the function for which I make this statement of property. That's what Lech Kaczyński did, he exchanged all his income except for the presidential income. And he was in trouble for that. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u244	All right, sir, that's enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u245	It's about time we cross that kind of illogicality out of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u246	You've gone too far. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u247	Mr. Marshal... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Although at the end of your term, you would have kept at least a minimum of personal culture. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u248	Mr Zgorzelski is not here. Mr Janusz Sanocki. Partyless? No, PP. What is this? PP? [[Restore the Law. Bring back the law and justice.]] Restore the parliamentary law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've seen things before, but I haven't seen this kind of project that forces children, grown-up children, to reveal their property. On what legal basis? These children lead their own lives, may be on another continent, may escape at all, and may not maintain family ties. On what legal basis can the disclosure of children's assets be demanded? And the wives' estate. All of them? After the divorce, too? After a divorce, you also have to disclose your wife's wealth? A lover, I suppose, too, right? All of them? Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say: it's a psychic project. It's just that I'm ashamed of the authors of this project that was brought to the session of the Sejm. You're embarrassing yourselves like that. You're embarrassing yourselves because this is a completely unconstitutional, unreal idea. What does that mean? It means that actually politics and public functions can only be dealt with by people who don't have wives, children. They only have a cat, don't they? [[The president can.]] Well, they only have a cat because the cat doesn't have a fortune. This is an outrageous project. Scandalous. I demand that it be withdrawn at first reading at all. [[But let's add a cat.]] Let's add a cat.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u250	Mr Knock on the forehead and end your speech happily.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u251	Mr. Marshal, why don't you go bang on your forehead with your friends? You're gonna have to bang your buddies 'cause you're out of line. What you've done is an example of legal dumbness.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u252	Don't make a cabaret out of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u253	I demand that this bill be withdrawn. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u254	You make a cabaret out of yourself and, by the way, from the Sejm. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, also not associated. [[You're gonna have to tap your head. You're gonna have to tap your head. What are those lyrics? That's too much.]] Mr Meysztowicz woke up. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the submitted project says one thing. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, I'm talking now. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. President, I'm sorry. The current project shows one thing: we are still living in a theoretical state. Why the tax office, tax checks, REGON base, NIP, if you need paper again, a statement? If anyone commits a crime, the tax authorities have a duty to pursue and draw the consequences, not to look at the paper, whether it's the wife of the Prime Minister, the President or his mistress. It doesn't matter. We create a theoretical state and you perpetuate this theoretical state, even more concrete. I repeat once again: the case is trivial and simple, anyone who violates the law, whether he is a public office or not, is subject to a specific code, and the tax authorities, prosecutions, prosecutors are to act, whether or not it is a dead body. Mr. President Gdansk. I'm asking you why there haven't been any consequences in so many years. Why? [[It wasn't.]] What's the matter with you? Need a new bill, a new property statement? Why? These are just outrageous things. As far as wives and children are concerned, they're not public figures. They are not public persons, they are natural persons. The question arises as to whether natural persons are entitled to privacy, not being public persons and not acting, in the light of current law, publicly. What do they have to do with it? If any property has been saved for a wife or a child, the organs are 10 years old, so even after the government of Prime Minister Moravian authorities will have the right to act. They have the right to act and check property statements, PITs, etc., but you don't do it anyway. You guys don't do it anyway, 'cause unfortunately there's a rule of political correctness: we don't touch our own.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u256	In this way, we have exhausted the list of Members who have been asked to speak. Let's get to the questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. However, before this happens, I would like to welcome the students from the schools in Kormanice and Marcinkowice who are at the gallery listening to our discussions. Welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr Szczerba, the Platform Club, is the first question to be asked by Mr Michał Szczerba. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Marek Owa, also the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem is not the property of parliamentarians' children. The problem is Mateusz Morawiecki's hiding property. We ask where is PLN 30 million, which is shown in reports that Mateusz Morawiecki earned as president of the Western Bank. I ask if Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki invested in a legally questionable real estate trade, or bought, for example. transferred to the parishes State Treasury land that compensates for lost property or bought it for 5% values. The public needs to know if he was involved in this illegal activity. Before Mateusz Morawiecki came to politics, on the eve of the day he signed his estate into his wife and therefore the public needs to know what the property of Mateusz Morawiecki's wife is, where he is, how much he is, what he was invested in. This is what transparency requires in public service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Yeah, but with this bill, sir, we'll know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister's representatives. What's the rush? Minister, what's the rush? It was easy to proceed on this bill, because I would like to point out that in this term of office anyway. It will not enter into force because it has to enter into force only 60 days after signing, or even later, because you have to add vacathio legis. So this haste is definitely unnecessary, and this bill is just a legal bullshit. The Legislative Office has pointed out at almost every point that something is not in accordance with the rules, as well as with the constitution, because it violates the article. 2, Article 47 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) It was all on the rule board. The Legislature Bureau said that this bill may in part be incompatible with the Constitution. This is a legal bubble that should never be prosecuted in the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u260	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, club PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The best thing about PiS is what? The best is the bill, not the antibiotic, the bill. The problem with the land purchased by the Prime Minister - we have a bill, a case in the NBP - we have a bill. The case in the Ministry of Hejtu is already announced a law on ethics on the Internet. Is there gonna be a bill for every PiS thing? If so, then, ladies and gentlemen, in our next term of office, we will not deal with anything but the laws relating to the PiS scandals. You're going this way. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u262	I hope you're not in danger. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. [[And I hope you'll end up not very smart for your comments to the Seym.]] Sure. Mr President, please take your seat in the Chamber. [[With that finger, you can wave, but not here, okay? Mr. Marshal, okay?]] Is Mr Mirosław Suchoń present? Isn't there an envoy in the courtroom? [[Please behave culturally, because it seems that the title of Professor is committed to something.]] Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki. You're welcome. Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[The professor's title requires something. To culture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u263	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u264	You will never learn culture, sir. Now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to respond to the comments made by your marshal that the solution to this problem, as Mr Meysztowicz said, is, in fact, a law that will remove any confusion, any confusion. So you can really look at what you also said, how to react through the letter of the law to the changing reality. It's like one thing. The second very important thing. Here Mr Urbaniak has allowed himself to be quoted. [[A voice from the hall: But you are a marshal?]] Well, that quote actually comes from... but it only applies to property claims made by the head of the Internal Security Agency, the head of the Intelligence Agency, the head of the Military Counterintelligence Service and the head of the Military Intelligence Service. In this case, Indeed, this is a legally protected secret. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u266	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this bill... I think there's no doubt that this is a test. Covering the case of Law and Justice. And it's sad, by the way, that you're using your system of lawmaking to cover your indecencies. I think the voters are gonna judge that. On the other hand, we need to take a very realistic look at these problems today. The only issues we're dealing with when it comes to hiding property are the issues connected with the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. The Prime Minister himself can't explain himself, I'd say, with strange ground operations. The family hasn't been exposed until today, I'd say, on this subject of relocations. Therefore, the public has no knowledge of how these decisions, machinations affect government decisions. Therefore, the question is essential: When we find out what really happened... [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is related to land... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u268	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First question. Is there a provision that prohibits Mr Morawiecki or his wife from revealing Mrs Morawiecka's separate assets at the moment? That's one thing. Secondly, questions to applicants. Why does the submitted project treat the actors unevenly? Why this project does not apply e.g. The U.S. Attorney General, which, as it stands, was... This extension doesn't apply to them. Why have you put in a recipe I've already mentioned, which allows you not only to keep secret, but also to give a non-reserved clause, which means that if someone reveals the property statement of someone like that, your favorite, he will be prosecuted by the public? Why, by extending a statement of property to spouses and children, at the same time concealing, if such a spouse or child of the person making the statement of property, [[♪ The bell ♪]] also makes a statement of property, or is it also... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u270	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szczegielniak will now speak at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator and some other acts aims to ensure greater transparency of public life than has been the case so far and responds to social expectations. Society wants and has the right to have knowledge in this area. Secondly, the project is implemented by the Law and Justice announcements and there is no haste in this regard. The project shall be adopted under a normal procedure. Here I answer the question of the Member: I do not see any haste here. In particular, the proposed provisions provide for an extension of the information contained in the statements of the most important persons in the State to include information on the personal property of the spouse, the own children, the children of the spouse, the adopted children and information on the assets of the persons living together with the person required to make the statement of property. The proposed rules in this area will contribute to greater transparency and transparency and thus ensure constitutional protection of the right of access to public information. I'm pleading with the charges concerning the unconstitutionality of the bill. With all due respect, none of your fellow Members is a member of the Constitutional Tribunal, and in this respect they cannot give an authoritative reply. [[You're gonna have to measure your words.]] It is strange, in such situations, to rely on the unconstitutionality of the laws and the performance in this respect appropriate to that body - the Constitutional Tribunal. Let me remind you that each act uses the presumption of constitutionality. [[But it's not a bill, is it? This is a project.]] It's a bill. [[Then measure your words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u272	But, sir, you had your time. Please don't disturb me. [[And you're the vice marshal, so you should keep an eye on the order in this courtroom.]] You're welcome. [[It's your duty. It's not mine. It's you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u273	Mr President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u274	Mr President, you are interfering with the proceedings. [[I didn't notice.]] And I noticed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u275	Dear Members, With regard to your observations on the disclosure of the assets, I would say that the proposals presented in the draft law are precisely dictated by the need to eliminate any undue suspicions of persons performing public functions and are intended to confirm that the origins of the assets obtained are in no doubt. In my opinion, the government's regulations will therefore contribute to increasing the level of public confidence in those with public functions. Speaking of questions... Actually, there weren't many questions about the bill. As for the term "wife" after divorce, I would like to point out that after the divorce we are no longer dealing with our wife or husband. Are the entities treated unevenly? The right to identify specific entities for which... These entities will have to make a declaration to a large extent. This was the decision made by the government and presented it in this project. In my opinion, there is no question of unequal treatment of entities, because they are persons performing public functions. We could possibly talk about unequal treatment of individuals not performing any public functions. Why is the clause reserved for the Heads of Service? It was an amendment tabled by the Law and Justice Club. In this respect, we're back... We are not yet returning because the bill has not been passed, but we are maintaining the existing legal status, which does not mean that these claims of property cannot be made public. As has been the case so far, if such a decision is taken by the head of specific services, this statement can be disclosed. The question of urgency... One more thing, because I think there's some sort of misunderstanding here. Well, the closest ones mentioned in the Act, so children - their own children, foster children - are married if they have a personal property separate, or those who are living with the person making the declaration are not required to make a statement. This kind of formulation is misleading. A statement of property must be made by certain entities performing such functions and they shall make a statement of property to an extended extent as to the assets of those persons. On the other hand, the persons for whom these statements are made have no responsibility. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[So, what, the prime minister's wife can fold?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u276	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u277	I am glad that we are going one step further in making our public life more transparent. I hope that, in time, we will continue in this direction. I hope that both the Prime Minister, expressing the will of the whole government, and the honourable Members will also work together to introduce solutions such as, for example, in the future. the obligation to make declarations on the absence of bank or deposit accounts abroad by public officials and persons exercising functions on the basis of an election mandate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u278	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and some other laws. The genesis of the above project is extremely simple. A councilman from the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, chosen from the list of the Election Action, purchased a plot from the Church. He bought the lot with his wife, paid 700,000 for it. PLN, and according to experts at the time of purchase it was worth PLN 4 million, and now - PLN 70 million. You might think, a good investment. But the question is, where did he get the money? Why did he pay $700,000 instead of $4 million? Why did you buy it? X, not Mr. Y? How did he know how to buy? It can be assumed that in a country of law with transparency and high ethical standards, the public will be able to answer these questions. This is a misconception. After the ground scandal broke out in the power camp, there was confusion: such a crystal man, such a good man, advisor to Prime Minister Tusk and such a strange purchase of real estate. There's a plan at Nowogrodzka for how to keep things quiet. Today, the effects of this plan are presented in the Seym in the form of a project on the property statements of the wife, children. Maybe there'll be some amendments that extend the subject range to grandkids, maybe grandparents, or maybe an uncle from America? As regards the announcements concerning the disclosure of the property statements, the arrangements to be adopted in the current term of office of the Sejm and to resolve any doubts about the property will apply long after the elections. There was supposed to be instant legislation, this mode a la PiS, 24 hours and a bill passed. What a surprise, everything will be public, of course, so that voters do not know what the other person in the country has. Full transparency, but after the election. The PSL-KP Club will present its position in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u279	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for the presentation of the report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of priest Władysław Gurgach on the 70th anniversary of his death (prints 3724 and 3764). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the commemoration of priest Władysław Gurgach on the 70th anniversary of death, prints 3724 and 3764. On 31 July 2019 the Marshal of the Sejm sent this draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. It is a parliamentary project, a project of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The representative of the applicants is Mrs Barbara Bartus. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 29 August 2019, after introducing minor legislative and stylistic amendments, invites the High Sejm to approve the draft resolution submitted. Thank you very much to all Members who have worked in agreement on this project and to the staff of the Legislative Office. And I particularly thank Barbara Bartus for her commitment to this project. I present the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of priest Władysław Gurgach on the 70th anniversary of his death. Father Władysław Gurgacz, ps. The father, Shem, was born on April 2, 1914 in Jabłonica Polska. He was educated in high school in Krosno and Korczyn, and then joined the Society of Jesus in the Old Village. In 1942, he was ordained priest. From 1945 he was a hospital chaplain in Gorlice and then - with the sisters of the maid in Krynica. During this time he became famous for supporting soldiers of the anti-Soviet uprising and pastoral care of them and for courageous anti-communist sermons and retreat teachings. He was uncompromising in matters of faith and strongly stigmatized the communist regime. In 1947, he joined a branch of the Polish Underground Independence Army and then became his chaplain in the sense of the duty of the soldier's surroundings spiritual care. He made sure that underground workers avoid situations where they would have to use weapons. The branch, whose base was Hala Łabowska in Sądecczyzna, survived until mid 1949, maintaining the sympathy and support of local residents. Father Gurgacz was captured by communists in Krakow in July 1949 after the failed acquisition of a branch held in a state bank. The priest did not attend, but he wanted to share the fate of those over whom he was spiritually caring. During the interrogation, Father Gurgacz opposed the accusations made against him and his conspiracy colleagues. He was not forced to testify incriminating members of the organization. In the last word he said: The current government is not the Polish government, but these are the usurpers sent by the Kremlin. The Military District Court in Cracow sentenced priest Władysław Gurgacz and soldiers of Stefan Balicki's branch, ps. Bylina, and Stanisława Szajna, ps. Eagle, death penalty. They were murdered on 14 September 1949 in a prison in Montelupie, Cracow. Their bodies were placed in Rakowicki's cemetery. On the 70th anniversary of the death of Father Władysław Gurgacz Sejm of the Republic of Poland, appreciating his merits for the Polish people and his contribution to the promotion of patriotism, he pays tribute to this great man and honors his memory. [[Applause]] As I have already mentioned, the Committee on Culture and Media, following 11 votes in favour, with one abstention, recommended that the High House adopt a resolution on the commemoration of Fr. Władysław Gurgach on the 70th anniversary of his death. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u281	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When today, 70 years after his death, we lean over Fr. Władysław Gurgacz admires his determination and courage. In unimaginably difficult times of postwar political turmoil he chose the way of priesthood, and this priesthood understood as service to God, homeland and countrymen. His ministry was uncompromising, guided by a strong inner moral compass. No wonder his charisma attracted crowds of believers. He was ordained priestly in 1942. In the middle of Europe's war activities in the 20th century. He decides to be a priest. It is decided to bring comfort, spiritual support, good news wherever necessary - first in the Gorlice hospital among the sister servants in Krynica, and finally among the anti-communist underground activists. It brings relief, indicates the way, strengthens the faith, but also the feeling of loyalty to the country. This could not please the authorities of that time. After all, after the war, the religion was Marxism, and Stalin was loyal. Fr. Władysław Gurgacz did not hesitate. He did not hesitate when priestly service and the promotion of patriotic values caused trouble and threatened security. He did not hesitate when he had to choose between his life and loyalty to his homeland and those over whom he was spiritually caring. When the prison in Krakow was executed, he was 35 years old. It is this uncompromising attitude in the face of certain death that arouses great respect. Responsibility for words and actions regardless of consequences, concern for another man, understood as accompanying him to the end, to death, arouses admiration and gratitude. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition supports the initiative to commemorate Fr. Władysław Gurgach on the 70th anniversary of his death and will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u283	Is Mr Piotr Babinetz on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice were to be heard by Mrs Barbara Bartus, but for very sad family reasons, he cannot attend the Sejm today. That is why I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to say a few more words about Fr. Władysław Gurgach. Fr. Władysław Gurgacz was chaplain of the Polish Underground Independence Army, so it is necessary, I think, to mention, that the commander of this branch was Stanisław Pióro ps. Emir, a forester, a soldier of the Home Army who became the creator and leader of the Polish Underground Independence Army in 1947. On 13 August 1949, he was ambushed by communist security officers along with 12 soldiers of the Polish Underground Independence Army in the area of Wyżne Ruzbachy in Slovakia. Stanisław Pióro, who was surrounded by Communists, committed suicide. I think it is worth reminding the entire Polish Underground Independence Army, all the conspirators and soldiers of an important formation, which was one of the most important formations during the fight of Poles for independence against the communist invader. It was an important formation of the period of the anti-Soviet Uprising. On the other hand, Fr. Władysław Gurgacz, who was born in Jabłonica Polska on the border of Brzozowo-Krośnieński, walked among others. to schools in Krosno and Korczyn. Later he joined the Society of Jesus in the Old Village of Brzozów. It is indeed one of the largest forms of the anti-communist underground and the anti-Soviet uprising, a man who could be said to be the chaplain of the anti-Soviet uprising. And it is also worth remembering that for 21 years at the beginning of September at the Łabowska Hall in Sądecczyzna the commemoration of Fr. Władysław Gurgach. So that gradually the truth about Fr. Gurgach broke through in Krosnieński, Brzozowski, where the power of communist propaganda lies about Fr. Gurgach was so big that with some such fear, you can say, inhabitants and significant figures bordering Krosnieńsko-Brzozowski began to tell the truth about Fr. Gurgach. But there was already a plaque in Kombornia, and in recent years there was a great ceremony in Jabłonica Polska and Fr. Władysław Gurgacz has been restored to the collective memory of the inhabitants of Podkarpacie. As I said, this is one of the largest forms of the anti-Soviet uprising, the anti-communist uprising. The Law and Justice Club strongly supports this resolution, thanking Barbara Bartus once again. I think the High Sejm should unanimously adopt a resolution on the commemoration of Fr. Władysław Gurgach. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15, now has the floor. There's no envoy. One Member, Mrs Anna Paluch, came to the question. You're welcome. One minute. At the same time, I close the list of people who have been asked questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u286	Thank you very much, Marshal. My question will be rhetorical. But first I would like to thank the Committee on Culture very warmly for taking this initiative and commemorating Fr. Gurgach. A person so defamed, Fr. Gurgacz, chaplain, and soldiers of the Polish Underground Independence Army not only survived the civilian death, were convicted by a communist court in the parody of the trial, they were just lied and insulted by their memory. Therefore, I would like to thank the Committee of Culture very warmly for taking up the subject and I would like to say that we still have many years to fight for the memory of our heroes. A. Gurgacz saw his first plaque in 1991, commemorating him and his soldiers in the church of St. Anthony in Krynica. And it's not anyone else just sleep. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, later President of the Republic of Poland, unveiled this plaque [[♪ The bell ♪]] September 1991. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u287	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u288	So one question: How much longer do we have to fight for the honor and memory of our heroes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u289	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u290	The last words of sleep. Fr. Władysław Gurgacz, quoted in the proposed resolution, would like to dedicate in particular to those who expressed the joy of the unwarranted decisions of the court, restoring in Warsaw the names of the streets which often refer directly to the grim figures implanted in the devastated war and occupation of Poland by Stalin and his beastly servants. Maybe someone will hear the words of a steadfast priest who, at the time of his death, has spoken the truth in his entire life.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u291	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on Trade Inspection (prints No. 3522 and 3784). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Trade Inspection Act. The draft is contained in print No 3522, and the committee's report is in print No 3784. The project was aimed at first reading in the above mentioned. committees on 12 June of this year. On 16 July, the joint committees carried out the first reading of the project and on 29 August the project was worked in detail. The result of the work of the two committees is the printing report No 3784 presented here. High Izbo! The public opinion calls for decisive action on air protection. It is obvious that we all want to live in a clean environment, maintain health and good health. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union relating to the omissions of previous governments in 2008 The current government's response to these challenges is the government's clean air programme, implemented since September 2018, involving serious public resources in the thermomodernisation of buildings and, above all, providing them with low-carbon energy sources. It is therefore necessary to do everything possible to ensure that this money is spent efficiently and intentionally so that dishonest traders cannot mislead the buyers of boilers by offering them those which do not comply with the applicable standards. It is estimated that about 200,000 are sold annually in Poland. solid fuel boilers having a rated thermal input of not more than 500 kW. Therefore, the provisions in this respect should be sufficiently tight and should allow effective verification of their application by the competent administrative authorities. High Izbo! On 1 August 2017, a regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance on requirements for solid fuel boilers was issued. They were issued on the basis of the provisions of Article. Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Environmental Law Act. This regulation entered into force on 1 October 2017 and limited the possibility of introducing boilers not complying with the standards of issue on the Polish market. Enforcement of the emission standards for solid fuel boilers is a problem not only in Poland but also in other countries of the European Union, since the case is governed by Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/1189 of 28 April 2015 implementing Directive 2009/125/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards ecodesign requirements for solid fuel boilers. This Commission regulation will be applied directly throughout the European Union from 1 January 2020 and the boilers will then be examined under the provisions of the Conformity Assessment System Act. High Izbo! The Polish regulation of 2017, already mentioned by me, as I said, limited the possibility of introducing boilers that did not meet the standards of emissions to our market, but did not eliminate them. It turns out that more than 20% of the boilers offered for sale - and this is data after the provisions of the 2017 Regulation have been introduced. - does not meet the emission requirements. As you can see, regulations usually try to keep up with the ingenuity of market players directed at avoiding these regulations. Even the amendment of the 2017 Regulation sealing its provisions has proved insufficient. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the freedom of movement of goods guaranteed by European Union law causes low-quality boilers to be imported into Poland from the countries of the European Union, Iceland and Norway, which are party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, and Turkey. The restrictions resulting from our 2017 regulation apply only to Polish producers. Thus, without statutory provisions, imports of boilers which do not meet the standards cannot be reduced. It is necessary to introduce provisions that enable solid fuel boilers with a capacity of up to 500 kW to check compliance and to impose administrative penalties for non-compliance. High Izbo! This draft law contained in print No 3522 amends the Environmental Law and the Commercial Inspection Act. In environmental law, first of all, in art. 172a a definition of a solid fuel boiler with a rated thermal input of not more than 500 kW and a definition of the placing on the market of a solid fuel boiler with a rated thermal input of not more than 500 kW shall be introduced. Besides, in the following article. 168b provisions are introduced requiring the authorities of the Trade Inspection to carry out checks on operators placing solid fuel boilers on the market with the aforementioned power to comply with the provisions of the Regulation. Further provisions restrict, in fact, allow the placing on the market of solid fuel boilers which do not comply with the requirements of the Regulation from other countries of the European Union, from countries which are parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and Turkey. Provisions are also introduced to allow administrative traders to impose fines for the placing on the market of boilers not complying with the requirements of the Regulation. These are the changes contained in the article. 1 relating to the Environmental Law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 There is one amendment to the Trade Inspection Act of 15 December 2000. The checks referred to in Article shall be added to the inspection obligations. Article 168b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Art. 3, 4 and 5 contain transitional provisions and in Article. 6 a maximum limit is set for the expenditure of the State budget allocated to the implementation of the tasks arising from the present law in the years 2019 to 2028. The limit was set at 9 million PLN, i.e. 900 thousand PLN each. Each year, and this appropriation will be used to finance the cost of laboratory tests on controlled boilers. An additional 30 inspections are foreseen and, as the regulations say, two copies per inspection. Therefore, verification of documentation, verification of compliance with the required parameters, compliance of the data plate with laboratory test results, certificates, etc. will be carried out. Art. 7 of the draft provides that the law shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, except for a provision conferring a new wording of the Article. 172a Environmental law. There are certain definitions that I've already mentioned. This Article shall enter into force on 1 January 2020. High Izbo! The overall report of the combined economic and environmental committees was adopted by 25 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. This result of the vote is that we are rather dealing with a universal agreement on the sealing of the law, which will cause consumers not to be exposed to defective articles, that this great financial effort which the Polish state has made to support citizens, property owners in obtaining emission-free or low-carbon heat sources will not be wasted. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, please adopt the draft law contained in the report of the Joint Committee in print No 3784. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u293	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Gosievski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u294	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the printed report no.3784 on the government draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Trade Inspection Act, print no. 3522. The entry into force of the provisions covered by the Act will increase the effectiveness of the system of monitoring compliance with the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister of Development and Finance of 1 August 2017 on requirements for fuel boilers, inter alia. by entrusting this task to the Trade Inspection bodies, together with providing them with adequate financial resources for its implementation in the field of specialised testing of solid fuel boilers. This will allow for effective checks on the compliance by operators placing solid fuel boilers on the market with a rated heat output of at least 500 kW with the requirements of the Regulation. In the event of failure to comply with these rules, those rules will allow the Trade Inspection bodies to restrict the placing on the market of equipment and allow administrative fines to be imposed. Since currently Polish producers are subject to requirements which are significantly stricter than foreign producers, the project introduces a provision to limit the placing on the market of solid fuel boilers in the country with a rated heat output of not more than 500 kW which do not meet the requirements of the Regulation, by all operators, including those from other countries. The combustion of fuels in high-carbon solid fuel boilers results in very harmful emissions of particulate matter and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons to the health. Dust about the PM10 fraction causes cough, difficulty breathing and shortness of breath, especially during exercise. They contribute to increased risk of respiratory infections and exacerbations of symptoms of allergic diseases, e.g. asthma, hay fever and conjunctivitis. The introduction of the proposed provisions will allow for sealing of the control system on the application of the rules governing the marketing of solid fuel boilers, and this in turn will contribute to the effective enforcement of the rules aimed at reducing air pollution emissions from the municipal and domestic sectors. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in accordance with the committee's 3784 report, supports the Government's draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Trade Inspection Act, the original print No 3522, together with the amendments I tabled. In order to clarify the provisions of the bill and to reduce air pollution emissions on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I make five amendments to the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u295	Thank you. Mr Michał Stasiński will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I would be careful with accusations cast against my predecessors and boasting about the way in which the program was implemented, putting in place clean air. I would like to remind you that this programme has unfortunately received a very negative opinion from the European Union and is threatening to suspend the funds for this programme which the Union was supposed to provide. [[You're wrong again, sir. You are deeply mistaken, sir.]] The problem was that you based this program on two legs. Unfortunately, these are the legs that are best placed on the ground of your actions, i.e. centralization and bureaucracy. Only the changes to this programme proposed by the Union will make this programme really effective. With regard to the substantive layer of the bill submitted, the solutions submitted, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition, I state that we do not comment and we will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u297	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. There is no Member. Mr Józef Brynkus on behalf of the Kukiz club15. There's no envoy, either. But we have a question. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Ministry to clarify the issue of the kilns, because the state seems to be inefficient so far, but... There are mentioned individual pieces of these furnaces, so-called. Cinderellas, while even here, the Member confirmed that about 20% equipment on sale are such devices, such furnaces that do not meet any modern requirements. So the de facto conversion of these cinderellas results in a new furnace, a new cinder, being installed for the support measures, and it doesn't improve air quality. [[That it's not?]] And now the question to the ministry. I speak in the interest of the inhabitants of my region: Bielska-Biała, Żywca, Pszczyny, Cieszyna, Czechowice-Dziedzic, or region, which is one of the most polluted places in Poland in terms of air quality. Will the Ministry be in this regard? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was taking some steps...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u299	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u300	...so that this change of furnaces actually results in...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u301	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u302	...to improve air quality and eliminate cinderellas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u303	Welcome to the gallery of young people from the parish of St. St. Jack in Gliwice-Sośnica and young people from Knurów. [[Applause]] It came at the invitation of Mr Jarosław Goncier. Welcome. And now Mr Gosiewiski has the floor, who is asking the question. The Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u304	Dear Marshal and Dear Minister, For many years, even then, when I was here in the Seym, much was said about smog, about air quality, and in my opinion nothing has been done so far. This isn't for the current government... In particular, the Clean Air programme, which is so criticised by the opposition, is the only chance that air quality will definitely improve. And the question to the Minister is, have there ever been any attempts to solve this problem before? Has such a programme, as is currently being implemented under the Clean Air Programme, ever been implemented? And whether this programme will actually contribute to a decisive improvement [[♪ The bell ♪]] Air quality in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u305	Thank you very much. The answer will now be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr Marek Niebżak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I think it'll be easier for me to answer the second question first. It's very specific. No, there have not been such programs as the Clean Air programme at the government level so far. There have been only some programs, say, local, local, but at government level of this type of activity, such programs have not been present so far. On the other hand, as for the second question, I would say this: I honestly do not have accurate statistics with me at this point, how many kilns have already been mentioned thanks to this program, but these are not individual pieces. I think we're talking about hundreds or thousands on the market, which covers 150,000. It's a year's worth of art. So this is obviously also a challenge from us, I'm not hiding it. On the other hand, it is not that these measures are bought at this point in time for furnaces which do not comply with these new requirements. The new requirements are already set out in the law, while what we are doing here is strengthening supervision. I would like to make this clear here. These requirements are already in the law and the program works, it is implemented in accordance with that law. We're just strengthening surveillance here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u307	Thank you very much. I'm still the committee's rapporteur. Please, Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the vote in favour of the bill. On the other hand, it is necessary to verify those false statements that have been made. It is not that we are in danger of stopping the funds, because, as you should know, the Clean Air programme is being run through national funds in the first years of operation and only in the next financial perspective will we try to finance it from EU funds. So they don't take anything away from us because we're running it with national resources. As you can see, the government's policy, which does not escape budget revenue, allows us to finance such programmes. And the second thing you've already said to the Minister. It is not possible to install a boiler from the programme, which does not meet the requirements, because it is simply implemented from the level of voivodship environmental funds and it is strict control, verification of all the activities which the beneficiaries of the programme undertake before financing. Rather, the bill we are adopting will protect citizens from taking such a risk that they will buy a boiler in good faith, lied to by the producer, and then there will be problems with settlement under the programme. This is what we have to do by law. And let me remind you that the program is being expanded. 300 municipalities already support this programme. We facilitate its implementation in such a way that the application and settlement of the programme goes faster. So that all these issues, which concern specific rules, are designed to protect citizens from buying custom boilers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u309	Thank you very much. The list of Members has been exhausted and the question of the answer has also been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u310	Minister! Is the proposed regulation enough to stop the sale of non-compliant boilers if the seller is located abroad and only the delivery takes place in the country? At a time of globalisation, many sectors and many regulations are affected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u311	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the Sports Act (Prints No. 3388 and 3691). I ask Mr Mieczysław Baszka to submit a report to the committee. There's no envoy? There it is. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft Sports Act, print no.3388. The aim of the project is to introduce solutions enabling the applicant to establish a Polish sports association by adding to the relevant application a certificate of membership of the international sports federation not necessarily recognised by the International Olympic Committee, included in the list attached to the regulation issued by the Minister. The Commission also accepted amendments concerning, inter alia, the power of the Minister responsible for physical culture to award in particularly justified cases an additional monetary prize to persons who, as a result of disqualifying other players for doping in sport, have gained a better place than the place for which they have already been awarded. The Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meetings on 12 June and 18 July 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt the abovementioned legislation. draft law, print no.3388. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u313	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Kazimierz Moskal on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour and honor to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Sports Act, print no.3388. The draft law deals with the introduction of solutions enabling the applicant to establish a Polish sports association by adding to the relevant application a certificate of membership of the international sports federation not necessarily recognised by the ICE, included in the list attached to the regulation issued by the Minister. The mandate of the Minister responsible for physical culture is increased by introducing the possibility for the Minister to issue, by means of a regulation, a list of international sports federations. The solution to the problem has a positive effect on the so-called. non-Olympic sports. The Minister responsible for physical culture through the regulation will be able to determine, taking into account the particularly active participation in the doping system, by having a current agreement with the World Anti-Doping Agency WADA, taking into account the extent of the activities of the entity concerned, the popularity and level of the sport concerned, the list of international federations operating in other sports than organisations in the MCC. The proposed solution also includes the obligation of the Minister responsible for physical culture to be removed from the list of international sports federations, where the MKOl has officially recognised another international sports federation operating in the same sport or where the international sports federation no longer meets certain conditions. It is worth noting that non-Olympic sports are very popular, such as jujitsu, kendo, kickboxing, bodybuilding, fitness, strength triathlon. The project was also assessed by the Polish Olympic Committee and the Polish Paralympian Committee. These entities did not submit comments on the project. It should be noted that the non-Olympic sports communities welcomed the proposed legal solutions presented in the draft law. The Polish Committee of Non-Olympian Sports, an association of representatives of non-Olympian sports, also presented a positive report on the project. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to say that we are pleased that the government's draft Sports Act has appeared and that non-Olympic sports will have an opportunity of equal treatment. The Law and Justice Club welcomes him and will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Raś, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I wanted to present our position on the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the government draft law amending the Act on Sport, print No. 3691. The report was submitted by the rapporteur to the committee. All I can say is that this amendment concerns the amendment of the Act of 25 June 2010, the Sports Act, which was of fundamental importance, amended the current formula for financing and supporting sport and gave Polish sports unions, including, in short, recognised by the International Olympic Committee, a special status: monopoly, taking into account also the importance of these sports for the promotion of Poland, for fans in Poland and for physical culture, because they are the most popular sports. They can encourage Poles to play sports. Our reservation is that this philosophy is being destroyed by these point amendments. We think it would be better to write a new Sports Act, opening up a very wide range of support for sports associations, rather than interfering pointlessly, changing the philosophy of this law, which was our idea. She was changed in 2015, she did not raise any doubts, she was then adopted by an overwhelming majority of the High Chamber's votes, because sport combines, because sport should be discussed. To be honest, we do not understand this philosophy of discretion, which is given to the minister to introduce into the catalogue of Polish sports unions these monopolists, those who are especially supported, in a random and chaotic manner. We believe that this may be done under some sports association that has lurked out certain regulations in talks with the Minister. We shouldn't be the law. In 2015, as draftsman of the committee and as then ministry, we proposed that, in the course of further possible work on these laws, which concern sport, perhaps create a provision on the so-called. register B, i.e. sports associations, which are also important and can be better financed from the budget of the Ministry of Sport. And that's what all of this is going to be about in the end. So the B-book was left out for four years. Nobody was working on it, because then we would be dealing with the affairs of all these non-Olympic sports associations, sports unions, which today operate under only and exclusively the rules on associations. So it would be fair, it wouldn't be discretionary, it wouldn't be chaotic. We therefore make an amendment, however, in order to remove those provisions which concern, in general, the discretion of the Minister. In the course of the work, at the last meeting where the report was adopted, there were also three amendments which were accepted by the committee, by a parliamentary majority, while at the veto of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, which said that these were provisions which go beyond the original submission, and these are not constitutional amendments. Therefore, we cannot, even though we could lean on them in substance, but we cannot accept this type of lawmaking and these amendments introduced at the last meeting of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, which adopted the final report, nor can we support and request that they be deleted. We can't be the law. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I submit, Mr. Marshal, a list of six amendments to the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u317	Mr Maciej Masławski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Sports Act, print no. 3691. I ask you to introduce an additional condition which would enable operators who do not so far fulfil the condition of belonging to the international sports federation operating in Olympic or Special Olympic sports or other recognised by the International Olympic Committee to apply effectively for the creation of a Polish sports union, we consider it a necessary and important solution. It is also important for us that the applicant for the consent of the Minister of Sports and Tourism to establish a Polish sports union will be able to attach to the relevant application a certificate of membership of the international sports federation, not necessarily recognised by the MKOL, included in the list attached to the regulation issued by the Minister. In addition, this draft law obliges the Minister of Sport and Tourism to remove from his international sports federation list when MKOL officially recognises another international sports federation operating in the same sport or when the international sports federation ceases to fulfil certain conditions, so-called. The principle of the primacy of recognition by the MKOL, I think it's good too. In conclusion, the application for a Polish sports association submitted to the Minister for Sports and Tourism should now be accompanied by a certificate of membership of the international sports federation operating in Olympic, Paralympian or other international sports federation recognised by the International Olympic Committee. However, there is a large group of well-organized sports unions operating primarily in non-Olympic sports, not in the Olympic Games programme, which do not belong to international sports federations recognised by MKOL and therefore cannot obtain the status of the Polish sports association. The proposed legislation proposes a solution to this problem, to which the Kukiz15 club agrees. On the other hand, I will also agree with my previous speaker that the way in which these amendments have been adopted raises many reservations. At the Kukiz Club15 we will consider acceptance issues, and we will also look at those amendments that have just been tabled, because the Office of Sejm Analysis actually pointed to the unconstitutionality of these amendments. The idea of the project itself is good. On the other hand, we believe that this is not how the law should be done. It is difficult for us today to say clearly that we are signing this project. I'm sure we're not against that. On the other hand, I have recently heard on the radio that during this term of the Sejm we have created a lot of new rules, unfortunately, qualitatively they are weak. And that's a little bit of an example of this rule, because the idea isn't bad, at least from our point of view, but the form in which it is. We did, and whether, in fact, as Mr Raś said, does it not serve any association, some sports group, which may have been leaving, has imposed such regulations... We believe that it is not so that the applicant had honest and good intentions and it was after consultation. We have also consulted with various sports communities and we believe that the provisions of this law will solve many problems, while the amendments that have been tabled will certainly bend over and we will look at them carefully. Of course, if they're good, we'll support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u319	Thank you. Two Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Ms Teresa Wargock, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u320	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Platform Member called for the 2010 Act. It was after the Sejm's adoption of this law that sports unions applied to the court road with the Minister of Sport for decisions concerning matters which had been changed. In this connection, many sports associations, which are in international organizations, have huge successes, have thousands of players, felt hurt by this law. Today is an attempt to fix this situation. I wanted to ask the Minister, because the way of regulation is adopted by regulation: How long have you been assuming since the adoption of the bill that the President's signature could be considered? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u321	Thank you. The next question is asked by Mr Ireneusz Raś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister, of course. Minister, do the government support the amendments tabled at the meeting where the committee report was adopted? Because as much as we can argue about the philosophy of this law, whether these proposals should be adopted or not, the imposition of these three amendments in an unconstitutional manner will be shadowed by the whole legislative process of the State of submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Widera will now reply to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I am very sorry that the draft of such a good amendment of the law, which Polish sports unions expected, the whole environment, will not be able to be adopted in this term. [[That was the tempo. You should have sprinted.]] To answer your question, I will say this: of course, it is time to define, prepare the Minister's regulation and I think it will be such a pace that in the first year it may be about five proposals for the creation of new sports relationships, and in the following years it may be about 1 or 2 sports unions. Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot talk about discretion when it is necessary to meet clearly and clearly defined criteria, requirements, standards, the signing of agreements with the World Anti-Doping Agency. So it's not like somebody's gonna come up with something tonight and it's gonna be decided tomorrow. All of this, the criteria that must be met, will be clearly and clearly enshrined in the Minister's Regulation. I'm a little surprised someone's saying that we're gonna somehow manipulate these sports relationships. We are talking above all about strong sports relationships, as you said, winning medals in the world championships, as is the case with jujitsu unions, bodybuilding and many others. Well, that's the situation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u325	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the rapporteur of the committee still want to speak? Mr Mieczysław Baszko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Surely everyone cares about the welfare of sport, physical culture, especially as each Member has great experience in terms of physical culture and sport. The amendments that were introduced certainly did not condone the good name of sport, physical culture, because I can quote that for years the various sports disciplines that have been cultivated in Poland were excluded that they were not in the register of the International Olympic Committee or the Polish Olympic Committee. And all the time, the Polish Olympic Committee has been working to get them there. Why am I talking about this? Because I work on the committee of the Polish Olympic Committee for a second term. I wasn't an envoy yet, and that's where I worked. So that for my part, also as a representative of the committee, I honestly said that there was no objection. Of course, there were reminders, time was running out. Because it's important to remind you that for eight months... This law came in, the legislative process started and these amendments were presented at the last meeting in July, probably on 18 July. And there was no objection that as a club, as president... Mr Rutnicki held a meeting, a meeting and there was no He prefers to report it to all of us, all of us, all of the members of the committee. It is great to wonder that now we want to show through sport, for the fact that Poles achieve very good sports results in the international arena... Here we should very quickly decide to convene a committee - today, Mr President, Mr President - and continue to proceed on this matter if we are to help Polish sport. After all, the amendments to the Sports Act clearly indicate that it is the Minister responsible. What minister? It is known that from physical culture and sports. Let me remind you that, among other things, associations of particular sports expect that this law will finally be introduced. And it's not that we've been going on since June or July because it's been going on for eight months. And as far as international sports associations are concerned, sportsmen... I'm gonna keep saying this, and I know it was agreed by our club and every sports club we represent at the committee meeting. After all, this is also about the additional amendments that have been made regarding the award of prizes. It is also the minister responsible, especially in special cases, if doping has been proven, and we all agree that for doping you must punish athletes... [[(PL) Mr President, formally.]] I answer as rapporteur that we, however, are not divided in this case... [[She doesn't.]] ...only that at the last minute the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition stated that unconstitutionally... [[It was the Legislative Bureau who said so.]] This Sports Act is not contrary to EU law. That, too, needs to be mentioned. [[You can't write a bill at a committee meeting.]] [[You can be decent.]] I think, however, that those athletes who eventually jumped to a higher place as a result of others taking doping should be compensated. In those governments, when different parties ruled... 'Cause it's been coming in since 1996. [[And that's a yes.]] See how wonderful it is that as a committee of physical culture and sport we finally appreciate these disadvantaged athletes. For fighting, they showed patriotism that the Polish anthem was played on international arenas and were proud that they had eagles on their breasts. For my part, as rapporteur, I call on my fellow Members, for the sake of state, for Polish sport, to convene a committee as soon as possible, even today, and to discuss the amendments once again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u327	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. In the absence of the rapporteur at the next point, as well as the absence of the representative... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, [[Sorry, it's the next one.]] ...unfortunately, he's just getting to the Sejm. We need to take a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 21 hours 16 min 39]] Resume session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act (Print No 3813). I ask Mr Ireneusz Gain to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u328	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the group of Members of the Law and Justice, I shall submit and present a draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 3813. In the Act of 6 December 2008 on excise duties, I request amendments to the Article. 105 on excise duty on passenger cars. Thus, the 2014 European Union Directive 94 imposed an obligation on Member States to develop a national framework for the development of alternative fuels infrastructure. This document sets out a strategy for the development of the market and infrastructure for alternative fuels in transport. In line with the requirements of Directive 94 of 2014 and the forecasts for the development of the alternative fuels market in Poland, the document sets targets for infrastructure for charging electric vehicles, filling with natural gas of vehicles and bunkering of marine natural gas. At the same time, the National Policy for the Development of Alternative Fuel Infrastructures identified complementary measures to stimulate the development of low-carbon transport not directly related to alternative fuels infrastructure, but fulfilling the requirement of at least partial replacement of oil-based energy sources. The document indicated the possibility of using alternative hybrid vehicles as one of the means of developing the market for alternative fuel vehicles, indicating a reduction in excise duty rates as a means of achieving this objective. This regulation implements the provisions of the National Policy Framework for the Development of Alternative Fuel Infrastructures in this respect. The Development of Electromobility in Poland, a strategic document adopted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2017, identified a number of barriers to the development of electromobility. It has been found that it is equally important in the context of supporting the construction of alternative fuels infrastructure to simultaneously promote the entire electromobility ecosystem, including in particular the creation of incentives for buyers of alternative fuels vehicles and manufacturers of such vehicles. This ecosystem will not function properly if, with the development of infrastructure and the increase in vehicle supply, promotion of their use is not increased, which will contribute to strengthening public awareness of the shift to low- and zero-carbon transport models. It is foreseen that the creation of an electromobility ecosystem will be a long-term process, which must take into account existing barriers in Poland. The identified problems arise not only from the current stage of market development, but in many respects from its actual shortcomings or too slow development in view of the needs and objectives of promoting the use of alternative fuels in transport. In addition, it is desirable to introduce additional instruments to reduce carbon monoxide emissions from the transport sector, with the need for this, inter alia. in Poland's energy policy by 2030 and European Union documents, a significant reduction in carbon monoxide emissions. The Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels introduced a catalogue of zero- and low-carbon vehicles related directly to the use of infrastructure prepared for these fuels, i.e. an electric vehicle, a hybrid vehicle, powered by hydrogen and powered by natural gas. A hybrid vehicle is defined as a vehicle within the meaning of Article. 2 point 33 of the Law of 20 June 1997 on road traffic with internal combustion and electric power, in which electricity is accumulated by connection to an external power source. According to the objective of this regulation, the definition is limited only to the plug-in model. However, the most accessible group of low-carbon vehicles on the Polish market are hybrid diesel-electric vehicles, where electricity is not accumulated by connecting to an external power source. Market data indicate that around 90,000 registered in Poland. this type of vehicle and that this segment of the market offers significant opportunities to significantly reduce emissions from car transport and further stimulate the gradual transition to a greater market share for zero-emission vehicles. Increasing the number of these vehicles in the transport sector will have a positive impact on speeding up the process of improving air quality in Poland, in particular in reducing emissions of nitrogen oxides and carbon. Therefore, the implementation of the limited support provided for these types of vehicles within the National Development Policy Framework and Alternative Fuel Infrastructures and the Development Plan for Electromobility in Poland is fully justified. The existing instruments in this area introduced by the electromobility Act provided for temporary exemption from excise duty on hybrid vehicles. The proposed provisions complement this instrument. They are introduced in order to accelerate the desired market developments and to adapt the appropriate measures to the characteristics of hybrid technologies. The powertrain in hybrid electric vehicles is predominantly based on high power electric units and associated high-heat efficiency engines to a lesser degree of compression and lower operating temperatures. Such a propulsion system ensures a significant reduction in emissions of harmful substances. The current regulation did not take into account the specificities of these drives and was a barrier to the development of the low-carbon drive market in this area. The proposed amendment is also implemented by the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers on the measures necessary to take in view of the existence in a significant area of the country of high concentrations of air pollutants from January 2017, which included the use of tax mechanisms to introduce incentives for low-carbon transport, including a low excise duty rate for hybrid cars. The proposed provisions amend the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008. This is a 50% reduction in the rate of this tax for hybrid diesel-electric vehicles where electricity is not accumulated by connecting to an external power source. As regards motor vehicles within the meaning of Article. 2 point 33 of the Law of 20 June 1997 on road traffic, i.e. hybrid combustion-electric cars in which electricity is not accumulated by connection to an external source of power, with an engine capacity higher than 2000 cm3 but not higher than 3500 cm3, a reduced rate of 9,3% is proposed excise duty. In vehicles up to 2000 cm3 this rate is proposed at 1,55% the taxable amount of excise duty. This solution is consistent with the total exemption from the tax of zero-emission electric vehicles in force and maintained in force. According to the projector, the change will improve the use of low-carbon vehicles and help to promote and accelerate market transformation towards further development of the market for alternative fuel vehicles, and consequently to reduce emissions of harmful substances and improve air quality in Poland. The Act also has a limited impact on the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The automotive industry is a strategic branch of Polish production due to its size. Automotive production facilities are located all over Poland. They are not only centres of local entrepreneurship but also generate many high-quality jobs both in the direct production of vehicles, parts and components, as well as in their surroundings. An important part of the production of automotive components is done by domestic small and medium-sized enterprises. Increasing the popularity of low-carbon drives can lead to the development of a new, innovative production and service environment. The inclusion of Polish producers in the production of components of modern alternative drives would contribute to technology transfer and increase the position of the domestic industry in global value chains. As regards the impact of the bill on the public finance sector, the precise impact of this regulation on the revenue of the state budget remains difficult to estimate. However, it is assumed that there is no impact on the revenue of the budget due to the shift in demand within the same vehicle lines. Hybrid combustion-electric vehicles in which electricity is not accumulated by connection to an external power source for technological reasons require a higher engine capacity with similar power and significantly reduced emissions. However, the current higher excise duty rate significantly reduces the demand for such cars despite much lower emission footprints. Therefore, it is expected that by lowering the excise duty on hybrid diesel-electric vehicles, despite higher prices, they will be as attractive in the long term as those with classic combustion vehicles due to reduced fuel consumption. This will shift market interest towards hybrid combustion-electric vehicles where electricity is not accumulated by connecting to an external source of power and equalising the revenue of the budget while reducing emissions of harmful substances in transport. My draft law is in line with European Union law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Given that this draft law has a significant impact on the environment in such a way that the increase in the popularity of hybrid drives and the increase in the market share of such vehicles will result in a reduction in emissions, and that the solutions proposed in it are in line with European Union law and with the strategic documents I have mentioned, presented by the Council of Ministers, also with regard to national transport policy, and also with a plan for the development of electromobility in Poland, I very much ask the High House to support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u329	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. But before I open the discussion, I would like to welcome the ladies from the circles of rural hostesses from Niegowa, Sokolnik, Bliżyc, Przybynow and Wysokie Lelowska, who arrived at the invitation of Mr Mariusz Trepka. I also wanted to welcome the inhabitants of Tulishkov from the Turkish district. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Piotr Cieślinski. There isn't. But I see Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u330	Hello, Marshal. Welcome to the gallery, everyone. Hello, Minister. Welcome to the applicant. You can see the interest in electromobility, your marshal. There were supposed to be a million cars. We remember, Mr. Profit. Today, we need to step back and move on to other solutions. There were supposed to be a million Polish cars. It was supposed to be our production. Mr President, we remember how we fought for this, how we supported it. And where are the cars? The question is, where are these cars of Polish production, and if not Polish, then foreign, so-called. Electrics. But where am I going with this? Those electricians won't be around much longer. I don't know if they ever will be. And if they do... I'm sure we'd like them to be Polish, but so far there's no indication that they're going to be Polish. When the so-called law was being processed here. Electricians, electric cars, we pointed out that an electrician, an electric car, would be a full electrician if he were... The point is to reduce pollution. Then some people said, "Oh, yeah, an electric car, but energy from coal." We need to burn coal, to pollute the environment, to support the industry of higher technologies that will give us electric cars. It's kind of nonsense, 'cause when you go to electricity, it's green energy, renewable energy. That's what I was paying attention to at the time. Today, all of a sudden, he shows up - I know it's due. Mr Profiti, because he lobbied for it in a positive way all the time, and I supported that too - the proposal to include hybrids. Why were these subsidies in the form of excise duty reduction not to be covered? They said, "No, because we're going to have electrics, because electrics are both. It will save our industry, it will develop industry. Suddenly it turned out - Mr Gaina rightly pointed out in his introduction, in his information, that there is no need to look at electricity. You have to respect what is, what is developing, and what is already functioning. At that time, amendments were tabled to include hybrids in the reduction of excise duties. The government insisted, said no, because it would harm the whole idea of clean environment, reducing pollution. And now you have to admit it. I wonder if, at the moment, Mr President, the government is in favour of this because it once did not support it. The High House then voted and these amendments were not introduced. We will support, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will support, because we have always been behind green energy, behind clean air, for accelerating the development of such natural, clean energy sources as the sun, such as wind, as water energy, because this needs to be accelerated. I remember, at the end of the previous term, we introduced a prosumer law that provided fixed tariffs. The first thing the new government did when it came in, the new crew, when it came in, was to block that bill. Everything, the windmills are blocked. Now it's slowly starting to unscrew, but a few nice years have passed, we've lost them, and the current is getting more expensive, the air is getting more polluted. Nothing happens to improve air quality so that people can breathe clean air and 45,000. Poles, one bigger city, dies a year from the fact that the air is unclean. Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, as I said, will support this project if it is still possible, Mr. Thank you for this project. But you should've thought about it before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u331	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u332	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The document indicated the possibility of using hybrid electric vehicles as a key element of the sector's development. The incentive to do so will be to reduce excise duty rates. At this point, unfortunately, it should be noted that according to the plan presented by PiS in 2017 for the development of electromobility, which is so loudly announced, there are unfortunately many barriers that effectively slow down the transformation of this sector. Already at the time of the establishment of this programme, more than 70% representatives of the industry indicated that it would be very unlikely to be implemented. Experts pointed out that electric cars must be much cheaper and that the benefits of their use must be greater. Also without an extensive and easily accessible infrastructure for charging electric cars, achieving the assumed level will be simply unrealistic. The previous 2,5 years only confirmed the concerns of the experts. The ambitious programme is only impossible to meet with a promise without covering, as can be seen in actual statistics. I personally regret this because I chair a permanent subcommittee that deals with electromobility, and we really did everything in our power to stimulate government action, so that the development of electromobility, to achieve this 1 million electric cars in 2025, is possible. Of course, we know that these are just ambitious plans and nothing more. The targets set in 2017 assumed that by the next year, i.e. by 2020, about 50,000 people would be travelling on Polish roads. Electric cars. Unfortunately, this figure has only increased from less than 1600 to about 6,000. presently. And where's 1 million, ladies and gentlemen? The situation is aggravated by the fact that the PiS government ensured an even more dynamic transformation of the electromobile sector over the next 5 years until 2025. The number of cars was then to increase from 50,000, attention, to this symbolic 1 million. This level is a target for the European Union as a whole for 2020, and unfortunately Poland is far from the top in the European ranking. The favourable legal environment announced by the government for the development of electromobility is also a promise not to be reflected in reality. The introduction of a fair system of support from the Low Carbon Transport Fund remains a key issue in this respect. It is also necessary to implement changes in the draft regulatory framework corresponding to market conditions. The Low Carbon Transport Fund is another tax imposed on drivers, but as if the results of charging this tax in the form of an increase in electromobility unfortunately as it was not, there is no such thing. So we ask where the money that is taken from us, or drivers, has gone. The question of providing government support to individuals was also cleverly addressed in the draft regulation of the Minister of Energy published on 15 July this year, because the subsidies proposed in it do not, however, cover most electric cars on the market. And here it is, ladies and gentlemen, a big problem. The document provides for support only for a non-business natural person. Electric car models supported in the amount of a maximum of 37,5 thousand. PLN may not cost more than 125 thousand. zł. From what I've come up with, I think one thing, maybe two cars meet this criterion, so these are extremely inappropriate solutions that aren't happening. In the opinion of industry experts, such a project will not give any chance to initiate growth in this sector. Moreover, the entry excluding almost 2 million persons with status [[♪ The bell ♪]] performing their own business activity shows only the curiasibility of the entire project, supposed to support society. I'm almost done, Marshal. Bringing the electromobile sector to the desired level of development requires planned and strategic decisions by the government, as well as a willingness to cooperate with business and science representatives. Precise and organised educational activities are needed to raise public awareness. The draft laws should confirm the sincere attitude of the government supporting the whole society in its actions, not just a part. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will, of course, support the proposed resolution of the bill. However, it points out that there is an urgent need for statutory amendments which will increase the real interest in electric cars rather than just make-up cars. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u333	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Długi will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try very briefly. I will begin by asking the rapporteur, whom I thank for staying in the Chamber. Counselor, you are signed as one of the people who represents the applicants, which is a parliamentary project. What did you do about this project? Is this a parliamentary project or a government project? Have you prepared this project or the Ministry, and you just signed it? I'm talking about it on purpose, because it's an obvious example of bending the law. In fact, this project should be prepared by the Minister of Finance, presented by the Minister of Finance, and should go all the way. Maybe then we'd have the necessary data to justify it. In fact, as an applicant's representative, you mentioned a number of things, but you didn't give specific data because you didn't have them. I appreciate this effort, but without this data it is impossible to say whether we are really supporting anything in electromobility or just pretending. Let me say we're pretending. Why are we pretending? For the record, we will support this project because every tax reduction is good. Even if the tax reduction causes greater pain in those sectors where this tax does not decrease. But in fact, there is no data and no data is presented here, which would indicate that such a solution, including support for hybrid vehicles in general, affects in any way the reduction of emissions of anything that is harmful. It's not just that a little less fuel is consumed, but it's about loss. What happens to batteries after all these changes? Who calculated this? Who did the real environmental and climate audit for hybrid vehicles? Are we dealing only with the pressure of a certain industrial or rather sales sector? Because, contrary to what you said, no elements are produced in Poland when it comes to hybrid and electrical systems. We produce other car components, but not these. Since we want to support these processes, I would like to know why we will support only certain brands and only in one sector. How do we support electromobility? There's even a company to take care of it, but it doesn't seem to be doing it. Nothing's been done about it. I do not want to repeat what my previous speaker just said, but nothing was really done to introduce electromobility in Poland and show that under Polish conditions, for example. CO2 emissions will either decrease or increase because this has not yet been demonstrated. For the time being, I am afraid, I think you have said this, that under Polish conditions electric vehicles will increase CO2 emissions due to the way electricity is produced and the efficiency of engines. Diesel is therefore more ecological for the Polish climate than an electric vehicle. A paradox, but it is. However, this project does not provide any calculations, any data that would indicate that hybrid vehicles that are not powered from the outside will in any way help our environment, cities or harm them, especially with regard to subsequent waste. Like I said, we think this project is underdeveloped. For the sake of clarity, I do not blame the people who signed here for this, but the real authors, that is, the ministry, which did not perfect the project, especially in terms of justification. This may be a good project, but the justification is general. It follows that it is intended to smile, firstly, to the European Union and secondly, to such or other sectors of the car industry and rather not those related to production, but to sales. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u335	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 3813. Inspired by Members of the Law and Justice to submit a draft law on the amendment of excise duty was Directive 2014/94 of the European Union and the National Framework for the Development of Alternative Fuel Infrastructures for stimulating the development of low-carbon transport. That Directive required Member States to develop a national framework for the development of alternative fuels infrastructure. In line with the requirements of this Directive and with the expected development of the alternative fuel market in Poland, the document sets targets for infrastructure for charging electric vehicles and for filling vehicles with natural gas. The National Policy for the Development of Alternative Fuel Infrastructures identified the possibility of using hybrid electric vehicles as one of the means of developing the market for alternative fuels vehicles. The plan for the development of electromobility in Poland provides that the creation of an electromobility ecosystem will be a long-term process and must take into account existing barriers in Poland. The existing electromobility instruments provided for temporary exemption from excise duty for hybrid vehicles. The proposed provisions complement this instrument and are introduced to speed up the desired market changes. These provisions amend the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008, setting a 50% reduction in the rate of this tax for hybrid vehicles. This solution is consistent with the total tax exemption for zero-emission electric vehicles in force and maintained in force. According to the projectors, the change will improve the use of low-carbon vehicles and contribute to the dissemination and acceleration of market transformation towards the further development of the market for alternative fuel vehicles and consequently to the reduction of emissions of harmful substances and the improvement of air quality in Poland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this draft law in further legislative work, reducing by 50% excise duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u337	Thank you, sir. Two Members have asked questions. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? If not, I'm closing the list. And I ask Mr Jack Tomczak, PSL - Coalition Poland. There you go. Excuse me, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u338	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed provisions amend the excise duty Act of 6 December 2018 by introducing a 50% reduction in the rate of this tax for hybrid vehicles. However, in the face of the fiscalism of this government, which is manifested among others. by increasing many fees for entrepreneurs, including among others. ZUS, the question arises: Why is not detailed simulation of the effects of the solution introduced on the state budget attached to the draft of this Act? Isn't it that, on the one hand, we have favourable provisions on the reduction of excise duty, and on the other hand, there is no simulation that might indicate that this money will come from other public danins, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the burden on entrepreneurs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u339	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jan Klaviter, not associated. I remind you, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not share the concern of my colleague, Mr Longi, regarding the beneficial impact of the increase in the popularity of hybrid vehicles. It's just that a hybrid vehicle is one where the engine is kept in an optimal position when it comes to its efficiency. The engine, working especially in urban traffic, with very low turnover, etc., is characterized by much worse efficiency and, for example, the emission level, let's say, will be much higher if the vehicle is not hybrid. In hybrid at that time, it just works electric current and its efficiency is, it was said, 90% and the engine is running right now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when his ability to work is optimal. Thank you. [[What about the waste? I'm talking about the waste.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u341	Thank you very much. Does the applicant wish to answer the question? Here you go, Mr Ireneus Gains.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u342	Maybe a little bit. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In replying to speeches and questions, High Sejm, I am very pleased that all present, despite critical comments, have confirmed that the parliamentary clubs represented by the Members will vote in favour of the bill presented. This is extremely important in terms of environmental protection, improving air quality, especially in cities, in large urban agglomerations, but also in terms of identifying a certain trend, giving a course related to the development of the entire electromobility market. Because we're talking about low-carbon vehicles, not zero-emission vehicles. This is a process of pursuit, a long process of investigation into the development of the market for zero-emission vehicles. In answer to Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak's question, the establishment of 1 million electric vehicles is as valid as possible, only that the time has been set, as if the limit, by 2025. It's probably also a contractual boundary, because these are highly advanced technologies, this is a new market that is developing in a new area of technology. I believe that there is a great chance that, with regulations such as the one we are presenting to the High House at the moment, we will be considering, under discussion, the development of this market will take place, and if this regulation enters into force, it will certainly contribute to this. The government is here to create good conditions for the development of entire sectors of the economy. It is not true that hybrid drives are not produced in Poland, that there are no Polish companies that cooperate in the production of hybrid drives. Maybe I don't want to exchange brands so I don't get to be accused of the lobby being delivered from the Parliamentary Speaker, but I assure you I've studied the subject. In Poland there are sold electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles of dozens of brands, several of which cooperate with Polish companies, small, medium-sized enterprises that carry out projects, work on the basis of providing some technological data, cooperate with companies that produce these drives, but also with smaller companies that perform a whole range of smaller components and semi-finished products used later in the assembly of the entire drive. As regards the alleged lack of data that would confirm the low carbonity of hybrid vehicles, this is absolutely not true. Just read the reports of the Polish Association of Automotive Industry and other specialist... [[Mr Ecologicality. What about the waste?]] Mr President, the Member spoke, I listened patiently. ... expert trade associations. There are studies. These are not only for public use, they are preceded by several years of research. Hybrid drives, even if, in view of what Mr Klawiter said, have a much higher efficiency in urban traffic, use those opportunities that are not ordinary combustion drives. These are vehicles that save the environment and do not emit pollutants such as diesel into the atmosphere. The Member here said that diesels are greener. Nothing more vicious. [[I didn't say that.]] Of course, the new car is always an efficient car, but after a certain period of use it cannot in any way compare with hybrid drive and such a vehicle. I think that's all the questions. Oh, and Mr Długi asked if this was a parliamentary project. Yes, sir, this is a parliamentary project. I'm happy to show you at the end of my term... I think that Mr Cieślinski did not have time to follow this because he was active in another area in the Sejm, but Mr Jan Klawiter acted, and Mr Cieślinski sometimes looked at Parliamentary meetings of the Mining and Energy Team. 3.5 years of intensive work, of course, with the participation of representatives of the government side, of individual ministries, which we also invited, as far as possible, experts from many areas of energy, including electromobility, to protect the environment. Deep studies in this area have resulted in this modest project, because there is nothing complicated about technology here. We simply reduce the excise duty rate by half, so that we give the market a boost, give a boost so that hybrid vehicles can enjoy more popularity, because at the moment they are simply too expensive for the average pocket of the Polish consumer. At the same time, what we are most concerned about is environmental protection, air protection, and with an increased number of such vehicles in our cities, this will certainly have a positive impact in our road transport space. So much for me. Thank you very much. Once again, I ask the entire High House to support this bill. He deserves to be accepted by all votes in favour. I'm pretty sure of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u343	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. After consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, I propose that the Sejm refer to the Parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act, contained in print No 3813, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks, the Law on Civil Status Acts, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Law on Telecommunications Law, the Law on Rules of Public Collections and some other laws (print No 3789). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Mr. Karol Okoński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present to you a draft law amending the Act on the informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and other laws, which in principle introduces three major changes in addition to a number of other additions and changes in results. Firstly, the aim of the project is to create a legal basis for the operation of the system of state registers, in short the SRP, which will be a solution aimed at harmonising and defining the principles of operation of public registers. At the same time, the Minister responsible for IT is appointed as responsible for the functioning of the system. The system of state registers will contain only those registers for which the entities responsible will decide to join. This decision will be based on a voluntary basis. Therefore, we believe that there is an opportunity to address the problem of the lack of identity of data processed in different public registers. The project assumes that it is appropriate to recognise the PESEL register as a register containing data which, in relation to the same data collected in other public registers, will be treated as reference data. This Act will also require certain public entities to verify the data initially entered in relation to compliance with the data collected in the PESEL register. The obligation will apply to public registers operating using ICT systems and processing data of natural persons holding a PESEL number. The positive result of the verification will enable the data to be entered in the public register, while the negative result of the verification will be required by the introductory authority to explain immediately the facts concerning the detected non-compliance with the personal data contained in the PESEL register. The second change I would like to draw attention to is the introduction of a legal basis for the functioning of the contact data register, which will be kept in electronic form in a much safer and more secure way from the point of view of the protection of personal data compared to the traditional telephone book. In our view, this will also speed up the completion of administrative procedures and enable action to be taken to ensure that citizens and businesses are informed of their obligations and requirements. The contact data register will be implemented as a central register in the system of state registers, SRP. The following data will be collected in the register: PESEL number, name and, depending on the citizen's will, e-mail address and/or mobile phone number. The contact details will be provided in the register voluntarily. Their processing will take place only on the basis of the consent of the interested parties. The introduction of contact details, updates and deletions will be possible by the data subject himself, using an electronic service and through the public administration when carrying out matters by that authority for the person concerned. On the other hand, the provision of data to the entity belonging to the set of entities set out in the Act will be carried out by means of teletransmission devices after a single simplified application has been submitted by that entity after compliance with the conditions set out in the Act. And a third change I'd like to draw attention to. The draft law also introduces further facilitations dedicated to citizens by amending the Act on the Rights of the Civil Status Act, which will provide the legal basis for the provision of a dedicated electronic service enabling citizens to self-retrieve a copy of the Civil Status Act in electronic form directly from the Register of Civil Status. We plan that this service will be available not only to the person concerned but also to her spouse, children and parents. It should be stressed that, thanks to the changes proposed in the bill, citizens will be given the opportunity to take advantage of solutions, tools which will relieve them in their daily care of official matters, speed up and facilitate the handling of their affairs and help avoid the negative consequences resulting from the failure to settle the case or the timely handling of the case. In view of the above, I shall bring and ask the High House to pass this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u345	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. And again before I start the discussion, I will allow myself to welcome the Village Housewives and firefighters from the Kuchara Volunteer Fire Department in the Pleszewski district. [[Applause]] We would like to welcome you very warmly. Good morning. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u346	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project assumes among others. the creation of a legal basis for the functioning of the contact data register, so-called The RDK, which will be the central register kept by the Minister responsible for IT, in which the data are recorded in real time. The contact details will be communicated by the citizens to the register on a voluntary basis, on the basis of the consent of the interested parties. The introduction, modification and deletion of the data can be carried out by the data subject himself, using an electronic service and by the public administration when carrying out matters for that person. The register will allow the provision of electronic information services to the public administration. The implementation of the WFD will bring numerous benefits to citizens in the form of facilitating and speeding up the handling of official matters and helping to avoid the negative consequences resulting from the failure to settle the case or the timely settlement of the case. The contact details of citizens will be collected in one reference register. The citizen will be able to enter and update his data both via e-service and when visiting the office. This approach gives the citizen the opportunity to choose the most convenient course of action for him at a given time. The register collecting contact details will have a high level of security. The proposed solution will ensure a coherent, logical and efficient state information system, which will directly improve the efficiency and comfort of communication between public administrations and citizens. It should be stressed that the RDK will be a tool used for the provision of public administration services. The set of services that will be able to use the contact details contained in the register is an open set which, according to the designer's assumption, will systematically increase, in line with the needs and capabilities of public administrations. The introduction of this solution will enable the administration to act as a servant to the citizen in terms of coming out with an information initiative that will allow citizens to avoid the negative consequences of failing to fulfil their obligations. This is a social change that is expected. Authorities will not only make demands for citizens but will also assist in the implementation of cases. In addition, data in the RDK will be processed in accordance with the data protection rules, on the basis of the consent of the data subject. In order to make it easier for the citizen to obtain a copy of the act of civil status, the possibility will be introduced for the citizen to submit an application and to issue a copy of it by means of an electronic service dedicated for this purpose directly from the register of civil status. It will be necessary to have a means of electronic identification, e.g. a trusted profile or a personal profile. The proposed changes will primarily speed up communication between the public administration and the citizen, which will directly translate into a reduction in the amount of paper-based correspondence so far and speed up the handling of the case. The Law and Justice Club recommends the adoption of the above-mentioned House. a draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u347	Thank you, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u348	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When analysing the draft law, it must be stated explicitly that this is a certain addition to the system of state registers. Of course, it is about the content of these projects and about their substance very much said, so I will not focus on it. Let me just say that the contact data register, which will be created thanks to this proposal, is something that, I have the impression, will definitely facilitate communication between public administration and citizens, because the fact that the government or government will have contact with citizens in the form of an email address or a telephone number, will also give the opportunity to improve communication between the office and the citizen, which, hopefully, will prevent the statute of these matters or put citizens in difficult situations when they can simply forget about something. Thanks to the fact that the clerk will have access to the data, he will be able to keep in touch with the citizen. It's gonna be a pretty big plus, so that should be considered a very good thing. In addition, the second issue concerning a copy of the civil status act, which will give the possibility to apply the so-called. qualified electronic seal and login thanks to e.g. The profile of the trusted and the possibility of downloading such a document will also be a great facilitation for citizens, so this extension of the system of state registers is, in my view, a natural thing and we should have no doubt about the validity of these initiatives. Of course, there were various proposals during the public consultation, but we will probably talk about this as a question, so I just don't want to extend. I think we can talk about the details during the second reading and the work of the Digital Commission. At this stage, we believe that these actions, which have been proposed, are complementary to issues that are so obvious and right that they are worth discussing, and we will do so at the committee meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u349	Thank you, sir. One Member has joined the floor. Would any of you like to join us? I can't see. In that case, Mr Carrot, I am speaking to Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, and I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask a question which relates to one of the proposals submitted during the public consultation. Let me quote him. This concerns the wording of the proposed Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules It indicates that the control of government authorities may also apply to other systems, if necessary for a full evaluation of the system used to carry out tasks contracted from the government. It is also about ICT systems, which are in the hands of mobile operators, telecommunications operators. After all, the Office of Electronic Communications has the power to control these systems and has the appropriate tools to do so in accordance with applicable law. So the basic question is: Is giving e.g. The voivode who is responsible for this today, the ability to control precisely those ICT systems, which also belong to operators, is it right? I would like the Minister to address this issue, which appeared during the consultation, and this is the question I am asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u351	Thank you, sir. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Minister Karol Okoński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I'll explain briefly. This change emerged as a result of consultations and requests given to us by the voivods. It was about... Precisely. The ability to control itself concerns administrative entities and the ability of the voivod to carry out full activities, which was not possible, which sometimes poses some problems with the current rules, e.g. concerning access to the server room or access to certain devices. So that it was an effect simply to take into account the comments which were submitted at the consultation stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u353	Thank you, Minister. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I propose, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the ITisation of activities of entities carrying out public tasks, the Law on Civil Status Acts, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Law on Telecommunications Law, the Law on the Rules of Public Collections and some other laws, contained in print No.3789, to the Commission for Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Industrial Property Law (Print No 3664). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr. Marcin Ociepa... You are, aren't you? Good. ...to present the justification for the bill. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u354	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill on the modernisation of Industrial Property Rights. This project is a very important project for innovation policy, because industrial property law itself, the protection of industrial property, is an important instrument that shapes this policy. We believe that this amendment makes the Patent Office a stronger support for the development of technology and technology in Poland. The amendment follows the demands put forward in the White Paper on industrial property by the environment concerned and, of course, by the entrepreneurs themselves. If your marshal will allow me, I will briefly present the most important solutions that the bill introduces. Firstly, we are bringing the provisions of Industrial Property Rights closer to the relevant provisions contained in the European Patent Convention and the Washington Patent Cooperation Agreement, among others. by specifying the definition of the invention, specifying the requirement of uniformity of the application of the invention, introducing a restriction of the patent into the Polish legal order of the institution. A significant change is to increase the availability of legal assistance in the field of industrial property protection by introducing a solution whereby the party's proxy in proceedings before the Patent Office in matters of industrial designs and geographical indications may be, in addition to patent attorneys, lawyers or lawyers. We also extend the possibility of exemption from periodic fees, for the first period of protection, to industrial designs and trademarks. This is so important that for entrepreneurs at the initial stage of doing business all kinds of fees, tributes, burdens are important and can hinder the development of their business activities. We also amend the rules governing civil law claims, i.e. a claim for the protection of evidence relating to infringements of industrial property rights and so-called. an information claim, in such a way as to ensure the proper protection of the entitled while taking into account the rights of third parties who are not infringers of industrial property rights. An important change is also the introduction of the term of office of the President of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. The term of office is to last 5 years. The term of office is to be limited to two terms of office. We want to simplify the procedure related to rebuilding the competitive advantage of Polish entrepreneurs based on a strong brand and unique solutions. Modernising Industrial Property Rights by bringing national law closer to European and global standards means improving the functioning of this system for the eligible, including entrepreneurs themselves. This will enable them to obtain protection of exclusive rights in a simpler and faster way not only in Poland, but also from the European Patent Office and even other international patent offices. This allows our entrepreneurs to build competitive advantages based on a strong brand and unique technical and technological solutions, especially in the IT industry or in Polish design industries, which is of particular importance to us. The last point I wanted to draw attention to, which is linked to the previous one, is the question of a more predictable case law of the patent office. By bringing regulations closer to European law and the European Convention on the Grant of European Patents entitled, including entrepreneurs interested in acting exclusively on the Polish market, will be able to patent their inventions directly in the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland and not in the European office. As a result of these changes in patent regulations, the case law of the Polish Patent Office will be more predictable, as the departure from views presented by the European Patent Office will require additional justification. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the importance of this project for Polish entrepreneurs, in order to increase the innovation of the Polish economy, I kindly ask you to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u355	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Law of 30 June 2000 on Industrial Property Law, hereinafter referred to as the Law of 29 April 2004 on the Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights, is the result of the need to eliminate the errors identified by the environment relating to industrial property in the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. The draft also contains a number of provisions adapting to the Convention on the granting of European patents. As regards the amendments related to the approximation of national provisions to the provisions of the Convention on the granting of European Patents, [[European Patent Convention]] drawn up in Munich on 5 October 1973, and the Patent Cooperation Agreement, drawn up in Washington on 19 June 1970, this amendment implements into the Polish legal order certain legal institutions, known under the Convention on the granting of European patents, in particular adapts the conditions for obtaining patent protection and introduces the right to restrict the patent by amending patent reservations. I was about to present the most important changes to this project, but the Secretary of State, Mr Marcin Ociepa, presented most of these key points, I understand, by releasing me a little bit from this obligation. May I just say that the law will enter into force after the expiry of the 3-month vacathio legis - art. 6 of the project - which is an appropriate period to prepare for the changes to be made. The draft amendment of the Act does not contain provisions laying down the conditions for the pursuit of economic activities and therefore it is not necessary to apply the provisions of Resolution No 20 of the Council of Ministers of 18 February 2014 on recommendations for the harmonisation of the time limits for the entry into force of certain normative acts. The draft does not contain technical provisions within the meaning of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts. The proposed regulation is in line with European Union law. Please give us a positive opinion and adopt this bill. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u357	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Madam President! High Izbo! I'm gonna start a little light on the subject. Namely, I wanted to say that the change in the position of Marshal of the Sejm was not limited only to unveiling the cataract. We are pleased to participate in the deliberations of the Sejm conducted by you by the marshal not only during the voting process. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present the relationship of our club with the proposal to amend the Industrial Property Law Act, which is already a fairly old law, because of 30 June 2000, of course with subsequent amendments. This shows that it would indeed be good to prepare a comprehensive new law because of changing circumstances. We are aware that the amendment implements into the Polish legal order certain legal institutions known under the Convention on the granting of European patents, and in particular adapts the conditions for obtaining patent protection and introduces the right to limit the patent by amending patent reservations. This, of course, is particularly important for entrepreneurs who will benefit from this right. At the moment, because Poland is, however, a country that exhibits enormous dynamics in terms of exports, the guarantee of securing our products through trademarks and patents is very important. Therefore, it would be good for help in obtaining such safeguards to be easy and more accessible to many entrepreneurs. The draft law also provides for clarification of the provisions on utility designs, making changes both in terms of the concept of utility design and its usefulness and novelty. The proposed new definition of the industrial design allows for a lower level of protection than the patent. It's about these changes that are quite important. This project clearly justifies that persons who are not resident or established in the territory of the Republic of Poland, the European Union and the EEA Member State or the Swiss Confederation may act only through a professional proxy. The right to appear alone before the Office shall be excluded from these persons. The wording of the rule so far could have been very controversial in this regard. Of course, the project also provides for clarification of the supervisory powers of the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs over the activities of the Patent Office, because at the moment the Patent Office is subject to the Council of Ministers and supervision of the activities of the Patent Office is exercised by the Minister competent for Economic Affairs. It is therefore necessary to clarify the powers enjoyed by the Minister of Economic Affairs in the framework of supervision in addition to measures of a sovereign nature, such as recommendations or opinions which do not require regulation at the level of the law by nature. In short, as regards the things that have been included, which the Minister has not presented, because in this speech you have actually presented a lot of things. I would only draw attention to the Supreme Court's opinion. There is one point that the project does not contain a comprehensive standard, which would eliminate further doubts regarding both the security of evidence and the harmonisation of the information claim with the relevant institutions of civil proceedings. Many doubts have been expressed on this subject for years. I can say that the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition is in favour of handing this project over to committee work, of course. There we will probably be discussing and there will be a final decision to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u359	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, I propose that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Industrial Property Law in print No 3664, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 52 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Les (prints No. 3822 and 3825). I would like to ask Anna Sobecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u360	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft resolution for first reading in the Committee on Culture and Media on 10 September 2019. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting today, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft resolution. The Commission accepted the editorial amendments of the Legislative Office. The Commission unanimously adopted the whole resolution on the content of: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Les. On the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment in Prudnik-Les Venerable Servant of God Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of the Millennium of the Polish Republic, wishes to honor the statesman, pastor of the Polish Church in difficult times of communism, outstanding priest and humanist, a steadfast defender of Polish national interests. Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński was a moral basis for millions of compatriots in Poland and abroad. He courageously acted in defence of Polish independence and sovereignty, showing great and beautiful cards of our history. His famous words (we will not give up) are still a signpost in the struggle for our own beliefs and values. In 1954, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński was imprisoned in the monastery. Franciscans in Prudnik-Les, where the idea of Jasna Góra's Weddings of the Polish Nation was born and Poland was entrusted with the care of Our Lady of Czestochowa. Thus he led us as a nation through the period of communist totalitarianism, defending the Polish tradition, identity and human rights. In his sermon on Jasna Góra on June 1, 1958, he said: 'We will fight every step for Poland to be Polish! To think in Poland in Polish." The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays the highest tribute to the Venerable Servant of God, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. So much for a resolution. I ask the High House to pass it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u361	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Katarzyna Czochar, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of our club in relation to the resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Les. Cardinal. Wyszyński performed his spiritual ministry at the most difficult time for Poland, the time of repression, the fight against religion and the Church. Despite this, he constantly taught Poles that the Catholic Church is a home of true freedom and love. His life and activities are a great manifestation of the strength of the human spirit and unwavering faith. He was and is an authority for many Poles, a statesman, a politician, a primate. But above all, he was a man who gave his whole life to God, the Church and Poland. Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński was imprisoned in Prudnik from 6 October 1954 until 27 October 1955. This was the third place in the Primate's prison. During his stay in Prudnik in the heart of Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszyński was born with a desire to renew Jasna Góra vows in reference to the royal anniversary of Jan Kazimierz's vows to Our Lady in the Cathedral of Lviv in 1655. The Primate decided to renew the act of dedication of the Polish Lady of Jasna Góra, adjusting the vows to contemporary times. In the prison records, he noted: "Reading 'Potop' by Sienkiewicz, I realized in Prudnik that one should think about this great date. After all, I was imprisoned so close to the place where King John Kazimierz and Primate Leszczyński advised on how to save Poland from the confusion. And he added: "It is worth thinking about the 'defense of Jasna Góra' in 1955. - It is the defense of the soul, the family, the Nation, the Church - from the flood of new 'witchcraft'. Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński had a huge influence on the formation of the Polish state. He strengthened the Polish nation with his sermons and teachings. He encouraged the workers in 1970 on the Coast. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He said, "Your pain is our pain together." If I could take responsibility for what happened recently in Poland in my sense of justice and order, I would take it as much as possible. For there must be a sacrifice in the nation occupying the nation's guilt. The Primate also served as a mediator between workers and power. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to ask the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u363	Thank you, Member. Is Mr Wojciech the King? There isn't. In that case, I invite Mr Jan Łopa, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I have the honour to declare that we are in favour of the resolution on commemorating the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Les. I have the greater honor and joy that we commemorate the man who left a great and significant mark in the Diocese of Lublin, where I also have the pleasure to come from. I'd like to quote, if you'll allow me, a few thoughts of card. Stefan Wyszyński. I think they're up to date today, too. In Niepokalanów in April 1969 card. Wyszynski said: "Hatefully we will not defend our Homeland, but we must defend it. So let us defend her with love! Forward among themselves, not to raise your hand against anyone in the Homeland, in which the invaders beat us. We can't imitate them. We can't beat and beat ourselves. Poles have been beaten enough by strangers, so let them learn something from these painful experiences. We must try another way of understanding - through love that will make the whole world, looking at us, say, 'Here is how they love each other'. Only then will the desired peace, agreement and mutual trust prevail. In another place he said, "Let us protect ourselves from contempt for anyone." Even for the worst man, because he's still a man until... a man. One more thought: "Every hate, every fist drawn against your brother is a loss. " Let these thoughts be a message for the future, after this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u365	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, who will represent the Kukiz Posel Club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the resolution on commemorating the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cards. Stefan Wyszynski in Prudnik-Les. The figure of the Primate of the Millennium, the statesman and martyr, is a model of the heroic attitude of the pastors of the Church towards the totalitarian oppression which was subjected to the Polish nation. Today the Polish Parliament worships another hero of that time - Fr. The Jesuit of Władysław Gurgach, murdered by communist oppressors. A figure of the Servant of God cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński is an example of slightly different paths and forms of resistance to totalitarianism. But these two priests are part of the great trend of opposition to godlessness and moral degrengolady brought by the German occupation and later by the Soviet and Communist occupation. Nurtur disapproval of crime and the trend of calling for Poland free, honest and moral. The whirlwind, whose motto became these repeated words of Fr. Card. Wyszyński: Despite the drastic conditions of communist occupation, it was difficult for Moscow agents to sit Primate Wyszyński, head of the Catholic Church, on the bench of the accused. Especially since no excuses were found for a fake trial. It was difficult to murder Wyszynski on the basis of a political order of judgment of a criminal court, as it was done against Fr. Chaplain of the underground organization, Fr. Gurgach. The first place to intern the Primate was the monastery. The idea of entrusting Poland and Poles to Our Lady by Jasna Góra vows was born there. It brought about the rebirth of the spirit of patriotism and faith strangled by communists, which beautifully resulted in solidarity in the years of the pontificate of another Polish priest, St. John Paul II the Great. Stefan Wyszyński, Fr. Władysław Gurgacz, St. John Paul II, b. Jerzy Popiełuszko, Stefan Niedzielak, Stanisław Suchowolec, Sylvester Zych, Adolf Chojnacki and many others, both hierarchs and humble parish priests or vicars, gave a testimony in the years of the People's Poland to the values on which the crest of Polish statehood was built as a country of Latin civilization, defending our roots and identities. The reminder and commemoration of the crystal and heroic figure of the Primate of the Millennium should also become an opportunity to reflect on the presence of all manifestations of leftist evil among Poles, whose fruits and slayers still sow mischief and hatred. And also to reflect on attempts to blur the boundaries of vulnerability to evil and wickedness [[♪ The bell ♪]] relativisation of attitudes and life choices of many communist officers. Because - as he wrote in the Gospel of St. Jan-----just the truth. He'll set us free. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of this resolution and hopefully this will be done through acclamation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u367	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Wojciech King, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club towards the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Les. So-called. monastery with a cell in Prudnik-Les - card. Stefan Wyszyński spent the year: from October 1954 to October 1955. In loneliness, in a barbed fence of a monastery guarded by dozens of officers. While in prison, he did not lose his spirit, worked hard and meditated, even though the conditions were very unfavorable. The cardinal was not allowed to walk or contact his loved ones. Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński, who came to be used in difficult times for the Republic, showed integrity, was a great moral authority, a man of state and one of the fathers of change, which led to the fall of communism. On the 65th anniversary, the Primate of Cards was imprisoned. Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Lesie Sejm of the Republic of Poland through a resolution symbolically pays tribute to the great man, the Primate of the Millennium, cardinal. Stefan Wyszynski, which, of course, is welcomed by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u369	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 7:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 05 hrs. 19 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra (prints No 3808 and 3817). I would ask the representative of Boris Budka's applicants to provide a justification for the proposal. [[Give me a light.]] Let me remind you, Mr Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u370	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, I would like to present briefly the justification for the request for a vote of distrust by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland against the Minister of Justice. When almost four years ago we gave the Ministry of Justice to the Minister of Justice, he received a number of very good changes in the package. We have improved court proceedings, introduced electronic procedures, blocked the wrong rules for chamber executions, unanimously passed a law on free legal assistance in Parliament, introduced electronic perpetual books, free access to the National Court Register. We have also made a number of improvements with regard to judicial review by citizens in the form of electronic records and recording of hearings. All you had to do was not ruin it. Unfortunately, over the last four years, we have been dealing with the progressive degradation of the system rather than the reform of justice. It's all showing specific numbers. For the first time since 1989, the length of court proceedings has ceased to shorten and has begun to extend. This is the real achievement of the Minister of Justice. But, ladies and gentlemen, that's not all. After all, it was from the Ministry of Justice that the biggest legal buffs came out: the law on IPN, which compromised Poland on the international stage, the endless amendments to the laws on the Supreme Court, the National Court of Justice or the Constitutional Court. It was during this term that the Constitutional Tribunal was blocked, the National Judicial Council was stubborn, the lists of support were classified, the Supreme Court was assassinated. [[Scandal.]] These are the real achievements of the Minister of Justice. What is the direct reason for this request is the annoying news in recent weeks about the organized factory of heyte, the hatred which the Minister of Justice has organised under the supervision of, among others, the Minister of Justice. His deputy. [[Applause]] What has caused us to submit our application is that we do not agree that in the Ministry of Justice the independent judges, the attacks on innocent Polish citizens, the hate industry, will be destroyed in a systematic manner. The Ministry of Justice has employed people who should never be there. Until now, we haven't heard the word "sorry." Until now, the Minister of Justice did not have the courage to stand before the Poles and say sorry for what was happening in the ministry he was running. [[To Blide.]] Instead, we're dealing with a bunch of bullshit, manipulation and propaganda that's draining from this department. After all, we find out that the personal deputy of the current Minister of Justice, his right hand, became Vice Minister by accident, that the current Minister met him after the election. If that is true, isn't that reason enough to call off such an incompetent and irresponsible minister of justice, who, on the street, accepts an unfamiliar person as his deputy, and then entrusts her with the systematic destruction of the justice system? [[Applause]] But is any of you, especially on this side of the Parliament, able to believe that the Minister of Justice in the Chamber is such a naive politician that he would have accepted an untested person as his deputy to the Ministry? Can any of you believe that for five months, from the electronic media class of the famous Emilia to today, the Attorney General of Justice had no knowledge of what was in there? [[I believe you.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[The voice from the hall: You're a fool.]] If you believe that, then you testify that such a person should never become a prosecutor general, [[Applause]] taking such tools into their own hands, calling their subordinates, the heads of the prosecutor's office, because she had to have the knowledge which people would be responsible for the most important investigations in Poland. [[Everyone thinks according to each other.]] So? Nothing. [[Voice from the room: Yes, exactly.]] This great sheriff, who has repeatedly appeared in much less important cases, spoke about giving orders, spoke about what the prosecution will do, suddenly for five months he has no idea that in the regional prosecutor's office in Katowice there has been a class of discrediting materials not only the Vice Minister of Justice, but also judges who are in the National Council of Courts, disciplinary advocates. These are the people who were delegated to the Ministry of Justice during the time of this authority. Ladies and gentlemen! The total responsibility for what has been done in the Ministry of Justice shall be borne by the person who, according to the Constitution, is entitled to request the appointment of his deputies. This is the Minister of Justice present in the Chamber, who should, if he had any leftover honour, have resigned a long time ago. But, ladies and gentlemen, this case is not only an organized hat and a question of political responsibility of the Minister of Justice, but it is also a matter of consent from his superiors, because today everyone who stands by the current Minister of Justice becomes politically responsible for this system of hatred built in that department. [[Applause]] Today, anyone who raises his hand to keep the Minister of Justice's position will be a symbol of approval for a hat, hatred, the provoking of innocent people. You didn't do the basic thing. You have not dismissed a discredited politician and today this responsibility from the Minister of Justice goes directly to the Prime Minister of the Republic. One might ask why such love and such trust in the Minister of Justice suddenly arise. Or is it the files? We saw in the correspondence information about the famous green files on the judges. You can ask if there are other files in the Justice Department, if there are black files, if there are red files... [[The president's gonna check it out.]] ...are there files on your government colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! This question can be asked because the Minister of Justice has been endowed by you as a prosecutor general with competences that no politicians in the European Union have in any civilised country. And today, those who defend what was happening in the Ministry of Justice can also defend themselves. Because we know very well that there are people in this room who do not forget, which in due time can reveal these materials. Why isn't there someone here today who's very interested in one of the proceedings? After all, there should be a person sitting here who has given political permission to return the current minister to the Ministry of Justice. [[Applause]] Here President Kaczyński should sit and look into the eyes of Poles and tell them why he equipped such irresponsible politics with such dangerous tools. But maybe he's not there for a simple reason. After all, we all know that there should be proceedings at the D.A.'s office in the famous case of two towers. We all know that within 30 days, the D.A. should make an appropriate trial decision. Where's the Attorney General, where's the National Attorney, where's the oversight of this case? Or is it about not making decisions like that? Maybe it's about having certain politicians in the chess to be punished later? The biggest charge against the current Minister of Justice is the construction of a pathological system by his Deputy Minister, the Deputy Minister of the Government of PiS, but also the construction of a pathological system when it comes to the Polish prosecutor's office. You've made a political prosecutor who wouldn't be embarrassed by the government of the Polish People's Republic. Why? Because you subjugated all prosecutors in Poland to a politician. You're bragging about success, you're talking about the VAT mob. Yeah, but we gave you the tools, we gave you the uniform control file... [[Yeah, right.]] ...we gave you joint and several responsibility, VAT reversed. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: You gave us the wiretap.]] [[Voice from the room: Attacks on the media.]] Luckily, you didn't ruin that. You've destroyed the justice system. The proceedings are ongoing...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u371	Ladies and gentlemen, please. For now...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u372	... longer, there is no Constitutional Court, the Party National Court Council elects its nominates. So? And you're defending the man who's responsible. But today you are responsible to Poles for the fact that in the ministry in which the word "righteousness" is called, the creation of a system machine of hatred against innocent people was allowed. And today you're lying to the Poles, saying this is some kind of fight between the judges. [[Zibro knew that.]] No, this is the PiS Deputy Minister. [[Applause]] This is the PiS Deputy Minister responsible for the justice system and the politician overseeing it. But what's more, it's never been in the history of the Ministry of Justice that the entire government of the Ministry is extremely politicized. [[Voice from the room: And how many bugs were there under your rule?]] Today, everyone sitting here is running for Parliament. Are they supposed to be professionals? [[Voice from the room: Innocent virgin.]] Unfortunately, the State, the Ministry of Justice... [[You're gonna talk about listening under the Platform's rule.]] [[You're a candidate for what?]] [[Voice from the room: Virgin.]] Resort of Justice... I have a favor to ask, Miss...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u373	I've tried, but you haven't heard. Ladies and gentlemen, please... [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] [[Voice from the room: Virgin.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, on both sides of the room... [[Cymanic, you've lost that virtue a long time ago.]] I ask you to remain calm so that you can finish this, okay? Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand and on the other. There's gonna be club appearances. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u374	Ladies and gentlemen! You defend something undefendable, you stand on the side of evil, you stand on the side of the person who destroyed the Polish justice system. [[Applause]] You are on the side of a man who, instead of reforming the justice system, wanted to make him extremely stubborn and submit to power, just as it was in the right period of the past. There has been and there is no reform of the justice system. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause you're interrupting.]] What you've been pursuing and striving for is merely the implementation of the Lenin principle, that the staff are the most important. What kind of staff you have, you can see it and it's in all these materials: people who are complex, people who would never find themselves in normal reality, but the minister of justice has a strange hand for such people. [[Applause]] And that's your responsibility, too. Today we are faced with the question: Could Poland be better, could there not be divisions, could there be a system that will reform Poland together? [[Voice from the room: only without the Platform.]] The Minister of Justice is denying it. He's a man who should never be in this place. He destroyed trust in Polish courts, destroyed good solutions that we introduced, lies at every turn. Moreover, as the Supreme Chamber of Control points out, instead of helping victims of crimes, 25 million zlotys were illegally transferred to CBA. Is it for the Pegasus system? [[Applause]] Just stand right here... Prime Minister, tell the Poles if you've purchased a system for total surveillance. [[Scandal.]] [[Chasing criminals, exactly.]] [[Voice from the hall: in Wrocław.]] [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: In dictatorships used and in the state of PiS.]] Is this something you're so afraid of standing up and taking responsibility for the man who led it to? [[...the property of Moravian.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! These four years are a waste of time, a period in which instead of the reform of the justice system we had its extreme stubbornness. This can be seen in examples of the GetBack scandal, the KNF scandals, the two towers scandals, and finally the accident of your former prime minister. [[A scandal that wasn't there.]] [[Do you know the list of the Platform's shame?]] Until now, you can't solve a simple case. Why? Because the prosecutors are juggling this case, moving it from one D.A.'s office to another. [[Look in the mirror.]] But what could you do? Make an appeal in favor of the anti-Semite. But what else could you do? I'm going to die before your party buddy so he can be president of one of the biggest companies. That is the true face of what you have done in the justice system. [[Applause]] And today we ask a simple question: Will you have the courage to stand up for the good or will you still stand up for the bad? [[Voice from the room: We will stand on the side of the good.]] And if you, Minister, ask us why we want to cancel you, I will end by quoting, in the name of the rules. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u375	Thank you, sir. I now ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present the opinion of the committee. [[A voice from the hall: They listen to you, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, print No 3808. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this request at its meeting on 11 September 2019, decided to take a negative opinion on the proposal. [[That's weird.]] Voting: 8 votes in favour, 18 against, 3 abstentions. The applicant's statement of whether, on the basis of the application, it has gone far beyond the scope of the application submitted... [[Where is it in the report?]] ...focusing basically on the four years of the ministry and the minister of Ziobra. In January this year, however, the request for a vote of mistrust has already been examined and the arguments contained in that proposal should in principle not be repeated. The new proposal that has been presented... [[But, Your Marshal, there are no reports of this.]] I'd like to present what happened at the committee meeting. The new proposal, which has been presented, concerns the actions of those who have engaged in hating activities. As can be seen from this conclusion, the applicant has not provided any other reasons in addition to this request. On the other hand, Minister Ziobro and vice-ministers spoke in response to this request. Minister Wąsik spoke about those actions that have been taken with regard to his responsibility. [[Voice from the room: Gócik. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Excuse me, Minister Wójcik. Mr Święczkowski spoke about the actions of the national prosecutor, while Minister Warchoł presented changes to the law that have recently been introduced, paying particular attention to the actions that have been taken with regard to the drug mafia, to the anti-Liquiary activities. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What was the applicant talking about?]] An example has been given that no interest reduction has been introduced in relation to the provisions that were introduced in 2011. One of the entrepreneurs borrowed 11 thousand, and during the year he had to pay back 1 million and only thanks to an emergency complaint was it possible to repeal this sentence. Then Minister Kaleta spoke about irregularities which resulted in reprivatization in Warsaw. Members of the opposition drew attention to the consequences of European developments in the justice system and questioned the data provided by the Vice-Ministers and also assumed that Minister Ziobro had to know about the incident, as it was called - the hater's affair in the Ministry of Justice. In response, Minister Ziobro presented the entire cycle... [[Voice from the room: Eavesdropping.]] VAT seals, and the fact that this saved and led to an increase in the revenue of the VAT budget from 100 to 200 million PLN. In general, he stated that there was a change from criminal law to victim's right. After hearing all these reasons, the committee proposed an opinion, as I had previously put forward, with a negative opinion on the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u377	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I only have one request. Really, with so many people, it's enough for everyone to say something under their noses and there's so much noise that no one can hear anyone, so I'm asking both sides to be serious. There was a statement by the applicant, the rapporteur of the committee, and I will give the floor to the representatives of the clubs in a moment, so I would once again call on you to listen to each other and not to shout at each other's benches. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Minister Michał Wójcik will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. And once again, ladies and gentlemen, let's really listen to each other. This is an appeal. to all of us. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u378	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I listened to Mr Boris Budka's speech... [[Voice from the room: Minister.]] ...it's the heights of hypocrisy, the hypocrisy spilled out of that speaker. You really jammed the conscience of this part of the room. Because what are you remembered for? I'm in the middle There were over 100 issues when you were in charge. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Look at you.]] Gas scandal, tape scandal, carbon scandal, gambling, infoafer. [[Voice from the room:...as it is now.]] Oh, I see the P.O. Prime Minister is leaving the room. I wouldn't want to hear about the scandals either. [[Voice from the room: They run away, they run away.]] And so did Grzegorz Schetyn, because you were the Minister of Internal Affairs when there was an infoafer. [[Voice from the room: They're scared.]] And what did you do with your deputies? You didn't do anything. [[Voice from the room: A fork?]] Those were the standards. Those were the standards. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where's the fortune?]] And so many charges have been filed. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen, what's the indicator... [[Voice from the hall: You're not the minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Heiter, hater.]] [[Voice from the room: And where 50,000. Mr. President?]] [[Voice from the hall: How do the cemeteries feel?]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u379	Mr. President, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment. Now the voice of the Marshal of the Seym. Now the voice of the Marshal of the Seym. Ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Boris Budka was speaking, it was quiet in the room. [[Voice from the room: But he kept the level of speech.]] We gave him 15 minutes to perform. So please listen to what individual clubs have to say. [[The voice from the hall: Then let it behave.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we didn't respond to what he said and what Mr. Boris Budka said, so please respect... [[A voice from the room: Deputy Minister defends the Minister?]] Please respect the rights of each Member. I'm asking you very much. [[Voice from the hall: Then let him step out of the club.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u380	It's gonna be even harder because you're the ones who brought the state to a close. [[The voice of the hall: The truth is painful.]] You're the ones who caused organized crime groups to enter our country. [[Voice from the hall: He's from the club.]] You did it. And it was the minister of your government, Minister Chojna-Ghost, who spoke about it during the committee of inquiry meeting. That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[A voice from the hall: I think Minister Gowin then?]] You've created the ground for international criminal groups. [[The voice from the hall: Minister Gowin was.]] Why are you attacking the Minister of Justice, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziebra? [[Voice from the hall: Because he's a hater.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Minister of Justice...]] [[Voice from the room: Good question.]] That's because he put up a strong fight against criminals. [[Applause]] That's why! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's why you are, among other things. in favour of separating the functions of the Attorney General and the Minister for Justice. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Sam created...]] What's more, you're lying about sleeping. President Lech Kaczyński was for such separation. He wasn't. He was always against it, made a veto then, but you voted him out. [[That's not true.]] [[Voice from the hall: There are quotations.]] He said it would cause pathology, cause pathology. And then there was Amber Gold and wild reprivatization, right? [[Voice from the room: I nominated the Attorney General.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] It was Zbigniew Ziobro who caused the VAT extortion bill to be adopted. [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] The highest penalty in Europe - 25 years imprisonment. That's why we have money, among others. For social programs, you didn't do it. [[Voice from the courtroom: And no convictions.]] [[Confiscation extended.]] Extended confiscation - Mr Cymanski. [[Voice from the room: Don't interrupt.]] [[Voice from the room: This is fantastic.]] Pedophile punishment. You used to draw cards when we increased paedophiles' penalties. We fought like this, you took out your cards and left. We created the pedophile registry. [[And where's the bill?]] Punishment for the abuse of animals raised - that's for us. [[Voice from the room: We have raised the punishments.]] Fighting with usury - for us. Fighting road pirates was for us. [[Voice from the room: Alimenciar.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: $4.]] Fighting for Polish children - my area. Did you do something, Mr Myrch? Did you do something? You didn't do anything about it. [[Voice from the room: Alimenty.]] Fighting allies. Did you do something? You didn't do anything. [[Voice from the room: Don't bother.]] [[Voice from the room: It's nothing for you.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: I spoke at the committee meeting, I told you everything at the committee meeting.]] Prison cases, ladies and gentlemen. In your time, do you know how many prisoners worked? 36%. How much today? 57%. And it hurts you. And it hurts you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] [[The voice from the room: Oh, it hurts.]] The Justice Fund - Mr Budka said so. Mr President, what illegal activities are you talking about? [[Voice from the room: CBA.]] Because Minister Kwiatkowski from here a few weeks ago said that everything was legal. [[Voice from the room: About extortion.]] That you can't say that anything was in violation of the law. Then what are you talking about? [[Voice from the room: Read the NIK report.]] Unless you're talking about yellow baby vests. Yeah, it's weighing us down. We bought 3 million vests, and you asked if the vest was protecting the baby. [[The voice of the hall: No, it is not, it is a lie.]] Yellow vest. [[Applause]] A 5-year-old child knows that, but you don't. [[The voice from the hall: Lightning struck you? Nobody asked you that.]] [[Voice from the room: Keep it down there, keep it down.]] You were even opposed to supporting volunteer firefighters. 16,000. The units have been given the funds. [[Voice from the room: Shut up.]] You were against it. That's the brutal truth. [[Voice from the Chamber: What about this debate?]] As far as the case between judges is concerned, once again, the judges... [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] ...there was no politics there: neither Minister Ziobra, nor Wójcik, nor Warchoł, nor What. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir, yes.]] Romanowski and Kaleta weren't there either. They were all judges. [[Marked.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] They were politicians on the tapes, but in the restaurant Owl and Friends. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Vice-Ziobro.]] Minister Zbigniew Ziobro made an immediate decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] First of all, resign. [[The Prime Minister is smiling.]] [[Voice from the room: The main character.]] Secondly, shortening the delegation to the Ministry of Justice. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, time.]] Thirdly, the removal of a team that dealt with disciplinary matters. [[Voices from the room: Time.]] Instant decisions. You've never been able to afford anything like this. We don't prejudice on guilt. [[Voice from the room: Who was the head of Piebiak?]] [[Voices from the room: Time.]] Excuse me, I've been interrupted for a minute. [[Voice from the room: But you're done.]] I want to tell you that politically speaking, this case is over. In a legal sense, it will be decided by the court. [[Voice from the room: Who was the head of Piebiak?]] And as for Mr. Kostecki's suicide, you can even discuss with experts. In this case, 11 people, six doctors, and you're still saying he was murdered. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] We decrypted the tape to show you what was going on in front of the cell, and you still have your opinions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: And you still have yours. Nobody's talking about vests, and you're talking about yours.]] [[Voice from the hall: And you are still yours.]] Finally, I would like to say one thing: Minister Zbigniew Ziobro is the best minister of justice after the war, not counting the dead. President Lech Kaczyński, and it hurts you. [[Applause]] We're gonna fight to make criminals always afraid of you... [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, time.]] [[Voice from the room: Conclusion.]] ...not a criminal state. Thank you. [[Long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u381	Thank you. [[Painful truth, but he must have said it.]] [[A voice from the hall: half is a lie, imaginary things.]] Mr Boris Budka on the correction, I understand, of his misunderstood speech. [[On behalf of the club.]] Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the debate... I don't think that's the point. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If you really wanted to hear it, you'd listen... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: You should have silenced your minister.]] [[A voice from the hall: But what, Marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: He was yelling at us.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from this very point of view, you can see exactly who is speaking and how he is acting. Really. [[The truth lives in silence.]] Mr. Boris Budka in correction mode. You're welcome, sir. One minute. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u382	Thank you, Marshal. As you can see, my previous speaker did not understand the substance of the plea. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the systematic use of the Justice Fund for party purposes. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Nobody's talking about the vest. They're talking about the way they buy it. [[Applause]] Nobody's talking about the sense of help, just the fact that you were really doing a private election program from the state money. NIK clearly pointed out: illegal purchase, illegal transfer of funds, 25 million, to CBA. [[Voice from the hall: What kind of fund is this? Out of the question or out of the question?]] [[It's a private fund.]] Finally, Prime Minister Morawiecki will stand here and talk about the Pegasus system. Prime Minister Morawiecki! I absolutely disagree with what your government colleague said about recording in restaurants. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, and the cards where?]] I understand that you were also recorded there without your own knowledge and will and hence this bowl of rice that politicians found out about. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Is that a corrigendum, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u383	Mr President, this was not a correction, a correction of your speech, and I would ask you to... [[Voices from the hall: He was.]] That wasn't a correction for your bad... [[Voice from the room: How can I not?]] [[Exactly.]] Absolutely not, sir. I draw your attention to that. [[He didn't understand...]] [[Voice from the room: Only for you.]] Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members! Just a moment ago we witnessed such a characteristic of the government of the PiS political heytu. Arrogance, lies, yelling. [[Applause]] But the promotion of life, Mr. Wójcik, owes you to Minister Ziobra, so you are completely unbelievable in what you say. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: And to whom do you owe?]] Minister Ziobro! Minister Piebiak, your right hand in the department, used to call himself Vice-Ziobro. Vice-Ziobro has already lost his job and it's time to settle you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every minister has political responsibility for his or her department, and every minister who runs away from this political responsibility simply does not deserve to be a minister. Today we can only wonder what is your greater fault: did you not know what was going on in your ministry, or was it that you surrounded yourself with people who organized a hater ring in the ministry? [[Voice from the room: What is this vocabulary? What ring?]] High Izbo! Today, anyone who defends Zbigniew Ziobra will defend the action of a hat that was directed at innocent people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Today's vote on Mr Zbigniew Ziobra is either a vote in favour of methods or against methods that were used in the management of your ministry. This is a vote in favour of methods or against methods of slandering, harassing people as it was in your ministry. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't yell at us.]] [[Voice from the room: The microphone is.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't yell, 'cause you can hear.]] It's a vote in favour of harassing, attacking families, loved ones, children using the meanest methods or against it. This is a vote in favour of Esbec methods or against Esbec methods. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Yeah, the Esbec methods, because the Esbec methods were that they were defaming themselves, harassing people... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...only because they had different views than power. Such methods are used today - in political police, dictatorships and, according to the media, in the direction of the Ministry of Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal!]] [[Voice from the hall: History a little.]] High Izbo! Therefore, today, when we vote on the proposal for a Ziobra, we will also set certain limits for the public debate... [[Voice from the courtroom: Can't you hear the marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u385	Member, please stop for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, please. The session is conducted by the Marshal of the Sejm, not by the State of Parliament. [[Voice from the room: Let him lead.]] I can see from all sides... [[Voice from the room: But what happens?]] Don't yell at each other because your friend can't say. He's got five minutes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Stop time.]] I draw the same attention to my colleagues on the right and on this side. [[Voice from the room: nerves, nerves.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the key duties of a Member is to respect the Marshal's orders... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But time.]] [[A voice from the room: Really?]] ...so I ask you very much to allow Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz to finish her speech. [[Voice from the room: But that way.]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u386	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we vote on the proposal for a Ziobra, we will also vote on the boundaries of the public debate. No authority, really no authority is worth reaching for as despicable methods as those used in the Ministry of Justice led by Minister Ziobra. [[Applause]] With this scale of responsibility, Minister Ziobra's resignation is really the lowest level of punishment. I really... [[Voice from the room: Shop, slap, slap.]] ...requires just decency. And the resignations of the entire management of the Ziobra ministry, together with Minister Ziobra, led by this is an absolute beginning, because the people who worked in this ministry, who organized the action of the heith against independent judges, could also commit a series of very serious crimes - exceeding powers, harassing innocent people. [[You could've done it, too, potentially.]] Therefore, the next step should be a fair prosecution. However, as long as the PiS rules, as long as the active politician is the head of the Attorney General's Office, there will be no such proceeding, there is no doubt about it. Ladies and gentlemen! This affair at the Ministry of Justice shows one more thing - that anyone who interferes with the current power can become its target. This is just the beginning, this is the tip of the iceberg. [[That's what the Platforms did.]] We can be sure that this is a promise that this political pathology is about to become a political reality. Yesterday, the targets were independent judges. And who's gonna be the target tomorrow when the PiS wins? That's what we can only guess at this point. [[Applause]] In recent days, Minister Ziobro has even attempted to intimidate journalists because he was talking about archiving materials prepared by one of TVN journalists, and this is really a clear, very readable suggestion. Dear Members and Members of the PiS! Really consider whether such party loyalty is worthy of embezzling such principles as law, decency, compassion toward innocent people who have been slandering. Think seriously, 'cause I really do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nothing will protect you from these growing political appetites of Zbigniew Ziobra. You guys could be next. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u387	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. I understand that with Mr Krzysztof Paszik on... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Exactly so, Marshal.]] [[For a partnership.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When PiS took power four years ago and there were researches on whether Poles were expecting justice reform, most Poles answered: yes, 80% was in favour of reform of the justice system. And what happened over the last four years? Have court procedures been accelerated? Have the costs of legal proceedings been reduced? [[Voice from the room: By whom?]] Is it faster to get to justice in Poland? No. [[Voice from the hall: You're blocking reform all the time.]] On the contrary. There are more policies in the justice system, procedures are chronic, lack of transparency and clarity. [[Prices have increased.]] You've made a lot of reforms, pseudo-reforms, you've made a lot of changes. But they come down to one - more justice policy, less justice in the justice system. [[Applause]] And that's the principle you're unfortunately faithful to. And when politics enters the courtroom with one door, justice escapes from the other door. You haven't made a change in any way. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The Ministry of Justice was supposed to be a manufacturer... [[A metaphor.]] [[Voice from the hall: He's crazy.]] ...good legislation, and it just became a hat factory. And that's the domain. for you - first, sharing Poles, second, stinging, poisoning hearts and minds with a severe disease of hatred. And it's not just the Ministry of Justice, because it's the government television, Kurski's TV. [[Applause]] There will be no change in the justice system, so much expected, because this part of the functioning of the state requires a great deal of recovery today. But it can be done, and it can only be done right, only when we lead to, first, the separation of the role of Minister of Justice and the Attorney General... [[It was already and it didn't work.]] ...and the choice of the Attorney General in the general election. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Minister Wójcik was just outraged about it. Minister, it was not so long ago in the Solidarna Polska programme to elect a prosecutor general in the general election. Why did you turn away from it and now you're ashamed of it and say it's the wrong solution? The next issue is the judges of peace who will solve the problems quickly... [[Game in the O.R.]] Yeah, that's an idea. Paul Kukiz, exactly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Now you like it.]] ...will quickly solve trivial problems, such as those that do not require the involvement of the entire state mechanism. KRS election in the general election. You did not amend the Law on the Supreme Court so that the Poles could pursue justice and be sure of this justice, only to politicize the Supreme Court so that your representatives could be everywhere. That was the rule. Today you are unable to show what direction the Polish justice system should go in, so that there is more civil control, that there are cheaper procedures and faster access to justice. You can't do it today because you don't have the will to do it. Our fellow countrymen may have thought that the party that has in its name the Law and Justice will want to give both the law and justice, but those written in a small letter. You're supposed to be princes of justice, and you're knights of hat and hate. We're not calling off Minister Ziobra today, and he's not the only one who's involved in all this, we're not calling off this government today. But it can be done by a nation aware of its rights and obligations, all citizens, on October 13th... [[Under the election, you just do it, the election campaign.]] ...and choose the program of the Polish Coalition and the Polish People's Party: [[Applause]] Choose an attorney general in general elections, judges of peace, cheaper costs of proceedings, faster access to justice. And that's what we're gonna do. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Long live democracy.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Pick up your foot again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u389	Thank you. There are 45 minutes left for Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, one second. But I'd be generous, wouldn't I? 45 seconds. [[Vox populi and vox Dei.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not right, Prime Minister... [[Voice from the room: Why two gentlemen from the PSL?]] ...that in the European, respectful country of the 21st century, the destruction industry would be installed in the Ministry of Justice. It's not right. [[Applause]] If the fixers of Soviet power had the Internet at their disposal, I think it would be a tool that they would mostly use. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You know something about it.]] Whatever Mr. Wójcik would throw out his aggression, his insults, his charges... [[What aggression?]] ...there is no political solution to this matter, Minister. This issue needs to be settled at political level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u391	Thank you, sir, you fit perfectly in time. Mr Maciej Mostowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15. [[Who's Mostowski? Butterfly.]] [[Voice from the room: Masłowski.]] Excuse me, sir. Excuse me. Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In this House, we have had various requests for a vote of distrust, sometimes better, sometimes worse. But the one we are discussing today is a very good conclusion, well prepared, substantive - that is exactly what it is - and it concerns a particular case. I was hoping that in the discussion we would be specific to this conclusion that we would not even judge the entire history of Minister Ziobro, but we would focus on a specific proposal. But unfortunately, when I heard the speech, I thought so, the representative of the right side, that is, the representative of Law and Justice, I did not hear any specifics related to the proposal. All I heard was a card, and all I heard was what was going on for eight years, how the predecessors ruled. This is not the case, the proposal specifically concerns the hater situation. But in a moment, a law and justice representative sat on the right side of Minister Ziobra, so I'm not surprised. I thought someone from your club was gonna perform... [[Voice from the room: Where would he sit?]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Ziobro has included one of the most important ministries in our opinion. The task was quite simple. As Mr Budek also mentioned earlier, the predecessors left the minister some tools, and the role of every subsequent government is to improve the law, to improve the state. And Minister Ziobro faced the task of improving justice reform. And the job was one thing that the citizens expected, that is to speed up the judicial process, to speed up the operation of the entire judicial system. Unfortunately, the Minister did not take care of this, even though it was expected by the citizens. He took care of the reform of the justice system, but from the other side, from staff changes, not what the citizens expected. Then the merger of the role of Minister of Justice and the Attorney General was a politicisation of the prosecution. And it is not known how this would have ended if the Court of Justice of the European Union had not blocked this part of the amendment to the Supreme Court Act. These changes in staff absolutely in no way affect the length of proceedings. And here came the judges of peace. Of course, we are pleased, as Kukiz15, that the Minister leaned over the idea of the judges of peace, but that nothing came of the leaning over it. Today, you can say, the term of office ends, and the case of the judges of peace as standing, so stands. If we were to proceed, if we were to actually work, if a team had been set up to work on this idea of peace judges, perhaps we would speed up the operation of the entire justice system. In conclusion, the proposal concerns the hater scandal. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is one. If the Minister knew about all this, about what's going on, what his deputy's doing, that the materials have been in the hands of the D.A.'s office for five months, and he didn't do anything, it's very wrong, ladies and gentlemen. There are those who believe he didn't know. But if he didn't know, it's even worse, and all the more so he doesn't deserve this position, and all the more so he should resign himself. All the more reason for the Prime Minister to dismiss him quickly, not let us waste taxpayers' money again and try to do the impossible. Because Minister Ziobro is sitting on a government bench right now, and he's calm. If nothing happens, if everyone arrives at the hour. 21, it's about the majority of the Seym, he's the one who's gonna keep the position. But is it such values that the Law and Justice represent? Shouldn't it be that you react quickly, on the basis of: the Minister of Justice is responsible for the actions of his deputies? And immediately, at this point, it should be canceled. But that did not happen. That's why if he knew, it's wrong if he didn't know, it's worse. [[The other way around.]] The proposal is entirely legitimate and I believe it will be voted out, although it is a small faith. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u393	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Confederation, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u394	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I recall those times when in 2014 there was a discussion about the justice system. After these famous 8 years, the Poles actually had enough of this system, which was against the citizen. You, the Law and Justice, you, Minister, promised that this system would be better for us, for the citizens. Not for judges, cops, etc., it'll be better for us, for the citizens. Hopes were huge, I personally had great hopes. I said, okay, you have to tighten your teeth, maybe it's not exactly elegant how you want to come to this, but maybe it's the right thing to do. Maybe it was the right thing to do. But what do we have today? Today, after these four years of government, we have such a situation that respect for a police officer has increased enormously. A real cop is on the citizen's side today, it wasn't. On the other hand, courts, prosecutors, this whole industry is still against us, still against citizens. Because what changed from a citizen's point of view? Nothing. You changed the names of the directors, but the citizen doesn't know it, and he doesn't want to know, the citizen doesn't care. A citizen goes to court for a sentence, for justice, for a solution to his problem. What's going on? A simple divorce case, Minister, can last 7 and 10 years. Divorce case. I'm not talking about some complicated property, inheritance, which lasts a dozen years. And that's what we're interested in, it hurts us, not that one judge on the other judge wrote something on the Internet. This is a very serious matter, okay, but not for me, not for the citizens who say: I want justice. [[But it is, exactly.]] I don't care if these judges like each other or not. And that's what we regret. I'm sorry we still haven't gotten this done. [[I'm not complaining. I'm sorry.]] I hear about the pay that people who work in the judiciary get, not counting the judges. These are derogatory salaries, really derogatory. All the administrative staff is earning the mean money. You promised me they'd make a normal living. [[Voice from the room: What is he talking about?]] I wanted to talk to you about something else, but Minister Wójcik, in his speech, caught the subject of children. Minister, when it comes to what your ministry has done about international child abduction situations, the Hague Convention, hats off, no one has done it better. [[Applause]] Huge respect. However, when it comes to what is happening in Poland, it is already worse. The family and caring code is from Stalinist times. You tried to change it, there was a project in the Seym, and it disappeared. He's back in the woods, and he's gone again. In the Senate, you accepted certain solutions, disappeared. For today we have the Stalin code of custody, you haven't done anything about it in four years. And then what? You mentioned, Minister, Minister Wójcik - I'm sorry, but you're also in this ministry, this is a motion for Minister Ziobra, but also for the Ministry of Justice - to fight with allies. It's a heroic fight with allies, well, that's great, but you didn't get to the root of the problem, and you know the root of the problem. It is simply about this code and the issue of regulating contacts. Why aren't you imposing the same sanctions for obstruction of contact with a child as for not paying alimony? Why? [[But progress is clear.]] The effect is that we're in the place where we are. I won't mention Pegasus again. We still don't know if this much older INDECT system is working or not working, whether you're eavesdropping, peeking. This is very important, but for us citizens, it is important that we go to court and quickly, specifically, have our case done, and unfortunately - and I say it with great regret - it is not. Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Prime Minister! This is not a political attack. This is regret and bitterness because of unfulfilled hope. I would like to believe that in the future term there will be a government that will deal with these matters faster and easier. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u395	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, Minister of Justice. [[Applause]] You're welcome. [[The president didn't bother.]] Excuse me. Just a moment ago, we had an example of a Member who spoke critically, but very calmly and culturally. I ask you to do the same now. [[This is Mr Snapshot.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It can be said that it is becoming a symbol, as I had the opportunity to speak at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the fact that exactly when the State of the Civic Platform applied for a vote of distrust for me, the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General... [[Voice from the room: Waiting for resignation.]] ...Polish prosecutors under my direction issued a provision to secure the largest in the history of the Polish prosecutor's office, the Polish judicial authorities, the amount of PLN 1400 million, [[Applause]] We've been picking up drug cartels, the mob, and those who launder dirty money. [[Voice from the Chamber: That's why they apply.]] [[And that's a breakthrough.]] The amount of PLN 1400 million - it is difficult to get used to this amount - is an amount which, you can say, almost precisely corresponds to this year's expenditure of the state budget for the program 300+ for 4,5 million Polish children. [[And on Kurski's TV.]] 4.5 million Polish children receive exactly the amount of nearly 1,400 million PLN and this is the amount of money secured by the Polish prosecutor's office. They will be at the disposal of the Polish budget, perhaps to provide next year's 300+ expedition. [[Who doesn't like it?]] Why was that possible? Well, that was made possible by a good change. It was possible that we had the majority during the vote in the Sejm, when I had the pleasure to take the initiative of the government to introduce an extended confiscation into the Polish legal order. And how did you vote? Remember how you voted? [[The voice from the room: And it hurts, it hurts.]] [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: We are not on you.]] If you had the majority - fortunately this did not happen - then again this amount of 1400 million PLN would pass around the nose of the Polish law enforcement authorities. Again, what was going on would have been what was going on for eight years of your rule. But you can say that you see some sort of consequence in your actions and in your attitude. Because let me remind you that when I left the Ministry of Justice as Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, in 2007, I left you a draft law on the expanded confiscation. A year later, we called for this bill to be adopted by you. On the way, all the countries of the European Union have accepted, without exception, an extended confiscation in their European legal order, even the European Parliament adopted a directive in 2014, and there was still only one country that consistently refused to do so. [[Voice from the room: It's unbelievable.]] Why? Doesn't that make you think? Whose business were you protecting? [[Voice from the room: Good question, why?]] What was driving you? What was driving you? [[It's scary. She can't fit in her head.]] [[Tadeusz, Tadeusz...]] What we are doing with the entire government of the United Right is giving Poles what we promised in the election, giving them a good change. This change is a real change, as even the fact I have mentioned shows, but it can also be measured differently. It can be measured at least an additional 43 billion zlotys, which in the last year have contributed to the State's VAT budget. We recovered billions because we declared war on the VAT mob. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We introduced precise rules into the Penal Code that weren't there. Do you remember the recorded conversation between your friend Donald Tusk's right-hand man, Vice-Tusk, who was Minister Grass? [[Voice from Moravian Chamber.]] Remember what Mr. Gras told me about the VAT mob? Well, he said that drugs are no longer worth trading, an expert on matter, but VAT is. VAT is growing, spreading like a stone in the Polish economy. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] There were other words that he didn't want to mention here. You knew, you were fully aware of what was going on, that Polish children, Polish families are being robbed of billions of zlotys, which are brought out by smart-ass thieves and thieves, great smart-ass thieves, often international robbers. And what did you do? You didn't do anything about it. When I became a U.S. Attorney General, I made inquiries into criminal cases that were conducted by the U.S. Attorney's Office and the law enforcement authorities in your day. It turns out that almost all these cases were handled by district attorneys, by the least experienced prosecutors. These cases, if any, were conducted because many ended in redemptions and refusals, if they had already ended in court, ended in nine cases with ten suspended sentences. Do you know what kind of business the bonzos did, who stole millions in your day, sometimes tens of millions, hundreds of millions, who got suspended? What did they think of the Polish state? [[They laughed at the vodka, that's the truth.]] Well, now that we've reformed the D.A.'s office, it's three times. more criminal proceedings, three times more suspects, defendants, three times more temporarily arrested in VAT cases. That's what the change shows. First of all, there are laws that law enforcement agencies didn't have in your day, they didn't have the opportunity, the tools that are effective. And we've introduced those rules. And how did you vote? We gave you a chance to rehabilitate. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a vote debate.]] How did you vote? As usual, predictablely, against. Against who? Against Poland, against Polish families, against the interests of the Polish budget. To whom, in whose interest did you vote? You can see your consequence: extended asset confiscation, VAT mafia regulations. Always the same. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: About.]] [[Voice from the room: Shocking.]] When I offered 25 years of imprisonment for these crimes causing enormous losses to Poland and Poles, I heard you shouting: as you can say, it is inhumane, it is exaggeration. Well, this punishment of 25 years works. A month after the Sejm's adoption, contrary to your will, these regulations can be compared month to month, year 2016 to 2017 - the VAT revenue has doubled to the Polish budget. [[Applause]] Twice a month is a measure of effectiveness. That's how we measure what we did at the Ministry of Justice. [[Voice from the room: Okęcie.]] A good change can also be measured by hundreds of thousands of children who have often received alimony for the first time in their lives... [[Yes, sir.]] ...as mentioned by Minister Michał Wójcik, from his parents, who unfortunately fulfilled their responsibilities differently, because unfortunately there were also those who failed to fulfil these responsibilities. We changed the rules, we made the law and the state practically operational. It affected the quality of life of children. That's the most important thing. [[The whole package.]] The effects of our joint work, the work of the prosecutors, law enforcement agencies and tax authorities, which were also subject to Minister Morawiecki, later Prime Minister, are bearing fruit in many areas. This can be measured, compared to what happened in your day when it comes to securing assets in criminal proceedings. Do you know how much this year the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office secured against the loss? PLN 3300 million... [[On paper.]] ...live cash, money in accounts, money in the form of real estate, yachts and luxury cars. We've secured it. [[That's not true.]] And what was the amount in your time when the last Attorney General was from the Civic Platform? There wasn't even 200 million. Compare your efficiency. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: That is not true.]] 200 million - rounded to your advantage - up to 3200 million. Do you see the difference? [[Applause]] That's the difference between a good change. [[The voice from the room: Does it hurt?]] [[That's bitter.]] This is the result of our actions. This money will be transferred to the Treasury, to the state budget, and will serve Poles, not criminals. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] Who did you care that you didn't want to introduce these solutions to? Who? Let the voters answer that question. [[That's a lie. Live cash...]] Live cash is also often secured at the scene. This is also taken over and secured. [[Lie!]] [[Voice from the hall: Speak, let the people hear.]] Don't you like that? Obviously, you don't like it. [[Yes.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: These are lies.]] You don't like these effective actions related to the prosecution reform, the law enforcement reform, because, of course, in the case of the prosecution reform, you were also against it. It's not just about combining the offices of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General. You were also against the creation of separate departments to fight economic crime. In the National Public Prosecutor's Office, a department was appointed to fight economic crime, which is the heart of a system that oversees all proceedings. Hence the results, hence the coordination, hence the efficiency and hence the results. The D.A.'s office under me isn't just organizational change that improves, professionalizes the prosecution's actions in the fight against crime, the most dangerous crime. [[It's a hat.]] It's also a change in the philosophy of her actions. The prosecution has become a security guard for Poles. [[Partisan business.]] She also protected their interests, she's a spokesperson for those who didn't have the strength to defend themselves in court. That is why she has repeatedly taken the side of the victims, of the vulnerable in civil matters. [[Like Meatball and Fisherman.]] He helps them before the courts when they are victimized on a massive scale, especially by usury crime, by wild reprivatization. I hear jokes and jokes from the D.A.'s office on the opposition bench. But you weren't laughing when Minister Wójcik reminded you of a huge affair that was happening in front of you. You closed your eyes and ears to complaints and weeping of thousands of Warsaw residents who were thrown out of Warsaw's tenement houses, who were thrown out by house cleaners. You were indifferent to their suffering. We're not indifferent. We've made changes to the D.A.'s office, which have led to the fact that almost all the cases dropped that were reported by these people in the D.A.'s office have been taken. Initially, there were nearly half a thousand proceedings. The effect of this is that we stopped this horror, the horror that met thousands of people in Warsaw. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The weakest must be helped.]] We have led to the fact that dozens of representatives of elites, establishment, bar, business, high officials of the city office of Warsaw, dozens of people have been charged, many have been arrested, 15 representatives of the Warsaw Bar, lawyers and legal counsels. These are real facts. Why didn't you do it? Why did you allow these people to throw away thousands of Warsaw tenement houses in a heartless and ruthless manner? [[Exactly.]] We've revealed nearly $0.5,000. Warsaw real estate was the subject of fraudulent practices. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] This is the result of our actions. The protection of the weakest is also served by the introduction of provisions limiting the self-will of loan companies. [[Voice from the hall: That's why this hat.]] Poland became an edorado for them in your time as a result of your changes to the legal order. [[How about a little bit about a heck?]] [[Take it easy.]] For a loan of the same amount, do you know that, the Pole pays 6 times more than Germany, 3.5 times more than the Slovak? Well, as a result of the changes we make, that will change. I thank the Prime Minister for his support for the solutions that the Ministry of Justice has prepared. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]] I am convinced that this war with usury, with dishonest usury, will end in the same success as the war with dishonest bailiffs. [[Bitter truth, bitter.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You have not accepted any changes...]] [[The voice in the room: it hurts, it hurts.]] [[Voice from the hall: In the eyes of the circle.]] [[Go ahead.]] What are you complaining about? [[Voice from the hall: Oh, hey, oh, hey.]] Apparently, it's about the effectiveness that the prosecutors are after those who are robbing the state, they're after the thieves that you've been letting go unpunished on this green island of Donald Tusk, that the prosecution is taking away their property, that we're taking out the re-privatization and the loan shark mafia, that we're done with indulging criminals who have extorted millions of dollars, while the courts have sentenced ordinary people to prison for stealing a candy bar. And that was in your day, in your rule. That's what your candidate for Prime Minister's office was talking about. Candy bars, and the VAT mob's on the loose. [[Rome and Crimea.]] [[You were the head of Piebiak?]] You're afraid that the bill we passed stopped the bailiffs' freedom. Yes, we were the ones who stopped this process, while during your governments the media regularly reported that debts were being taken away, and often not debtors, but by outsiders. [[The voice from the room: Right, right.]] The bailiffs even bid on children's toys, even though the bill didn't allow it. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] And you're complaining to us that we've put in a pedophile registry to protect the youngest from sexual crimes... [[The voice from the hall: No, the system of hatred we are complaining about.]] ...that we're done taking the kids away from our parents because of poverty and we've set up a dam... [[Voice from the hall: In your ministry.]] ... sending Polish children abroad from mixed marriages - this is the great credit of Minister Wójcik... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Glory.]] [[Kids need to be protected.]] [[Voice from the room: Children, not thieves.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...that we ask for Polish entrepreneurs, cheated and bankrupted by foreign companies in the construction of roads and highways. We've launched an investigation into this, and we've taken on a lot of cases that have been dropped in your day. A lot of indictments went to court. We demand the same compensation for the victims and at the same time have prepared a law which, if it comes into force, will permanently resolve this situation. [[Last minute.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have made a lot of changes that have been made, you can say, a breakthrough in the Polish justice system, but we have also started a battle in the area of the judiciary. This battle continues and this battle is a constant challenge for us, among others. because instead of working beyond divisions in terms of changes in the judiciary, instead of doing so with us, which you yourselves could not do, you decided to throw logs at our feet, you decided to put sand in our mouths together with the European Commission, along with a group of judges... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...from Iustitia and other organizations who have lost their influence in the judiciary and who have decided to hinder... [[Voice from the room: Timmermans.]] [[Don't pity me.]] ...the course of the reform, which decided to prolong the procedure by an Italian strike. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, it is not as Minister Budek said, that the proceedings have now suddenly started to drag on, and earlier, under the Platform's rule, I understand, these proceedings have accelerated. It's exactly the opposite. In your rule, these actions have also been consistently delayed, even more so than they are now. We are the ones who have slowed down this tendency to extend civil proceedings. [[You can check.]] These are facts, hard facts. However, it is true that there is a fundamental change ahead of us, but we can only make it if we complete this great plan for judicial reform that we have undertaken. It became very bad that there were judges, also in the Ministry of Justice, who decided on private forums to use hate speech, to conduct actions of a heiter nature. That kind of behavior... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska:...people for special tasks.]] ...if they confirm themselves in court because they question the truth of many of these statements, point to manipulation, court trials, the presumption of innocence... Well, in this case, I have drawn immediate consequences to those who have been suspected that they might have played a negative role. [[The ones you're hiring, right?]] We canceled every single one of those people who showed up on those boards. [[Except for me.]] We have also achieved the consequences through the initiation of disciplinary proceedings and through the initiation of criminal proceedings. We reacted completely differently than you react in identical situations. Look at how you're reacting to... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...Mr. Gawłowski, Secretary of the Civic Platform, charged with criminal charges, [[Applause]] Who was in custody. I think this is the first case... [[How's the Mirror on your list?]] ...that you're going to the Sejm from custody. What consequences do you draw on Mr. Neumann, the head of the parliamentary club charged with criminal charges, that he supported the conclusion of an NFZ agreement with a company that cheated patients? What standards do you apply? [[But time's up, Minister. Time's up.]] [[The moral right to criticism...]] Well, we are in line with the highest standards, we are explaining this matter disciplinaryly, criminally, through conduct, and we will consistently explain all other matters if they occur. But we need to see this story in a full context, we need to see that this hat, which took place, did not appear now, suddenly, because of the publication of Onet, this hat lasted for 4 years. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] It was a hat that was directed to often working judges with us from these parliamentary benches, from the opposition benches. It was also a hat led by judges... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...in front of the judges, the judges you refer to as your pets, your authority: Mr. Tulei, Mr. Zurek and the other judges of Iustitia, the judges who... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] ...directed to the employees... [[Minister, time.]] ...in the ministry, these are the terms. I've written down some of them, and I think it should give you some thought. [[It's hard to lie, isn't it?]] [[Minister, time is up.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Court.]] They're disgraced, they're practicing dudes, they're selling, they're destroying the courts, they're gravediggers, they're used, they're accounted for, they're legal dummies, they're embarrassed, they're Judas, they're compromised, they're unworthy, they're dishonest, and so on. [[What do you say?]] What are the words? Is this a speech of love, a speech of peace, a speech of diplomacy or is this a speech of hatred? [[But your marshal, three minutes.]] [[And the truth hurts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u397	Minister, we have to go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u398	This is an example of numerous speeches by various judges, various resolutions, comments that were made to judges working at the Ministry of Justice who respected the democratic verdict. [[Piebiak was an employee...]] I'd like to thank these hundreds of judges... [[And those haters, right?]] [[A voice from the hall: the Heyters?]] ...who cooperate with us, who have not succumbed to emotions who have not committed such unworthy behaviours and practices and who for 4 years have endured such insults and hats led from the benches of the opposition and from part of the judge's community who have lost privileges and influence. [[I'm afraid so.]] We must complete and complete the reform of the justice system, we will also complete the reform of the judiciary and the effects will be the same as in the case of confiscation, it is about PLN 1400 million. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, time.]] It's the same with the judiciary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u399	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u400	It'll be as effective as it is. And show the Poles... [[The Marshal shuts off the microphone, the minister speaks with the microphone off.]] ...that you can. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Your marshal, four minutes of insolent propaganda. This is presumptuous propaganda.]] [[Voice from the room: 4 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u401	Minister, I'm sorry. Thank you. I now ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak. [[Voice from the courtroom: Straight from the courthouse.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no one to defend, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the case which was at the heart of the motion to dismiss the Minister of Justice, we acted quickly and very properly. [[Voice from the hall: What?]] [[Voice from the room: Model.]] Minister Ziobro responded immediately. It was a case that could certainly be called an argument in the family. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Voice from the room: Have you read Kaczyński's message?]] An argument in the family of judges, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Because some judges were actually defending and defending the old order so that things would be as they were. [[Voice from the room: Who writes this to you?]] [[Yes, sir.]] But in the process of repairing the justice system, there have also been judges who want to fix reality... [[Who were recruited by Ziobro.]] ...who do not agree to the low quality of the justice system that took place in the times of the Third Republic. That's why the reaction on the former Minister Piebiak case was quick and immediate. I also understand the emotions on the side of the opposition bench here, because your motion is pointless. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] You're referring to a reality that was quickly repaired. [[Which he doesn't have.]] But, by the way, I am also very surprised at some of the wordings in this conclusion, because you see certain behaviors in only one part, the one that concerned the matter of the correspondence of Minister Piebiak, and you do not see the reprehensible wordingsible on the part of the judges whom you applaud. [[Voice from the hall: Marked.]] What's significant is that you're looking at this process unilaterally. [[Yes.]] You haven't seen the great pyramid of Amber Gold before, bigger than the pyramid of Cheops... [[Voices from the room: SKOK-i.]] ...you didn't see or didn't want to see the VAT gap, as big as the huge waste water spill in Warsaw, unfortunately, and at the same time... [[50,000. In an envelope.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...respectful state, you demand indirectly from the Minister of Justice to control the phones of his subordinates. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: He controls them all anyway.]] I don't know, I think you have some authoritarian urges. [[Applause]] I do not know what the Commissioner, one of the Commissioners, who is often called upon by the opposition, would say, but of course we do not allow such standards. It's hard for the head of the institution to control the phones of all its subordinates. It was neither possible nor our standards. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is pointless, but let me also refer for a few minutes to the quality of the justice system we have inherited, as well as to the changes you have questioned and introduced by us. Well, you often rely on Western, French, German standards. I just don't know if you know what these standards are. [[And you carry out...]] I don't know if you know that there is a Richterwahlausschuss in Germany, such a jury committee consisting of 32 - attention - only politicians. This is their national judicial council, consisting of 32 politicians only. [[Voice from the room: What do you say?]] [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[Voice from the room: They didn't know.]] [[Voice from the room: Read.]] And you don't question their standards. In the meantime, we reformed the National Council of Courts in such a way that it is composed in most cases of judges, but also of representatives of other key political bodies in Poland, and you are questioning the mechanism of the establishment of the National Council of Courts. It is similar with Spanish, French mechanisms. There was no counter-argument on the other side of Brussels when I presented how we reform the justice system. [[Applause]] It was just juking, because that's what it has to be called, in the European Commission, on your part, towards some politicians who led to unnecessary polarization, which in turn translated into a deep mutual dislike in the judicial environment. [[You know this is anti-Semitic...]] [[That's a good word: Judging.]] You say, ladies and gentlemen, in your motion... Very often it falls here, from this bleacher, the word "hate." Well, it's good to recall that word in your context, because you were the founding fathers of the contempt industry. [[Applause]] It started in 2005, when you started destroying President Lech Kaczyński and then - the voices of Mr Niesiołowski, Mr Palikot... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Komorowski.]] ...and all the others who only aroused hatred were certainly the probabilities of this hat, which today is actually too much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[And that's why you worked for Tusk. Superlogic.]] Hit your own chest and try to eliminate this language of hatred from your narrative, from your rhetoric. [[Voice from the room: On the list they took...]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about irregularities that were quickly eliminated. And why did you hide Mr. Breeza now? [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] Let me ask you a question for a second. [[Voice from the room: Where is Brejza?]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] Let that question hang in the air. Let it hang in the air for a moment. You let your heads down, and I'll tell you why you hid Mr. Breeza. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] Because in Inowroclaw, as the media report, on the example of many concrete behaviors... [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] [[The voice from the room: the PiS clerk.]] [[Voice from the room: What media?]] According to various media reports, something far worse, far more reprehensible, occurred in Inowroclaw. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[The voice from the room: Disgusting...]] Well, it's likely that there's been a use of public institutions, which is... [[And you hid your wife's fortune, Prime Minister.]] [[Keep it down there, keep it down. Don't scream.]] [[Show your wife's fortune...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u403	Prime Minister, I'm sorry. Excuse me, Prime Minister. Mr President, you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. I remind you, I draw your attention. This is unacceptable, your behavior... [[Tell him to reveal his wife's assets.]] You talk to me like that again, you'll be punished. One more thing, Prime Minister, one more moment, you still have your microphone off. This is outrageous behavior, sir, unacceptable... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Exactly.]] [[The Prime Minister's acting unacceptably, Marshal.]] Mr President, if you do not want to listen to this debate, you can go out into the cockroaches. [[I'm listening.]] But if you stay, let the Prime Minister finish. [[Thank you.]] You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Voice from the O.R.: Finish it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, the matter that I have now referred to is a matter of the utmost importance, comparable to what you refer to in your proposal. [[Voice from the room: quieter, quieter.]] Because a public institution most likely, as the media informed us, was used by high officials for hating purposes. It's hard to imagine more outrageous, more reprehensible behavior. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is astonishing, because indeed such deeply corrupt ways of reacting, acting, also on your side, especially on your side, with judges, are indeed reprehensible. The reaction should be immediate. Just like us. On your side. You didn't respond to that. Meanwhile, as I said, it is something to do, it is something to reform, because the justice system, the good one, can be either a flywheel of economic development or a big ball of arms. And I'm saying it from that bleacher. The justice system was a big ball at the foot of the development of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[After four years, it gets worse.]] Mr Grabarczyk agreed with me: and after four years it is even worse. I agree with some of the statements made by the Member, because in this sentence... [[Completely, completely, Prime Minister.]] ...it sounds like he was a ball of development in the Third Republic. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Totally.]] A few examples, however, are sufficient. Some have already been touched here. E.g. conviction for fine and for a few days in custody of the person who stole the candy bar for 99 gr... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] Oh, you hear me? When we intercede for someone weaker, for someone poor, there is a groan of contempt on this side. [[This is embarrassing.]] [[Voice from the hall: A sick man put in prison...]] [[50,000. In an envelope...]] No, these are the weaker people we stand for. In Wrocław court - I don't know, it didn't happen today - there was a judgment and justification on a copy-paste basis. That was the quality. When Judge Moraczewka got along with Judge Pietrzkowski, where was the stigmatization? Show me at least one case of politicalisation of a court order. Show influence in our time, though in one case, on any case of court. [[Voice from the hall: In your time...]] There's no such example, and I can give you one. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] In the most famous case, which concerned the largest financial pyramid in the history of the Third Republic, Amber Gold. [[The skoks.]] There was a case where Judge Milewski was ready because he didn't know who he was talking to, to turn the case over to a judge who would have handled the case in a manner that would have been indispensable to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. [[SKOK-i.]] Isn't that reprehensible? Is that the behavior you'd like to defend? That's why we had to undertake a thorough recovery of the justice system. [[Applause]] And we've taken it upon ourselves. [[I don't think so, 'cause it's worse.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Didn't you finally get in the way of an issue that is extremely harmful to this environment? Nemo judex in sua causa - no one should be a judge on their own case. [[Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Let's get to work.]] Wasn't it that the judges chose themselves? The judges judged themselves, the judges rewarded themselves, the judges disciplined themselves... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: They have advanced.]] Well, maybe it wasn't crazy about it, because I don't know any cases of serious discipline. [[Applause]] And therefore, High Izbo, further reformation is needed. Minister Ziobra's reaction was correct and quick to misbehave... [[Since when did he have those calls?]] I appeal to the High House and to the opposition for the same, very similar treatment of cases which - I will be gracious - are similar in their characteristics. But as the media reports, perhaps the one for which high officials associated with the Civic Platform are responsible, perhaps, if what the media writes is true, is far worse, because it involves using public money, if what the newspapers write is true. [[Voice from the auditorium: Gazeta Polska.]] And that's what you should be referring to. This is highly reprehensible behavior. [[Voice from the room: Massacre.]] Therefore, High Izbo, of course we will ask for the rejection of this proposal, and therefore I would like to stress that further reform of the justice system is necessary for the proper development of Poland, for the sake of Poles. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u405	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. [[Cancel the motion.]] We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 21. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 56 hours 21 min 01]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. The competent committees have submitted additional reports on draft laws: - amending the Water Law Act and certain other laws, - to work on fishing vessels. The reports shall be printed in no 3741-A and in no 3738-A respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the third reading of these draft laws. The formal proposal was made by Michał Mazowiecki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: PSL.]] You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It's very awkward, but I'm gonna do it because I think it's a very important thing. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] I would like to tell you and draw your attention - I am talking about this because there is a break in the session of the Sejm - that tomorrow 30 years have passed since the appointment by the Sejm of the Polish People's Republic of the Government with the first non-communist Prime Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the People's Room...]] Yes, the Sejm of the Polish People's Republic. After the round table, elections took place on 4 June. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] I'd like to ask you... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...about a memory and a moment of silence for the people who were in that government who were gone and who are no longer among us. To the former ministers of that government who are, live... [[Voice from the room: And to the Prime Minister.]] ...and the Prime Minister of that government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Voice from the room: Especially Kiszczak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u407	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras made a formal request. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u408	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! We're about to start voting block. One of the first votes will be to vote on the information on the property of Prime Minister Morawiecki, which we submitted in May. The parliamentary majority will probably reject this proposal. Therefore, your marshal, I would like to point out that in the article. 173, which does not really involve discussion and questions at this point, says that this is done without discussion, but the marshal presents the matter to the High House. So I'd like to ask the marshal to introduce you to this case. This is because we are dealing with an extraordinary situation. Well, for the first time in 30 years, we are dealing with a prime minister we do not know what kind of property he has. The Prime Minister who hid his fortune. A prime minister who hides a fortune from the public. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Hiding.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Therefore, your marshal, before most of the PiS reject the request for this information, I would ask that your marshal, in accordance with the article. 173, she introduced to us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the point of this proposal? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: She's ashamed.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u409	I would like to inform you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it has not been four months. [[But that's not the point.]] There you go. I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition has applied for items to be added to the agenda: - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Criminal Code Act and the Act on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on information disclosed in the media regarding the clearance granted to him from Bank BZ WBK (now Santander), - Information from the Attorney General and the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the coordinator of special services in the field of information disclosed in the media about the blackmail application sent by Marek Falenta to the President, as well as information on the actions taken by the prosecutor's office since the request was received by the President of the Republic of Poland. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, the time limit referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed to the vote on the proposal for a bill amending the Penal Code Act and the Act on the Ombudsperson of Children's Rights. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. 173 voted against 221 and 1 abstention. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the request for information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the information disclosed in the media regarding the clearance granted to him from Bank BZ WBK. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 171 voted against - 234, 5 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. [[What are you hiding?]] [[The voice from the hall: What a shame.]] [[Shame.]] We proceed with the vote on the request for information from the Attorney General regarding the media information related to the request for the pardon of Mark Falenty. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 173 votes against, 234 against and 10 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We return to item 15 on the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebrara, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 174, against - 240, 7 stopped. [[Applause]] The Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust in the absence of the required majority of votes. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of priest Władysław Gurgach on the 70th anniversary of his death. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3764. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 3764, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For -404, 1 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of priest Władysław Gurgacz on the 70th anniversary of his death. [[Applause]] We would like to return to the discussion of item 52 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Les. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 3825 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 65th anniversary of the imprisonment of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Prudnik-Les. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.3754, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. It was 278, 140 against, one holding back. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 3806. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3806 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 414 was for, 1 against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3802. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3802 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 399 was for, 1 against, 18 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental bill amending the law on the income of local government units. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3782-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u410	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The Public Finance Commission at its meeting examined this draft law and recommends that the High House adopt this draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u411	Thank you, sir. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 3782. The committees also present in an additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the only amendment to the article. 1 of the draft law amending applicants propose that the existing paragraphs 1 to 4 be marked as points 5 to 8 and that points 1 to 4 be added. The committees are filing for rejection. The question was raised by Mr Jacek Protas. You're welcome, sir. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! For the last 4 years, you have shown very clearly your attitude towards local government in Poland, in general to any local government. You would be willing to eliminate all forms of self-government so that political governors can also rule in cities, municipalities and counties. Over the past few years, you've been cutting the revenue of the local government, imposing tasks on it without funding. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: No, it is not.]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] You were limiting his ability to act. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: 22 million...]] Today, local government in Poland is in a very difficult financial situation. Therefore, this amendment, which we have tabled and which we will be voting on in a moment, gives you the opportunity to help the local government carry out its tasks, very important tasks. 6.5 billion PLN per year thanks to this amendment for strengthening [[♪ The bell ♪]] local government and the provision of services that the local government provides to each of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u413	Thank you, sir. Because there was no question, there can be no answer. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 182 - for, against - 230, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was raised by Krystyna Skowrońska. One minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's worth listening to and reminding. For the last four years, you have shifted tasks, responsibility and implementation to local governments. We have this example in the field of education. For the last four years, you have not been able to prepare a system solution allowing for equalisation of local government income, support for poorer local governments. For the last four years, you have promised to make up for regional differences. You didn't do it. It didn't work out. As usual. Prime Minister! Why have you been robbing local governments of their money for the last four years? Citizens are going to get hurt. Why are you stealing from local governments? [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] I would ask the Prime Minister to answer about this theft in local governments. You haven't done anything in the last four years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for local governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u415	The question was raised by Mr Jerzy Polakzek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of these questions, addressed to representatives of the government, regarding the financial situation of local authorities, I would like to present data from Piekar Śląskie concerning the income from PIT tax in 2014 and 2019. Implementation of PIT tax in 2014, during the rule of the Civic Platform, in the city of 50 thousand - 49 612 thousand. Implementation of PIT for 2018 - 78 205 thousand zł. [[Applause]] Implementation of PIT for the first half of 2019 - 54 million, [[Applause]] That's 108 million in a year. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Where was the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u417	That, of course, was not a question, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3782, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 417 was for, against - 2, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the income of local government units. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3786-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Czech to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I present an additional report by the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law, print no.3762. The Health Committee, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 11 September, asks the Sejm to accept the following amendments. 1. The amendment consists of a five-fold reduction of the penalty in relation to the original draft. 2. The amendment concerns the implementation by hospital rescue units of the TOPSOR system and medical segregation. 3. the amendment extends the vacathio legis to the provisions concerning the prohibition of sub-contracting. This is justified by the objective difficulties of entrepreneurs in fulfilling these obligations. The Health Committee calls for a vote on the 1st amendment in favour, for a vote on amendments 2 and 3 together and for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u419	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3786. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. Minority requests from 1 to 3 and Amendment 1 have been submitted to Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law Act. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a different wording of Article. 127cb. This proposal is accompanied by a proposal 3. We will vote on these proposals together. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 1st amendment and the 2nd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. It was 166 against 248 and 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph 127cb. 4 and delete paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the second minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. It was 275 against 136, 2 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Therefore, the second minority proposal to Article. 127cb has become unobtrusive. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 19 Act amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render the 4th minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. It was 407, against - 10, 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. 4. The minority proposal has become pointless. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3786, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 411 was in favor of, against - 1, holding off on 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3809-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u420	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws. Eight amendments were tabled at second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting them and adopting the draft law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u421	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3809. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. In the first amendment to Article. 35 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. First and second sentences, paragraph 1. 3a, paragraph. 5 and paragraph 5. 6. Amendments 3, 5 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u422	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! With these amendments, we want to restore the constitutionality of the project, because we are so concerned that these provisions, which are, therefore, unconstitutional, are to reject the entire law in the Constitutional Court in the future. Where did this bill come from? What's the problem? In the spring of this year it turned out that Prime Minister Morawiecki bought a priceless plot, which increased its value from day to day. [[Voice from the room: Mother-in-law.]] So? And he gave it to his wife as a separate property. Just now Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke very high-flying words about morality, about honesty. Prime Minister! Be honest and decent, show your wife's wealth, and don't turn the Polish legal order upside down. [[Applause]] [[This is his fortune, not his wife's. Hidden.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u423	That was not a question, sir. Please don't abuse this mode. We'll proceed with the vote. [[The truth will set us free.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments: 1, 3, 5, 7, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 161 was in favour, against - 242, 6 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 35 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 5. This amendment is combined with the 6th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question was raised by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome. One minute, sir. Just a question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Could it be possible to include Members of Parliament in the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator in order to behave decently? [[Exactly.]] We just leaned over the dead members of Tadeusz Mazowiecki's government and over himself. Two Members of Law and Justice have not stood up ostensibly. I'm just embarrassed. I'm just embarrassed. [[Applause]] [[Names.]] Think about it, gentlemen. Mr Melak, if someone didn't want to honor your brother's memory, what would you do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u425	Mr President, you have abused this statement because it was not a question for the amendment. [[The voice from the room: The truth hurts.]] That wasn't an amendment question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 162 was for, 245 against, 7 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. Amendment 4 was tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act amending the Act on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions. In its amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3a in Article 10. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. But I would ask you very much to ask a question to this amendment. You're welcome, sir, okay? May I have this? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: He can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Of course there will be a question for this amendment, but I must explain what is in this amendment. [[Voice from the room: We can read.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u427	It is a question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u428	Well, the other day, we saw you on the Internet, you're in trouble, and it's serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u429	I would very much like to ask you to ask me a question for the amendment. [[What's this?]] [[The voice from the room: He's talking about the amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We want to reject this amendment, which PiS adopted at first reading during the committee meeting. And in this amendment of the PiS we find this passage: the person receiving the declaration may decide to include the information contained in the security statement provided for classified information: reserved. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] In such a situation, not only secrecy is introduced at the committee meeting, but also a clause is introduced: reserved. It means that someone who reveals this property statement will be prosecuted by the state. Prime Minister, why did your people make this amendment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: To show...]] It's not enough that you're secreting property claims, you want to prosecute people for exposing them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u431	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Kaczyński, this is public.]] (PL) Mr President, Mr President, [[But he's telling the truth.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 415 Members voted. 165 was in favor, against 238, 12 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 8th Amendment to Annex 1, applicants shall propose a different wording of point IX. The Commission requests that it be rejected. [[Nobody has the guts...]] Mr Jarosław Urbaniak will ask the question. One minute, sir. And the answer to the previous question was in this Chamber because I was present during the debate, Mr. [[Voice from the room: But now it is.]] [[About wealth, about wealth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't hear that answer because the answers to my questions are being avoided and at the committee meeting, and here, in this courtroom. [[Voice from the room: You don't have the guts.]] This amendment concerns the annexes, i.e. the printing of the statement of property. And I wanted to ask, because since always, since when property claims in Poland are in operation, point IX of this document reads: other income generated by employment or other activities, etc., etc. Over the years, persons who should have completed their claims on property entered: others. Other is in Polish means: other, not these. That is to say, remuneration other than those for which persons have received their duties and for which they make claims on property. At one time no one else, like President Lech Kaczyński, did not write his presidential salary because he understood Polish well and logically understood that other means: different, not presidential. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you can't accept a simple apolitical amendment like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u433	Thank you, sir, time is up. That wasn't a question. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] Mr... Yes? Answer? You're welcome. You have received an answer, sir. You're welcome, Prime Minister Sasin. [[But there was no question.]] [[Voice from the room: There was no question.]] There you go. [[Voice from the room: We'll see about that.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't praise the day.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This question can be answered in this way: it is necessary to be able to make amendments, Mr President, because if an amendment is tabled only to one form and not to all, it can only be a vote on this amendment, as at the committee meeting. [[Applause]] But as far as the previous question is concerned, you were just saying that you were accusing us of not being able to read, as I understand it, unlike you... [[No, we accused you of hiding a fortune.]] ...so I'm sending you back to the recipe you asked that question about. It clearly states that the clause: reserved is applied to statements made by the heads of special services and not to all. So either you can't read, or you just walk on the stand and mislead the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Read, read, read.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u435	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Corrigendum.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. It was 163 against 236, 18 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Voice from the room: But...]] Before the end, Mr... [[Your Marshal, Minister... the Prime Minister was clearly referring to me.]] No, sir, no. [[It's clear to me.]] [[Voice from the room: To the whole.]] Sit down, sir. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki with a question. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u436	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to read the text of the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice: Information contained in the property statement referred to in paragraph. 1 and 1a, submitted by the Head of the Internal Security Agency, the Head of the Intelligence Agency, the Head of the Military Counterintelligence Service and the Head of the Military Intelligence Service, constitute a legally protected secret and shall be subject to the protection provided for classified information. So, sir, lie, lie and lie again. And finally, the most important thing. [[That's the question, isn't it, Marshal?]] From what comes from the Council of Europe, on the part of GRECO, you choose only what is beneficial for you, to cover all possible wiles, but you do not have the courage to accept a legal solution that will show all these networks of dependencies and links. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u437	I didn't hear any questions. Mr Urbaniak. I hope I hear the question. [[In corrigendum mode, right?]] You're welcome. One minute. [[But in corrigendum mode?]] No. You wanted to ask a question, okay? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But what's the corrigendum?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u438	Mrs. Marshal! There is a situation that both the Prime Minister and the President used the word lies three times. [[Voice from the room: Into the microphone.]] I have this amendment, Mr President. She starts with that mouth. 3a is replaced by the following: Information contained in the statement of assets referred to in paragraph. 1, submitted by Marshal of the Sejm, Marshal of the Senate, President of the Council of Ministers... And here's the part I read. This isn't about the Secret Service. [[Applause]] And the question with regard to the whole bill, because this law after rejecting these amendments is one big bubble, has many holes and above all has a constitutional error. I just wanted to ask you, Prime Minister, if this constitutional error is so that the Constitutional Tribunal rejects this law in its entirety, and your spouse's assets are still secret, whether that is why of all the persons who are listed in this law and are obliged to make a declaration of property, only [[♪ The bell ♪]] one person He's not subject to a penalty for false information on his assets. And that's who? President of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u439	You will answer Prime Minister Sasin. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Some Members chant: Show the plot! Let's see the plot! Let's see the plot!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can yell at you, really, I can handle it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u441	Prime Minister, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, do you need a break? I can call a break. [[The cannons!]] Member, please... [[Game in the O.R.]] Madame, it is not your first year in the benches that you should know that the dignity of the Member does not look that way. [[And true, the Prime Minister too.]] [[Voice from the room: O Krystyna, sit down.]] Please, Prime Minister Sasin wants to give...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u442	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u443	...the answer to the question that Mr Urbaniak asked. Let's let the Prime Minister answer that question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u444	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! You really need to be able to read or apply this law to those provisions that have been so far. The Lord accuses us that there are certain provisions in this Act that have been in it for years, because precisely this provision, which concerns employees of the National Bank of Poland only and exclusively. Check it out, Mr, Art. 2 point 6d, who is involved, and then come out here and make provocative statements. [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister said, didn't he?]] However, what you said in addition is more important in this matter. You were talking about your opposition to the fact that the disclosure of wealth was also about the children of politicians, the most important people in the country. You want to limit that transparency. And I know why you want to limit it - because we all remember in this House the casus of one of your ministers who bought a lot of money with money that we don't know where he owned it and then quickly signed it over to his daughter so that we didn't have to put it in a property statement. Today this minister is no longer a minister, he is not a member of your party... [[Prime Minister!]] ...because you kicked him out because he turned out to be a bad guy. And that's why such cases that have happened in your party make us have to introduce such rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u445	Thank you, Prime Minister. [[You should have answered the questions.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 3809, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. It was 258, [[Applause]] 22 - against, with 139. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3826. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 3826 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 408 was for, against - 4, 1 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on Trade Inspection. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3784-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u446	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Five amendments were tabled during the second reading of the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Commercial Inspection Act. The Committee on the Economy and the Committee on the Environment have examined these amendments. Amendment 2 introduces an exemption from personal income tax, i.e. from PIT, for all grants and other non-refundable benefits received from national and voivodship environmental funds for individual environmental projects. The beneficiaries of the Clean Air scheme already benefit from such exemption in accordance with the amendment made in November of the previous year. Now, the income tax exemption will benefit individuals, farms, companies, small plants that set up photovoltaic micro-installations, e.g. as part of my current programme. Amendments 3 and 4 require the use of system heat where there are technical conditions to deliver it, which is better for the air condition, because heating plants must use industrial filters, so they do not pollute air and the scale effect allows to reduce the costs of supplied heat. There will be no obligation to connect to the system heat when a low emission individual heat source is installed or when the price of the system heat is uncompetitive. Amendment 5 in turn introduces a reduced VAT rate, i.e. 8% instead of 23% , for the supply and construction of a micro-installation of RES, which is functionally related to the building, regardless of whether this micro-installation is located in the building's brills or outside of it. This is an obvious elimination of the nonsense of varying VAT rates depending on the location of the micro-installation. Amendment 1 concerns the title of the Act and is the consequence of all the amendments under discussion from 2 to 5. High Izbo! All amendments received a strong majority recommendation from the combined economic and environmental committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u447	Thank you, Member. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print No 3784. The committees also present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose to give a different wording to the title of the Act. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 274 were in favour, against - 133, 13 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 1a in the draft amending act. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 268 was in favor, against - 6, 134 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 1b in the draft amending act. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 257 were in favor of, against - 133, 22 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 2a in the draft amending act. The committees are asking for her party. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u448	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! November 22nd Ub. In the evening in this House, like today, we voted on a project of the Polish People's Party, which assumed to reduce the VAT rate from 23% to 8%. It was impossible at the time. At the time, this was contrary to European Union law. What happened that could be done today? Why did you have to wait a year? How much did investors lose, prosumers who invested in renewable energy installations? My next question: If these investors ask the Prime Minister today to return the overpaid VAT... Because at the moment the minister says that it was nonsense to maintain diversity, i.e. 23% and 8%. When I put it next to my house, I got 23%, and when I put it on the roof of my house, I got 8%. That's 15%. differences at significant costs. Will you repay these investors with overpaid VAT? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u449	Thank you. The answer will be answered by Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u450	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption of a uniform VAT rate for energy, renewable energy is, of course, a logical consequence of the programmes implemented, among others. My current, Agroenergia and Clean Air programmes. Hence the decisions to treat all investments in renewable energy equally. We reduce VAT from 23% to 8% regardless of placement. Hence, among others. It's a decision. [[An answer, not a story.]] Of course, I can regret that for many previous years, including your governments, this rate has varied. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u451	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 299 was for, against - 77, 41 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3784, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 414 was for, against - 2, 1 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Water Law Act and certain other laws (prints no. 3695, 3741 and 3741-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Materna to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the second reading of the bill, the Law and Justice Club submitted one amendment. At today's meeting, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation considered the amendment and recommended that the High House adopt the amendment and the whole of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u453	Minister! I have been informed for some time that, in connection with the plans to expand and raise the class of certain inland waterways, local authorities with bridge crossings receive guidance on the parameters that must be met by the new bridge in case of renovation. This often involves the need for significant road reconstruction, and therefore there is a significant increase in investment costs. In order to improve the financing of tasks, do you also provide for measures to support local governments facing these challenges? The lack of aid from the State budget may result in the suspension or even cancellation of a number of important investments which will still have to be financed if the sailing class is to be raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u454	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3741. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment to the article. 394 Water law law applicants propose to amend paragraph 1. Point 1 (9). The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 420 was in favor, no one was against, two stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.3741, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 279 was for, against - 126, 5 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government draft law on work on fishing vessels (prints 3712, 3738 and 3738-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Wolf to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u455	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Maritime Affairs and Shipping Commissions and Social and Family Policy at their meeting on 11 September considered the amendment tabled at the second reading of the draft law on work on fishing vessels, prints 3712 and 3738. At the second reading, one amendment was tabled to correct the incorrect reference in Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 draft law on work on fishing vessels. Currently Art. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 wrongly refers to Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 3, whereas it should refer to Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 projects. The intention of reference in Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the project is the obligation to provide fishermen with free food and drinking water also on fishing vessels less than 12 m in length. Such an obligation shall be provided for in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 projects. In the current wording, the provision of the Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 was wrongly referred to the article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 which concerns the conduct of an occupational risk analysis, which, in accordance with Council Directive 159/2017 of 19 December 2016, applies only to larger fishing vessels. Without opposition, the Commission accepted this amendment. The committees request both the amendment and the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u456	Thank you, sir. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no.3738. The committees present in the additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 applicants propose e.g. change of reference. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 414 was in favor of, against - 2, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.3738, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 407 was for, against - 2, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on working on fishing vessels. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft Public Procurement Law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3759-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to present an additional report to the committee. Is Mr Murdzek here?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an extremely important bill, it is a newly written law of public procurement. Since the Act contains 623 articles, and the next one - the introductory provisions are also extensive, I will allow myself to limit myself to recommending the procedure according to the committee's recommendations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u458	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3759. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. It was 176, 228--against, holding off on 17. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) of the applicant proposes to delete point (a). d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. It was 159, 225 against, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a different wording of point 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 390 was in favor, 6 against, 19 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 applicants propose a different wording of point 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 397 were in favor, against - no one, holding 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose to add paragraph. Two and three. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 165 was in favor, against - 230, 14 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 166 was for, against - 228, 17 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 48 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. Two and three. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 8 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. It was 165, 240 against, 19 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 48 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. 244 was in favor, 134 against, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 56 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. Amendment 10 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 166 was for, 234 against, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 74 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. Amendments 27 and 40 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 12 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 11, 27 and 40 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 399 was in favor of, against - 3, holding off on 19. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The 12th amendment is without object. In the 13th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 95. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. It was 162, 229 against, 17 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 101 applicants propose, among others: the other wording of paragraph. from 4 to 6. Amendment 54 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 14 and 54 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. It was 395, 4 against, 19 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 15th amendment to the article. 108 applicants shall propose in paragraph 1. 1 add points 7 and 8, other wording of paragraph. 2 and the addition of paragraph 2. 3. Amendment 17 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 15 and 17 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. It was 174, 226 - against, 19 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 16th amendment to the article. 110 applicants shall propose in paragraph 1. 2 the other wording of points 1 and 2 and in point 3 the other wording of the entry into the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 395 was for, against - 5, 19 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 113. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 167, against - 228, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The applicants propose to delete the words or selection criteria. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. It was 162 against 238 and 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph 131. 2. Amendments 21, 34 and 39 are combined with this amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 32 and 33. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 20, 21, 34 and 39 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 270, against - 133, 20 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 139 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3 and 4. Amendment 38 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 22 and 38 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 397, no one was against, 20 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 23rd amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Amendments 26, 28 and 31 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 23rd, 26th, 28th and 31st, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 394, no one was against, 20 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 24th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in Amendment 41 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 24 and 41 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 398 was for, 1 against, 20 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 25th amendment to the article. 156 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 390 - in favour, no one voted against, 18 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 applicants propose a different wording of point 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 30 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 160 was for, 231 against, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in paragraph 224. 3 the other wording of point 4 and the addition of paragraph. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 270 - for, 126 - against, abstained 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 32nd amendment is without object. The 33rd amendment is also without object. In the 35th amendment to the article. 242 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. It was 164 against 234, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 36th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 246. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 157 was for, 232 against, 19 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 37th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 261. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 155 - for, 237 - against, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 42nd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 326. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 42nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 388 - for, 6 - against, abstained from 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 43rd amendment to the article. 340 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 382 - for, 3 - against, with a hold of 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 44th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 360. Amendment 52 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 44th and 52nd, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 395 - for, no one was against, 18 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 45th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 362. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 273 - for, 1 - against, with 136 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 46th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2 The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 46th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 395 - for, no one was against, the 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 47th amendment to the article. 379 applicants propose, among others: In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 388 - for, 1 - against, 19 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 48th amendment, the applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 381. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 269, 2 against, 139 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 49th amendment to the article. 385 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 49th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 392 - in favour, no one voted against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 50th amendment to the article. 389 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 383 - for, no one was against, 18 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 51st amendment to Article. 391 applicants propose, inter alia, In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1a and 1b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 397 - for, 1 - against, halted 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 53rd amendment to the article. Paragraph 393. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 389 - for, against - 1, 17 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 55th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 431. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 55th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 164, against - 230, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 56th amendment to Article. 433 applicants propose, inter alia, the new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 56th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 160 - for, against - 235, 19 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 57th amendment to Article. Paragraph 454. 2 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 57th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 151 - for, against - 235, 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 58th amendment to Article. The applicants propose to reword paragraph 457. 1. Amendment 60 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render the 59th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 58th and 60th, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 162, against - 231, 17 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 59th amendment to Article. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 59th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 257 - for, 138 - against, suspended 18. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 61st amendment to Article. 469 applicants propose a different wording of point 20. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 61st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 157, against - 235, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 62nd amendment to Article. Paragraph 473. 1 applicants propose, inter alia, the new wording of the introduction to the calculation in point 1. Amendment 64 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 62 and 64, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 388, 4 against, the 19. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 63rd amendment to the article. Paragraph 474. 2 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 63rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 268, 130 - against, 17 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 65th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 527. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 65th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 270 - for, 1 - against, holding 130. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 66th amendment to the article. 576 applicants propose a new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 66th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 392, 1 against, 20 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 67th amendment, the applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 595. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 67th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 393 - in favour, no one voted against, 18 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 68th amendment to Article. 619 applicants propose, among others. amendments to paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 68th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 269 - for, against - 1, 148 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're coming... Excuse me, before we vote on the whole bill, there's a question. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! We are proceeding with a very important law on the basis of which thousands of entrepreneurs operate on a market worth billions of zloty. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole project is nearly 1,600 pages. The special subcommittee developed this project at a rate of 20 hours, i.e. almost 100 pages per hour, specifying - 300 pages of legislation. So it turns out that the Polish Sejm has transposed this law at a rate of 15 pages per hour. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If the law is to be established so that on one side A4 Polish Sejm spends 4 minutes, I will say: God help Polish entrepreneurs! Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 3 years.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u460	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a question, there's no answer. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of adopting the whole draft law in the form of print nr... [[But I volunteered for the whole thing.]] [[Voice from the room: The question was.]] I'm sorry, I didn't have a notification from the Member. [[I volunteered for the entire bill.]] There has been no notification from the Member, I apologise. I have here with the secretariat... [[Voice from the room: It was, it was.]] [[Voice from the room: It was reported, like...]] [[What do you mean, sit down?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Voting.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 3759, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. It was 256, 142 against, with 17. The Sejm passed the Public Procurement Law Act. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law Rules introducing the Public Procurement Law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3760-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for voting on the previous proposal. A large number of amendments reflect, in an exceptional way, the reference at the committee meeting to the social side's votes, showing that the work was done fairly. This draft law is an introductory provision, and I therefore recommend that you vote in accordance with the committee's proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u462	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3760. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 23a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Before the vote, Mrs Małgorzata Janyska wanted to speak. Madam President, at the same time, I would like to add that you have come forward, but to the question before voting on the whole of this bill, not the previous one. [[Voice from the room: She made a mistake.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u463	Your marshal, I've been miswritten, so this is unfortunately... [[Voice from the room: You have to be vigilant.]] [[Get in the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u464	Excuse me, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u465	This is unfortunately the mode of operation of the Sejm, which was imposed in this term of office, just like this. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Scandalous manipulation of the work of the Sejm, outrageous. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u466	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u467	It is a pity that Minister Emilewicz is not here because I wanted to ask Minister Emilewicz if he knows for sure where he is running for the Sejm? And I'm not asking about geographical coordinates here, I'm just asking, does he know he's running from Poznan and Wielkopolska? And there you value a decent job, a decent job everywhere. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And so it should be in the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u468	It wasn't a question, so there's no answer. [[Voice from the room: What was that?]] The Commission is asking for... [[Voice from the room: There it was.]] Who? [[Answer Mrs. Emilevich.]] [[Voice from the room: Mrs. Emilevich.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You will answer.]] I know you have specific jokes at this hour... [[Voice from the room: Sense of humor.]] ...but it really wasn't a question. We're on our way to work. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 154 was for, against - 235, 21 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4 The Act on Liability for Violation of Public Finance Discipline shall propose a different wording of paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. It was 387, 4 against, 18 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 82a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. 264 was in favor, against - 9, 131 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 85a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 381 was in favour, no one was against, 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 85b. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 385 was for, no one was against, 20 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 88 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3 to 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 385 Members voted. 240 was for, against - 3, 142 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Does Mrs Janyska want to ask a question? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This sitting, the last in this term of office, is the essence of the entire term of office, an example of scandalous manipulation of the work of the Sejm, submission to it absolutely the purposes of the ruling party. An example of this is also those two laws that are being processed at the moment. [[Question.]] The projects went through the Sejm within 20 hours. The government's been working on them for almost four years, and they drove through the Sejm in 20 hours. And, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing that entrepreneurs have been waiting for, the value of the increase in contract costs, of course, has not been provided to them. You know why, ladies and gentlemen? I think that because the approach of the state is the same as that of a prominent Member who says that if someone is unable to operate under such conditions, it means that he is simply not capable of doing so, and if someone is not able to act effectively, then he should simply do something else. [[Business specialist.]] And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the key to understanding these laws and this design. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the hall: In your time companies building highways, hundreds of companies in your time....]] We promise, entrepreneurs, that in the next term of office we will make a change and certainly the value of contracts will be worth the cost. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u470	Thank you, Member. Of course, there was no question, but that's normal. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3760, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 256 - for, 142 - against, 16 stopped. The Sejm passed the Law on Public Procurement Law. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 22 hours 22 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018 (print No 3527) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 3803). I would ask the chairman of the National Judicial Council of Leszek Mazur to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u471	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I would like to present information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018. The year 2018 was the first year of action... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u472	Mr. Chairman, maybe a moment... Ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry. Please move the calls to the cocksuckers. Let's respect each other. [[Voice from the courtroom: Yes, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u473	I will repeat that 2018 was the first year of operation of the National Judicial Council appointed according to the new procedure. Only that it is effectively 8 months: from May to December 2018, because for the first 4 months of the year the National Council of the Courts was still in its previous composition. This period of work can be summarised with several basic figures. The Council shall be a collegial body, acting at meetings. The meetings shall be held in accordance with the plan. There were 17 meetings in 2018. At these meetings, 1232 candidates were assessed as judge or asessor and asked the President of the Republic of Poland to appoint 322 judges or assessors. Currently, this number already exceeds 600 people, but in 2018 there were 322 candidates. Five meetings of the previous Council - 21 resolutions over a period of 3 months. On the other hand, the next meeting of the Council in its new composition brought 486 resolutions for 8 months. I'm talking about the so-called. resolutions on personal matters, which means 54 resolutions per month. This is more resolutions than the previous Council has taken over a period of 3 months. A total of 1232 candidates were evaluated. It is worth noting that most of them were judges, but there was a trend - pointing to opening up to other environments, as among the 1232 candidates we also dealt with 114 lawyers, 117 legal advisers, 52 people from different backgrounds: government officials, tax advisors and academics. [[You'll return all the payments with interest.]] Applications for appointment mainly concerned district courts, i.e. The candidates came primarily from regional courts. One can see here a correlation between some kind of unblocking of applications from these courts and the fact that there is a very low representation of regional judges in the previous term of office of the judicial council. For 30 years, there have been three regional judges in each composition of the National Judicial Council, which means that there were entire terms, during which no regional judge was a member of the National Judicial Council. Another point that I would like to draw attention to, because it has raised some interest in the public and led to misunderstandings, is the question presented on page 43 of this report on the so-called. Revocations. Well, candidates apply for competitions, but they can withdraw their application until the end of this competition. This withdrawal is purely technical and is committed to improving its position in other competitions to which these candidates may apply. On the other hand, at the beginning of the Council's action in 2018 - I am talking about the period since May 2018 - these purely technical withdrawals were presented as an expression of boycott of competitions conducted by the Council or boycott of the Council as such. Mr Dariusz Zawistowski of the Supreme Court, the President of the Civil Chamber of this court and the Chairman of the National Judicial Council for a time, also spoke on this subject. He was also in favour of such a position presented in the media, such interpretation, but the number of withdrawals is not entirely different from the number of withdrawals we had in the work of previous compositions of the National Judicial Council, which leads to the conclusion that there is no boycott here, but it is completely technical. For the record, on average, these withdrawals are 23 per month, and for one sitting there will be around 14. Since 486 resolutions on personal matters received 57 appeals, some were recognised by the Supreme Court. In this respect, 14 judgments were delivered, three appeals dismissed, two dismissed, six cases repealed and cases re-examined, which means that the stability of the decisions of the national council is around 60%. and should be assessed as an average. On the other hand, the Supreme Court also issued 15 provisions on the suspension of the proceedings concerning the appeals lodged or on the grounds of adjournment for the submission of questions, asking questions for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union. One of the powers of the National Judicial Council is the issue of switching or moving judges to rest. In this regard, 43 resolutions were passed in 2018, 43 judges retired, eight cases refused to be retiring, while it is worth noting that no Supreme Court judge and no Supreme Court judge were retiring. In this respect, one appeal was lodged and dismissed by the Supreme Court. It is also the responsibility of the National Courts Council to evaluate draft normative acts, if they are, in general, related to the functioning of the judiciary. Such projects were received 134, requests for an opinion were dealt with in 119 cases, 15 over the following year and have certainly already been dealt with. Of these 134, the majority concerned draft laws - 78, 50 concerned regulations, and the others concerned one Senate resolution, one order of the Senate marshal, one notice of the Sejm marshal and two regulations of the European Parliament. The most important in this respect were draft amendments to the Codes in the number 27, a detailed breakdown is presented in tab 64. The National Judicial Council also has the possibility to present general positions on various matters relating to the functioning of the judiciary. In this respect, the Council adopted its position in 17 cases, in three cases the Presidency. The Bureau's positions concerned issues of a technical nature. In 2018, in one case, the Council exercised the power laid down in Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the Constitution, namely that it submitted one application to the Constitutional Tribunal on the basis of a resolution of 22 November 2018. The judgment was delivered on 21 March 2019. The Council during these first few months of action, i.e. From January to April, i.e. in the previous composition, she was honored because in 2014 a medal was established for the justice system. The last ceremony related to these honours took place in February 2018 and the medal was abolished by a resolution of 3 March 2018. In 2018 there was one conference organized by the National Court Council, 7 December 2018, and it was a conference on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of independent justice in Poland. The lectures were given by three professors. The summary of this conference was the visit to Belvedere and the acceptance by the President. International cooperation of the Council takes place in various forms and within various multilateral organisations. Bilateral cooperation is also carried out. In particular, cooperation in the consultative board of judges should be noted. Here, above all, you were active judge Katarzyna Goner, later also judge Kurciusz-Furmanik, while in Zagreb there was a spokesperson of the national council judge Maciej Mitera. Within the framework of the ENCJ, three meetings were held. The first two were held in Lisbon in June, later in Warsaw. On the other hand, in Bucharest, cooperation was suspended on the basis of a resolution of the network of September 2018. But we're in touch. Certain signals in relations with the ENCJ suggest the possibility of renewing or establishing this cooperation. As part of bilateral cooperation, 14 so-called requests were received by the National Council. good practices led by different courts of European countries. On the other hand, the remaining developments in this area of international cooperation are set out in Charters 101 to 103 of information. Several thousand different types of letters, applications, complaints and petitions are coming to the National Council each year. This year more than 8,000 have been received. such writings. They were recognized by various kinds of permanent committees operating in the Council. 425 cases were identified by the complaint committee, 352 cases - disciplinary responsibility committee, 49 cases - visitation and vetting committee, 58 cases - professional ethics committee of judges. The National Council also recognized appeals or read appeals. It has the possibility to appeal against disciplinary judgments. Such disciplinary decisions have been received by 16 courts. We did not decide to appeal, but in 17 cases we did not have the opportunity to take a stand because the time limit for taking such a position had expired. I would also like to talk about the emerging information or allegations of excessive severity of disciplinary justice. This has so much to do with the functioning of the national council that disciplinary spokesmen are affiliated with the Council, i.e. Chief spokesperson and his deputy. I will give you a few figures because they were the subject of such an analysis due to the visit of the Council of Europe Monitoring Commission last week. Well, about 1,000. various disciplinary cases conducted throughout the country by the disciplinary judiciary have been brought into question or disciplinary proceedings in about 70 cases, 34 of which, if I recall correctly, have been brought to disciplinary courts. 18 of these proceedings are over. About 80% the cases of sanctions which have been imposed were reduced to reminders or reprimands, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean, the mildest disciplinary measures. No judge has been disbarred. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u474	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present the position of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018, print No 3527. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm bureau, sent the above information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 12 June for consultation. The Commission took note of yesterday, yesterday, I apologize, of the activities of the National Judicial Council and held a discussion at yesterday's meeting. The information was presented by the vice-president of the National Judicial Council, Judge Wiesław Johann. The vice-president of the KRS informed about the implications of the legislative changes to the KRS in 2018 and presented the most important data on the functioning of the Council during the year covered by the report. This Decision shall enter The NRA held 17 plenary meetings, which lasted a total of 59 days. The Council recognised 1302 applications to serve as judges in general courts, administrative courts, military courts and the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, as well as in the positions of court assistants in the provincial administrative courts. The KRS presented proposals to the President for the appointment of 322 persons to serve as an office for the above mentioned period. posts. The teams of members of the National Courts held 181 meetings to prepare individual cases in the nomination competitions. The members of the KRS teams held interviews with 301 candidates during the nomination procedure. In addition, the Council gave an opinion on 78 draft laws and 50 regulations on their jurisdiction, i.e. on matters relating to the judiciary, judges and judicial assessors. In accordance with its powers, the Council held positions on matters relating to the transfer of the judge to rest and on other matters relating to the judiciary, judges and judicial assessors. In 2018, the Council addressed one request to the Constitutional Tribunal to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the Act of 12 May 2011 on the National Court Register and Article. 388 § 1 of the Act of 17 November 1964, i.e. the Code of Administrative Procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u476	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding information about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018, print No 3527. The information provided by the National Judicial Council is reliable in terms of its scope. It shall contain in its content the following parts: system, tasks and competences, composition and structure, basic statistical information, examination and evaluation of applications, cases concerning the transfer of judges to retirement, opinions on normative acts and positions on matters relating to the judiciary, judges and assesors, income planning, applications to the Court, honouring and conferences, international cooperation, complaints and requests, and shall describe the Office of the National Judicial Board. As regards the normative changes that were carried out in 2018, the Sejm Act of 8 December 2017, which entered into force on 17 January 2018, first of all changed the choice of members of the National Judicial Council from among judges. The possibility of submitting candidates was granted to a group of at least 2 000. citizens or a group of at least 25 retired judges. Finally, the election was awarded to the Sejm, which elects 15 judges from among the candidates submitted for a joint four-year term by a qualified majority of 3/5 votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. The Act of 10 May 2018 amended the appointment procedure for the position of judicial assailant in the General Court, restored the model in which the President of the Republic of Poland, and not the Minister of Justice, appoints the court assessors in the General Courts. By Law of 20 July 2018, the Law on the System of General Courts amended the procedure for proceedings before the National Courts Council. Finally, the last amendment of 21 November 2018, where the National Council has obtained powers to present to the President of the Republic a declaration of the will of the Supreme Court and of the Supreme Administrative Court Judges, will remain at rest under Article. 2 (2) 1 presented act. The National Council is now composed of the first President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, the President of the NSA, the President of the President, 15 members elected from among the general courts, four members elected by the Sejm from among the Members and two members elected by the Senate. It must be said that it is good that the National Courts Council is currently composed of judges of regional courts. This practice has not been used before. It is also a good thing that more and more willing persons from outside the direct judicial profession apply for the judicial profession. They're lawyers, counselors... [[Voice from the O.R.: Attorneys.]] ...and the prosecutors, too. It didn't happen before. [[Prosecutors first.]] As regards the impact of the cases, 131 draft normative acts, including 78 draft laws, one draft resolution of the Senate, one draft order of the Marshal, have been received by the National Council of Courts. In total, 27 draft laws on amendments to the codes were adopted by the National Council of the Court of Justice. As regards the position in matters relating to the Constitutional Tribunal, one case was referred to the Court. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: In his own case.]] By its resolution of 22 November 2018, a request was made to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the Act on the National Judicial Council. Complaints that affect the national council. In the context of the complaint proceedings conducted by the National Judicial Council in 2018, the Committee on Complaints, Requests and petitions examined 425 cases, the Committee on Disciplinary Liability of Judges and Judicial Assistants considered 352 cases, the Visiting and Mirror Committee considered 49 cases and the Professional Ethics Committee of Judges and Judicial Assistants considered 58 cases. Given the report presented and the fact that there is a greater transparency at the moment as regards the activities of the National Judicial Council, its deliberations are being broadcast... In view of the report presented, the club welcomes the information submitted on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u478	Thank you, sir. The position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u479	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition on information from the activities of the National Judicial Council. First of all, I would like to remind you that the idea of setting up the KRS in 1989 was the answer to the tragic experiences of the communist judiciary. Dominated, like every sphere of life, by the mono-power of the Polish United Workers' Party. The period of the Polish People's Republic showed most clearly what ends with the politicisation of the justice system and what regulations determine when issuing judgments. The KRS was set up over the divisions, because everyone, including the leaders of today's PiS, supported ensuring the total and above all real independence of judges from politics. As it turned out, only until now. As you read the report on the activities of the KRS in 2018, you can get the impression that it was another normal year of the Board's operation, except that it was not a normal year, it was a revolutionary year during which it led to the largest in the history of this institution of crisis, and it was the solutions that PiS pushed through that led to this. It turns out that we are dealing with the destruction of an institution that has been upholding the independence, independence of the judiciary. Question: "Is this an accident at work or has this purpose been guiding you from the very beginning?" First of all, before this political volt took place, the terms of office of all judges were unlawfully deleted. It was a huge legal and political scandal. A different state body, which is the Constitutional Tribunal or what is left of it, has been used here. This is how a pathological and unlawful justice system is created. Secondly, the choice of the members of the National Judicial Council was clearly made contrary to the Constitution, but also contrary to the requirements of the Act. Because it was the constitution that introduced this order to represent different backgrounds, so that there would not be a monopoly on a single political environment in the Council. And what situation are we dealing with now? On the 25 members of the National Judicial Council, the PiS indicates 80% of the composition of the board, including all 15 judges. And this is a pathological system. I purposely use the term "shows," because speaking about choice is simply a joke in this case. After all, signatures of support for candidates have been kept secret, and we do not know whether any formal criteria have been met at all. [[Applause]] These doubts are so justified that the signatures of the support gathered under the candidacy of Judge Maciej Nawatki - from what we all know - have been withdrawn and yet Marshal Kuchciński has allowed this candidacy to be chosen in the Parliamentary Chamber. [[The entire squad is out of order.]] The matter of these signatures was referred to the administrative court. And thanks to the efforts of Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz present in the Chamber, the final decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which ordered the Chancellery of the Sejm to disclose all signatures of support under the nominations of the current members of the National Judicial Council. But the law firm of the Sejm leads to obstruction, clearly does not execute the final ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court. After all, we had a similar situation in the case of a ruling of the Constitutional Court. It's not even a simple obstruction, it's just a crime, it's a failure to comply with the duty of a government official, which is an obligation to execute a final judgment. [[Applause]] It would appear from the statements of the President of the Council that there is no case before the Court of Justice of the European Union. But she is. After all, there will be a question of whether the selection of 15 members, the judges of the National Judicial Council, has been properly carried out. If it turns out that this will be called into question, then all the judges' nominations, all the judges' promotions, all the statistics that you spoke of and, consequently, also the judgments given by those judges will be questioned. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And then what?]] This will lead to a massive legal chaos. And then what? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Shame.]] Are we gonna pretend it's okay? This may not interest you because you do not settle your cases in court, but it is of interest to millions of Poles. And such passiveness is simply outrageous. And at the end - although this does not cover directly 2018 - I will talk about a case that has just been revealed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is about a heiter affair involving the management of the Justice Department, in which, as we know, the employees of the National Judicial Council were also involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u480	Your time is up, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u481	This consists of a sad and sadly pathetic picture of the institution, which in 1989 was the common good of all pro-democratic forces. And this nightly debate is the sad picture of the best proof. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Bravo!]] [[You have to pay everyone back with interest for this whole time...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u482	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will be heard by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u483	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland concerning the activities of the National Court Council in 2018. At the outset, the powers of the National Courts Board should be indicated. Namely, it is a constitutional body upholding the independence of the courts and independence of judges, and this is such a obvious obvious thing to pay attention to. A number of its competences include: First, examining and evaluating candidates to serve as judges of the Supreme Court, in common courts, administrative courts and military courts, second, submitting applications to the President of the Republic of Poland for the appointment of judges in the Supreme Court, in general courts, administrative courts and military courts. It is the National Judicial Council that is responsible for the most important factor in the justice system, which is the judge. This is very important because those sitting on the National Council of Courts have exactly the same competence, and it is not yet known who is applying for judges of the National Council of Courts. The famous secret letters of support may suggest that a group of judges focused on the Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziebra and, as it has been commonly referred to, Vice-Ziobra in the form of Judge Piebiak recommended a group of judges who may be connected in various informal configurations. Not much of it, on the letter of support of the judges to the National Court of Justice, was handed down by the Supreme Administrative Court, which was boycotted. It's unconventional, yet it's real. Interestingly, Mr Maciej Nawatski, a member of the National Judicial Council, confirmed that he was the author of a complaint for the disclosure of a letter of support to the National Court Register. As a result, the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, former Councillor of the PiS, attempted to stop this information being made available to the public. Not much, the judge also admitted that he signed his own candidacy for the National Court Register. You can be very sure that in the National Courts of Justice such a way of submitting candidates was common. It was still possible to decide that there would be judges themselves and vote for themselves. It's ironic, of course, but giving away the problem or the essence of the problem. Such actions undermine the KRS' competence to act in any way. It is difficult to talk about action, as there are many examples that people who compete in jury competitions, even if they can boast of the impeccable course of service, excellent evaluation of their work and additional education, cannot be sure that they will be considered worthy of promotion. The question arises: Why? The answer is, it seems, simple: The decisions of the current Council depend on subjective assessments of its individual members, not analysis of candidates according to objective criteria. Unfortunately, we are back to square one - people who submit their own candidacy and opinion on judges. And the statistics are alarming, because it turns out that there are no judges, there are no asses, there are no referenda. I will use the data provided by Mr Łukasz Piebiak's Vice Minister of Justice at the end of 2018. In all courts in Poland there were 745 vacancies, out of which 452, and thus more than half, fell on the district courts. The second place on the podium in this clumsy ranking is taken by appeals courts, in which 115 judges were missing at the end of the previous year. Or maybe this is influenced by the material used by one of the messengers during the meeting of the National Court of Justice, which was received from a certain Emi. I may be wrong, but I think a nickname like that has a wife or ex-wife of a judge associated with the ministry of justice. But note, the KRS creates appearances that it works according to all possible standards. It can be quoted that the KRS urgently requested explanations from three members of the board who, in the group on WhatsAppa, were to plan actions against the insubordinate judges. You can see outstanding heroism in the action of the KRS, three judges from the group holding in the KRS thanks to the appointment in the Ministry of Justice, and now it calls for urgent explanations. The secret process of submitting candidates to the KRS is a sad picture of this institution. KRS activities after the PiS bombing of the institution and its staff [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, the nominates are offended by professional standards. And this is the sad conclusion of this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u484	Thank you, sir. Mrs Barbara Chrobak will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. There isn't. I therefore kindly inform you that Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u485	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the KRS representative, the judge. Yesterday, Judge Johann informed of his sentence on the implementation of the judgment of the NSA of 28 June 2019 concerning the transmission of a letter of support to the public of the members of the body which I call the neo-KRS. What's your opinion on this? The second point concerns the composition of the neo-KRS. This is what Mr Myrch was talking about in detail. But I have one impression. First of all, all 15 entered the alliance with power. I don't know who's been talking to you and your other friends. Was that Deputy Minister Piebiak? That's a question for you, too. But I'm also aware that you've come into some kind of adventure, into a very fast promotion, but knowing that this is an adventure for a short time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this KRS, and those judges who are there, will unfortunately not be remembered on the positive side. You don't represent...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u486	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u487	You're not independent judges. And that's the problem. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You write down the black court cards.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u488	Thank you, sir. The question will be asked by Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u489	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Judicial Council is set up to defend the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. I wanted to ask you what the National Judicial Council has done about the numerous harassments that are applied to judges who criticize the so-called. reform of the judiciary, which asks questions for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union, who, even for such a thing as simulating a court hearing at a rock festival, are also being prosecuted by disciplinary agents. The records in this case concern Judge Tulei, Judge Żurek, Judge Dorota Zabłudowska, Judge Głowacka, Judge Alina Czubeniak, Judge Arkadiusz Krupa and Judge Monika Frąckowiak - and many other judges - are under pressure because what they do does not simply like power. Or maybe you don't like the sentence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or the justification for the sentence... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Shirt.]] ...or criticism of judicial reform. What did the National Judicial Council do to protect the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judges in defence of them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u490	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Judge! I wanted to ask you two simple things. The first is indeed the choice of members of the National Judicial Council, and especially in the context of Judge Nawatski. What will happen, in your opinion, if it turns out that this judge is wrongly elected, and thus the entire election resolution may be invalid? Do you realize that the entire composition of the KRS can be challenged? As a judge, you know that you always determine the correctness of the chosen body, the formation of the organ. If it turns out that the organ is not properly filled, it means that the whole thing can actually fall apart. The second thing is very important. I wanted to ask you about the disciplinary proceedings. Should the National Judicial Council elect a Ombudsman in the context of the Article. Six? Because it's her responsibility. And another thing. Judge Johann on behalf of the KRS at the committee meeting said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the lists of judges should be disclosed. Do you think they should be disclosed or not? Please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u492	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u493	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me put it this way: I feel sorry for you in human terms because being president of such an organ is really nothing nobilitating. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: He volunteered himself.]] You will not register in the history of the Polish judiciary as a positive figure. I have questions: If the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union makes it clear that the National Judicial Council has been set up unlawfully, will you have the honour to resign? Are you going to stick to those stools that you've achieved politically? Will you identify your own letters of support for your candidacy? That would put an end to this dispute and you would not create a situation where the Sejm must break the law, the marshal must break the law, the head of the firm must break the law. [[The president wants to.]] Will you explain to the end all issues related to the participation of representatives who are in the National Court Register, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a hater's affair? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u494	Thank you very much. A normal parliamentary language, please. The Seym doesn't break the law. [[What do you mean, no?]] [[The marshal breaks.]] [[PiS-owska most of them break the law, Marshal.]] Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am surprised that the President did not mention the fact that the functioning of the advice he is holding is a huge risk of legal chaos for all Polish citizens. After all, you are well aware that the functioning of unconstitutional advice is actually a gift for all criminals in Poland who are now drinking the health of Mr.Ziobra, Mr.Andrzej Duda, Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński, maybe your health, because for them, the drawing of the judge who was elected by the unconstitutionally appointed KRS is a ticket drawing: you are released from prison. You know that very well. You are probably familiar with the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights on the Icelandic case, which is clear: the appointment of a judge with a legal defect by an authority which has been appointed with a legal defect is a step towards undermining any judgment given by that judge. You're taking the release of thousands. [[♪ The bell ♪]] criminals in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u496	Thank you, Member. It's just that sometimes prisoners don't vote for these parties at all. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be addressed by the President of the National Judicial Council, Mr Leszek Mazur. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. [[There is no National Judicial Council in Poland.]] Please, sir, really. [[Really.]] [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: There will be a ruling from the Court of Justice and you will have to face it.]] Parliamentaryism is an obligation, ladies and gentlemen. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u497	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer according to the order of questions asked. First of all, I will address the questions raised by Mr Szczerba. There were a few questions. The first, it seems, concerned a letter of support for applications to the National Judicial Council in the context of what Mr Johann said on the committee yesterday and said. Well, I agree with him, and I have spoken publicly on several occasions about the letter. I spoke twice in the Senate. I do not recall speaking in the Seym last year, but it seems that such a question did not arise during the discussion. I believe that the whole of our public life is infiltrated by the principle of transparency, so this issue seems obvious. I also expressed myself in such a way that, since certain doubts arose in connection with the wording of the provisions of the Act on the National Judicial Council and they gave the Marshal the basis for not revealing these letters and then the legal proceedings in the administrative court relating to access to public information began, the last word here had to be said by the Supreme Administrative Court. I was convinced that this court's ruling would end the case. However, since additional proceedings have been initiated showing some additional doubts and a certain dimension of personal data protection issues and also constitutional doubts, I am in the position without changing the view that these lists should be made public, but first of all they should be brought to the end of the proceedings which have been initiated by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection as well as the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. The second question raised by your Member was whether I had spoken to Minister Piebiak. I reply: I did not have the need to speak to Minister Piebiak because he is a member of the National Judicial Council of the Minister of Justice, Minister Ziobro. If he appeared at meetings and was present at several meetings, we talked to each other, just as the members of the council are talking to each other. [[Before your appointment, before your choice.]] I'm definitely denying it. I didn't talk before my appointment. Besides, if you wait patiently and the letters of support are made public... My support list doesn't contain any names of persons in any way related to the Ministry of Justice... [[Then what are we waiting for?]] ...in particular, the judges seconded to the Ministry of Justice. [[Isn't a court order enough?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u498	Member, please. [[But we're talking about the truth. The spokesperson...]] But why don't you listen to the President's answer in peace?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u499	Ladies and gentlemen! I answer the questions of those who have asked them after applying for questions. I believe that Mr Kropiwnicki was the second person to ask questions. I answer his questions. Mr Kropiwnicki expressed his doubts on how the effectiveness of the Council's resolutions can be affected by the fact that one of the judges, namely Judge Nawatski, one of the members of the Council, supported himself and there are doubts about the effectiveness of this notification. [[And who supported Navatsky?]] I would like to point out that the council consists of 25 members, is a collegial body. The quorum required shall be 13 persons. [[They're chosen... in a vote.]] Therefore, the fact that an effective challenge of the application is possible and, consequently, the status of one of the members of the Board does not automatically result in the failure of resolutions. It all depends on... [[Yes, it does. Why are you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u500	Excuse me. Madame, there was a time to ask questions. You could have volunteered, signed up, asked a question. [[But I'm sorry, we're being misled.]] Please don't disturb me. At the moment, you are responding to the President. [[But how does he respond?]] Stop it, sir. [[But how does he respond? No due diligence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u501	Everything depends on the effectiveness of the resolutions adopted on a particular matter. Not every session was attended by Judge Nawatsky. Therefore, the specific answer to this question will depend on the examination of how many meetings were attended by Judge Nawatski... [[Okay, so all the sessions that your judge took part in...]] ...and what majority the resolution was adopted. If it was more than 14 or 15 votes... [[A combination.]] ...the absence of one vote is not able to undermine the effectiveness of such a resolution. [[Yes, but you have a strong term.]] [[This is a collegial body, collegially chosen...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u502	Madame, once again, I am warning you, I really am. [[You're misleading the High House right now. This is absolutely unacceptable.]] [[You have a choice. One doesn't matter, the rest doesn't matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u503	Mr Święcicki had doubts about the use of repression against judges. I would like to remind you that during my first speech, when I presented information from the activities of the national council, I added whether I stressed one aspect of the work of the council, this disciplinary one, and I quoted concrete data. That is, there are around 1 000 conducted. proceedings of various kinds, of a disciplinary or explanatory nature. Of these, only 60 or 70 proceedings were initiated by disciplinary officials. For example, 34 cases were referred to disciplinary courts, of which 18. 80% The decisions given in these cases resulted in reprimand or reprimand, the most lenient disciplinary measures. None of the judges were disfellowshipped. On the other hand, the issue of the so-called. The repression against the judges mentioned by you concerns persons, judges who are very actively involved in challenging the reforms that are being implemented in the judicial area. Indeed, a number of forms in which they participate in this public discussion raises doubts as to whether or not there are limits to political commitment that judges should avoid. The staging or simulation of a hearing at a rock concert or a party of this kind, quoted by your Member... If you take a closer look at it, it's the behavior of the participants, the whole nature of the party, the outfits they put on... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What about hating? Is hating better?]] [[What a guy.]] ...unfortunately, they did not build in any way the authority of the judiciary, on the contrary, has embarrassed its functioning. [[I absolutely disagree.]] [[What a guy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u504	Ladies and gentlemen, I really call for the preservation of culture, such a fundamental one. [[...this is the Seym, this is a serious place.]] You're a parliamentarians, aren't you? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The presidents of Poland and other countries participated.]] You know, you guys are really testifying to your behavior. Mr. Chairman... [[Did you listen to Mrs Pavlowicz yesterday? Exactly.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u505	I answer the questions asked by Mr Meysztowicz regarding the disclosure of the letter. [[That's where Piebiak signed your name...]] This question was formulated in this way: Will we, as members of the National Council, make these letters public? I answer: this is not possible, because the Sejm or Marshal of the Sejm are the directors of these letters, and that is why we do not feel authorized to make these letters public. [[Then tell me the Sejm Office is breaking the law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u506	Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room violates the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Thank you. [[Unlike your marshal, who's on the lookout for seriousness.]] I ask you to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u507	So let me repeat, we don't feel entitled to release these letters. Besides, most members of the council do not have them at all, because if someone has not made a copy of the list and passed it on to the Marshal of the Sejm, then there is only the possibility of reproducing the contents of such a list from memory. [[Oh...]] I'm referring to the question of the hater scandal. It's the so-called one. The hater scandal touched or implied participation... In this so-called. At least two or three judges, members of the council, and one employee are implicated in the media. He was seconded to the National Council and served as Head of the Legal Department. After he was rescinded to the National Council, he was dismissed as Head of the Legal Department. On the other hand, with regard to two or three judges, members of the Council, after the first media reports, we asked the Bureau at an extraordinary meeting to provide explanations by these members. These explanations were made by one of them in writing and were made public, while by the other they were made orally at the meeting, excluding disclosure due to the possibility of disclosure of the so-called. sensitive data. Since then, it has been about two weeks and I would like to point out that, despite the implication that two or three judges, members of the national council, have taken part in this event in the media, no concrete statement has been made by these members, which could be regarded as a so-called statement. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. The participation in some discussion forum itself is not yet a part of the hater's affair... [[Well, that's nice.]] ...because there isn't, and I'm gonna do it again with all the pressure... [[Your marshal, you will summon...]] [[The voice from the hall: To not joke, no.]] [[Vote from the courtroom: Dear Marshal...]] ...after two weeks, there is no representation of these judges of such character. [[Integrity of the judge.]] The only statement of Judge Nawatski in this thread concerning Professor Gersdorf is: nemo iudex in causa sua, which even after translating into Polish does not give any reason to say that it is a heiter statement. The translation is: no one is a judge in his case. If you see any heifer in this, then... [[Even Ziobro saw it.]] I do not know if the Minister of Justice has analysed it so thoroughly, and I do not know how you have such information. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Even Piebiak's Ziobro saw it.]] I am referring to the specific statement of Judge Nawatski, who was presented in the media. I do not know any other statements from members of the National Council of this nature. [[The voice from the hall: There was another third question: Will you resign?]] Yes, indeed, I also answer that question. It was formulated: Will we stick to the claws of our positions? I declare, we may have nails, not claws, but I understand the figurative meaning of this statement and answer as follows: we were appointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[It's against the constitution.]] [[To be involved in an assassination attempt on your own constitution...]] The ruling of the Court of Justice, whatever it may be, even if it is negative for us, may lead us to resign if the position of the Court of Justice is translated into a statement by the legislator, which will mean that it will not be possible to continue our work. [[Voice from the room: Pure decency.]] But I don't see any way to react in a way... [[But honor, Mr. Chairman, honor.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Letter of law.]] We have a legal order. But honor, of course, has an important meaning... [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u509	...but you can have a very different, different assessment of honor... [[No kidding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u510	Mr President, please don't argue with the jury. [[Voice from the Chamber: Yes, but Mr President says that the ruling of the KRS is ignored, then how can we not react?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u511	...is not a category that is able to change the legal order. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u512	Excuse me, just a minute. Mr President, can you respond to the Marshal's orders? I ask you to remain calm and not argue with the jury. [[Voice from the room: How do we not react?]] Please, sir. You're gonna discuss... [[Voice from the Chamber: How can one remain calm, as the chairman of the KRS speaks about the ruling...]] No, you should know the rules of discussion in the Sejm. You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen... [[So when are we supposed to react?]] [[Not now, you'll have your time.]] Mr President, because I will exercise my statutory powers, really. [[Voice from the hall: Discipline is in your club please keep it.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet, don't bother.]] Please don't ask me to do this, okay? I mean, really... [[Voice in the room: Microphone off.]] No, you're yelling at me right now, please let me finish. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] Whether the time is up or not, the Marshal decides, allow it. [[No, it's the rules, Marshal.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're welcome. [[Voice from the hall: This man is a symbol of constitutional violation.]] [[Voice from the hall: You're talking nonsense.]] Finish it. Don't pay any attention, then, because I can see that you can say...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u513	I've said it twice, but I'll say it again: anyone can quit. I also spoke publicly on this subject. [[Voice from the hall: Whoever has the honour will resign.]] [[If you had the honor, you wouldn't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u514	Here in the courtroom, don't insult the person who's on the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u515	Of course... I will answer in this way that even Members may resign, anyone may resign. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u516	Do you have the honour, sir? [[We're talking about your behavior.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u517	I said, however, that the category of honor is not taken into account by us if there is no proper change of order. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Thank you.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Get out of the podium now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u518	Thank you very much. You guys really did show off. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You have not published a letter of support against the judgment of the court.]] Madam, would you like to discuss this with me? If you'd like to come to my office, I'll always take your time, but in the Seym... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, the list is published.]] If you're a marshal, you'll see how great it is to have a meeting when 40 and 50 people talk at the same time and interrupt one person who's on the stand. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Your Marshal, you have a duty to publish letters of support in accordance with your final judgment. Don't run away from the subject.]] Do not argue with me, Madame, please. The discussion is closed. According to Art. 4th Act on the National Judicial Council on information shall not be put to a vote. I state that the Sejm took note of information about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018. [[There's no KRS, Marshal. Non est.]] Thank you, sir. [[Applause]] [[President of Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: Thank you very much.]] We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Information on the Ombudsman's activities and on the status of respect for human and civil rights in 2018 (print No 3550) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 3804). Mr. Adam Bodnar, may I present your information? You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u519	Dear Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, Honourable Guests! I would like to present once again a report on the activities of the Ombudsman and information on the state of compliance with human rights and freedoms in the Republic of Poland. I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues and colleagues for another year of hard work and hard work. The deadline for submitting the annual Ombudsman's information was this year at the summit of the election campaign. So let me start by asking you. As a spokesman, I would not like to participate in the election campaign or in the pre-election game. For me, the only thing that matters is how human rights and civil rights and freedoms are protected and implemented. What I will say, of course, refers to the current power, because that is the role of the Ombudsman, but it would always refer to any other one that will be elected. Therefore, please do not treat me as a competitor or an ally in the election. Please also do not use the annual information I submit for instrumental purposes, because I am a government official who performs his constitutional tasks within the scope of his 5-year term of office, and I do so in the interests of all citizens, including all voters. I never ask people who report their problems, their views, I'm interested in the problems they come with, and solving these problems is the essence of the Ombudsman's work. Problems, I stress, not mine, not imaginary, not abstract, but from human complaints and feelings of harm. So I ask that you treat them in a truly responsible, worthy way. And I say this because of the situation that took place at yesterday's session of the Parliament's Committee on Justice and Human Rights. I would like to stress that some of the legislative changes that have been adopted recently were the result of the Advocate General's speeches. These were among others. Act of 30 August this year. on the amendment of the Act on recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State, the Act of 19 July this year. the special rights of persons affected in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006 or the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs, which provides for additional obligations on architectural, digital and communication accessibility. I am pleased that in this way some of the Ombudsman's demands have been met. I would also like to stress that, as part of my work, I am trying to work with all the other spokespersons, as well as with the Supreme Chamber of Control, and to add that the spokesperson for the rights of the child Marek Michalak was honoured by me with a badge of honour for his merit in protecting human rights for his outstanding 10-year service to the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Dear Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, The Ombudsman's report is of particular importance from the point of view of Article. 202 constitutions, because this is not only information about the Ombudsman's activities, but above all information about the state of compliance with civil rights and freedoms. This information obligation is of particular importance because it is a form of transmission of observations and opinions by the Ombudsman on whether human rights are respected in Poland, but it is also a form of transmission of this information to the public. It is worth adding that, of course, citizens have, in accordance with the Constitution, the right to lodge complaints with the Ombudsman, which they actively benefit from. The number of complaints remains broadly the same as in previous years. The same is true for other contacts, visitors, and phone contacts. Of course, it is impossible to present the entire report of the Ombudsman, as the report has several hundred pages. We really are trying to write quite cost-effectively about what we are doing and at the same time give away the essence of the most important problems. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the presentation of 15 issues, 15 specific issues which require a solution in Poland. These are the topics that I constantly insist on and which, unfortunately, do not always meet with the right response. The first problem concerns the situation of persons with disabilities and their carers. We still have a lot to do with the reform of the disability case law system. It is absolutely necessary to reform legal institutions that support people with disabilities in decision-making and, in this context, to abolish incapacity. This is what the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities requires of us. The Polish government was also called upon to do this by the relevant UN committee. But I still - and I regret this - the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the guardians of persons with disabilities is not enforced. This sentence was passed over five years ago. More than 5 years ago, the Constitutional Tribunal concluded that the situation of carers cannot be differentiated according to the time when the children's disability arose and a large proportion of carers were left without the right to a higher benefit. We also have problems in deinstitutionalising the care of people with disabilities. The point is that these people can stay as long as possible in places that are best suited to their needs, not in big piers, big hospitals and social services. There are also a number of complaints from parents of students with disabilities who often describe dramatic conditions for teaching their children. And these complaints seem to confirm that the idea of inclusive education is not implemented in practice, and students with disabilities are pushed to the margin of the education system. The second problem I would like to mention is the situation at the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial Behaviour in Gostynin. There are now 72 people there, with 60 places planned. The number of patients is constantly increasing. On the other hand, what is lacking is simply the world's usual proper regulation of the rights of those who reside there. The court's approach to these cases also raises a number of concerns, particularly the use of a safeguard procedure, in principle a civil procedure to deprive people of freedom. And I ask the question: Do we really have to wait for the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg to judge these matters so that we can begin to take this seriously at all? This law, on the basis of which the centre in Gostynin was founded, has many legal gaps. It should be completely revised, and the philosophy of the centre itself should be changed. I would also like to address the problem of violence in police stations. We all know the Igor Stachowiak case, but there are other cases that are identified by my office. I care about systemic changes, in particular to guarantee real access to legal assistance as soon as it is stopped. There is also no precise definition of torture in the Penal Code, which results in torture being often treated merely as a breach of powers. I would like to point out that right now in Poland is visiting the ad hoc Committee on the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe. This is the first visit of the committee, which is organised on an ad hoc basis. As a general rule, this committee only planned to appear in Poland in 2021, but it came to the conclusion that the situation of violence by police officers is so worrying that it requires an additional extra programme visit. The problem in Poland is also the lack of effective fight against hate crimes, regulated by Article. 256 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 257 Penal Code. I'd expect a lot more involvement of the D.A.'s office in this kind of thing. I am concerned about the results of the research that we have carried out with the OSCE, which shows that only 5% of such crimes are reported to law enforcement authorities. Why? Since the victims do not have confidence in the institutions, they do not believe that something will happen to these matters, that the authorities of the state will act accordingly. A lot of complaints that go to the Ombudsman's office are about environmental protection. The issue of measles is still not regulated. There's a smog problem. The new phenomenon is landfills of trash, their arson, lack of support for municipalities in the disposal of trash. We look forward to many different solutions. The government promised to pass a law on livestock investments, but it did not even go to the Sejm. Another problem is the exercise of parental rights. I try to work with my father's environment, listen to the voice of mother's associations, I realize how much these environments are antagonized at present, and the basis for these antagonisms is the conflict in which the child remains most often. Family law does not keep pace with the current problems faced by families in the bipolar conflict, which prevents the state from reacting effectively and supporting them. Good law and the efficiency of judicial proceedings should be the dominant criteria that we should follow in order to resolve these problems. I regret that the law implementing the so-called law has not been passed. Alimony immediately. We were investigating her project in this room, and I supported this project because I thought he had a chance to put an end to one of the conflicts between his parents. Unfortunately, it wasn't passed. Another thing is the unsolved problem of the owners of housing books. This is the problem that I once again hoped would be resolved by the implementation of the "Housing+" programme, such were the announcements from the Ministry of Infrastructure. We still have a whole group of housebook holders who can't benefit from the guarantee premiums they have. Another problem is access to social housing as well as the quality of social housing. In Poland there is also a lack of a systematic approach to the problems of people in the homeless crisis. We need better coordination of state action, greater determination, and mental change in the perception of homeless people. My experience with numerous regional trips also shows that there is a problem of transport exclusion. It is not just a lack of public transport, but a related problem with the right to education, health, access to culture, the exercise of senior rights. Again: Should we read further reports, further books by Charles Trammer, Olga Gitkiewicz, reports by the Jagiellonian Club before you react? The State should develop a strategy to address this problem. Of course, health problems are a major issue. The situation in hospital emergency services, doctor queues, lack of doctors and nurses of certain specialties, underfunding of health services, lack of access to medicines, including those imported by means of final import, the situation in geriatrics and child psychiatry - these are all very serious problems. I would like to draw attention to one thing. In 2018, 98 thousand called the youth trust phone. children and adolescents. Moreover, this phone functions largely because at some point in its operation Jakub Błaszczykowski has allocated his own money to all of us. And now: we know that there are problems that young people contact and yet we do not see the great crisis in child psychiatry. We talk so much about family support, and we forget about real interest in matters and problems of children in families. Of course, when we talk about children, the Ombudsman deals with issues related to education reform. We warned about the consequences of the accumulation of the yearbooks, the problems of recruiting for secondary schools, and that this could lead to a deterioration in the quality of teaching. However, complaints to the office also indicate that there is a need for systematic anti-discrimination education. I am convinced that school can be a place where young people will be taught respect for others without violating the right of parents to raise them according to their own beliefs. As regards social rights, from the Ombudsman's point of view, a great deal of complaints concern the situation of citizens following the adoption of the Act of 16 December 2016, so-called. a repressive law that applied collective responsibility mechanisms. This is no longer just a matter of this law and what it has introduced, but also a question of real access to the court and the fact that because of the underfinancing of institutions, which are to deal with, for example, the transfer of complaints to courts, there is a considerable length of time in the proceedings. Many people in the country also deal with consumer rights, especially those who have taken loans denominated in foreign currencies. Here, unfortunately, we can only count on the courts that give us a chance to settle these cases. The Court of Justice of the European Union also comes to the aid. For example, today a valid judgment on repayment of credit costs in the case of early repayment - the Lexitor case. We are waiting for an even more important judgment of the Court on the Dziubak State, which will be important for many borrowers. Finally, surveillance is also a problem from the point of view of rights. That is not true, it is not acceptable to say that it is unacceptable for politicians to say that honest citizens have nothing to fear because public authorities cannot collect, collect and share information about citizens other than is necessary in a democratic state. It is a fundamental right to privacy, but it is also a matter of freedom of communication, journalistic secrecy or attorney-client privilege. I regret that the opinion of the Venice Commission has not been taken into account in any way, which indicates that our law, the Law on Police and Telecommunications Law contains many shortcomings in the provision and use by the authorities of telecommunications data, billing and IT data, and that no action is being taken to create an independent system of supervision of the activities of special services in accordance with recommendations. Of course, the latest event on this subject is the Pegasus system. In this case, I addressed a special speech to the Prime Minister. Finally, I would like to stress that it is bothering me that in Poland whole groups of people are excluded and humiliated: homosexuals, transgenderers, migrants, refugees, women, especially activists, non-governmental activists who deal with these rights. We see a process of space shrinking for civil society activities. We see that those involved in demonstrations, those who wish to protest, to speak in the public debate, are exposed to various forms of harassment or unequal treatment by public authorities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's 15 specific problems. Marshal, can I have another five minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u520	Five minutes is a little much. I'll give you two minutes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You must be joking.]] [[Two and a half minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u521	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u522	You're just showing me how to date you guys. That's what I see. As I ask you to calm down, I asked... [[Voice from the Chamber: But the Ombudsman?]] ...to allow the previous speaker to speak, you have reacted completely differently. And now you're asking me to extend five minutes, and that's okay, right? Oh, no, the deal has to be... [[Okay, but you've taken a minute.]] [[You're the one who breaks...]] You're welcome. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u523	Dear Marshal! Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! Five institutional issues. One: the independence of the judiciary is at stake. I am pleased that thanks to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of the Commission v Poland, the independence of the Supreme Court has been saved. [[Applause]] How important this judgment is and how important the Court of Justice of the European Union is, again shows the case from yesterday, when the same Court of Justice in the judgment in the case of OPAL stated that Poland is right about the gas pipeline dispute. The second thing is that the independence of prosecutors conducting investigations is at stake. The report of the Venice Commission has been ignored again. These are a number of ways in which prosecutors are disciplined and subject to strict professional authority and threaten to perform their functions. Freedom of access to information and freedom to obtain information are also at risk, in particular due to the failure of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment of 13 December 2016, which referred to the manner in which public media authorities were filled. For the first time, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe will oversee this year's parliamentary elections in Poland and examine the impact of the media on the electoral process, whether candidates are treated equally and impartially. I think it's worth remembering. There is a great deal to be done about improving the functioning of the courts. Many of the requests I have put forward have not been met, such as: a request for adoption of the Law on Judicial Experts. Finally, the situation at the Constitutional Court is also a threat. The level of confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal has decreased. Today's next event, which concerns it. The Court of Justice in Strasbourg referred to the first case in which the question of whether certain persons ruling at the Constitutional Court have the status of judges will be considered. This is Xero Flor's case against Poland. We can only imagine the consequences of a possible judgment by the Court in this case. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems that could be discussed, but at the end of the day, I would like to draw attention to the issue of not doing the recommendations of various international bodies. One of the Ombudsman's statutory tasks is to cooperate with bodies that deal with the protection of human rights at global or European level. They operate on the basis of international agreements which Poland has ratified. The Ombudsman has not only the right to cooperate with them, but also the duty to cooperate with them. Their recommendations should not be viewed as hostile to the State, but as good advice, a desire to cooperate positively and improve the situation of the citizen, such as the external look of a friend, an expression of concern and concern. If Poland wants to be treated as a reliable partner in the international arena, it should work loyally with such institutions. Many years of ignoring the recommendations do not give us the best certificate in the international arena, it distances us from a group of countries which are considered to attach due importance to the protection of the rights and freedoms of the individual. I'm sorry this is happening. As a state official who has sworn to uphold the rights and freedoms set out in the Constitution and international agreements, I will, until the very end, insist on respecting them. They will also take seriously all those who care about the same, who treat Poland internationally as partners for discussion in a spirit of mutual understanding of values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u524	Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present the position of the committee. I hope that you - Mr Spokesperson, have received more than 4 minutes - would like to listen in peace with the Member. [[What kind of teaching is that? This is the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u525	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In presenting the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Ombudsman's activities and on the status of respect for human rights and human rights in 2018, I would like to point out that it has entered the Sejm on 18 June 2019. On 26 June, Mr Marshal sent it to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights to be heard, by law, without expressing an opinion. Yesterday, 10 September, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of this information and held a discussion. Mr Spokesman, in writing, presented it yesterday at the committee's meeting in an unlimited manner, suggested that it was neither a place nor a time to discuss it in detail. [[What a lie.]] Any member of the committee could have taken the floor in an unfettered manner. The discussion dominated the recognition of the Ombudsman's work. [[And the questions were.]] It was the votes of the state, so I don't know what you're laughing at. Indeed, there was also one critical voice on the part of the representative of the Sejm majority. At this point, the uproar and controversy between the Members led you to recognise that, in fact, there was no question about the report, because indeed, even in your speech, there were references to this year and not to the year to which the report was concerned. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Lying.]] [[Voice from the room: How can you say that?]] The president therefore concluded the discussion and closed the sitting after the committee had read the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u526	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first I ask of Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u527	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Spokesman! It is right what you have pointed out that the Ombudsman should be an impartial guarantor of our rights in a system that does not enter into political life, but the report and practice show otherwise. In fact, it's okay that you're reviewing political life, so that's my review of this report -- we're speaking on behalf of parliamentary political groups. When I read the report, I had this feeling that we were alive - Mr. Spokesperson and I - in two different countries. [[That's it. That's it. That's it.]] Your country is controlled by lawlessness, increasing threats to human and citizen rights, the crisis of the rule of law and constitutional order. My Poland, on the other hand, is a country where free and responsible people live. [[Voice from the room: PKN, Orlen.]] Their voice is heard, freely and freely spoken. They have the right to approve and disapproval of the state of the politicians. [[On TVP Info.]] Yes, sir, we live in parallel worlds. And in my opinion... I read in the report, for example.: The continuing inefficiency of mechanisms to prevent torture and degrading treatment is worrying. Torture? In Poland in 2018? Abuse... [[Voice from the room: Igor Stachowiak.]] What year is it? We're talking about 2018. [[Oh, so it is.]] Abuse... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're referring to an event from a completely different time. Abuse... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't scream, don't scream. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are the one shouting.]] Abuse is not a rule. And further: Improving the economic situation, social policy and falling unemployment have helped to reduce poverty and improve the quality of life of citizens. At the same time, there is no effective regulation and effective administration in many cases of social exclusion or homelessness. I'm not even gonna argue with that, why? It is possible that the spokesperson actually lives in a country of human rights violations, widespread homelessness and torture, but I don't. Because you use words that create a false image of Poland. You point out that we are becoming a society more and more divided, conflicted, increasingly allowing extreme feelings in speech and emotions. A document such as the one you presented really arouses extreme emotions, as well as some of your activities. In me, as a man with a great sense of responsibility for happiness, it only surprises me. On the other hand, I agree with your spokesman that 57,000. issues reported by citizens to the offices of his institution are more than in 2017. And I am pleased to see the diagnosis of the situation that you are making, saying that the legal awareness of citizens should be increased that the state should educate citizens in this area. Yeah, it should be. It should also create clear and clear rules for them, guarantee effective courts and review bodies. And we, Mr. Spokesperson, are doing this and we will do it so that citizens do not address the Ombudsman with matters relating to the tardiness of the courts and judicial experts to... [[Voice from the O.R.: We're going to eliminate...]] ...they were not affected by long official proceedings on the rights to benefits and social protection. The document you presented is as usual - because it's... [[Voice from the O.R.: Eliminate.]] ...annually submitted to the House - a comprehensive report - is a more than 500-page document, which describes all the inconveniences, pains and defects in our 38 million-dollar society in 57,000. Asking for help from your spokesperson. We study him carefully for this... [[What is this...]] ...to make these individual issues an impulse for us to make further changes in the judiciary, in social care, in health care, in the field of public finances or health care, with care and integrity. Because if there are matters relevant to our citizens in the report, it is of crucial value to us. [[Mother... don't change... I'm begging you.]] However, with many statements, with far-reaching conclusions that you are drawing, I cannot and will not agree. It is important for me to see the report saying that - I quote - the Ombudsman is a supporter of judicial reform in Poland, provided that these reforms meet the standards of the rule of law and do not affect the constitutional principle of the threefold division of power. This is how we see judicial reform. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the hall: What about the minister?]] We note the parts of the report on the study carried out on discrimination and unequal treatment. We're concerned about the fact that the spokesperson says that 84% persons who have experienced or witnessed discrimination have not reported this fact to any institution. That's very important information. The consent to discrimination, to deepening and disregarding inequalities is also not and will not be. That is why I consider this section of the report to be particularly important. It's worth asking your spokesperson here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to clarify what actions he has taken in the area of protection of rights, e.g. believers, insulted and discriminated against because of their faith, because there is little in the report... [[Or maybe they're not reporting?]] ...and what's there doesn't even make sense to quote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u528	Thank you very much, sir. [[There it is. It was five o'clock, it was fine.]] [[What was that supposed to be?]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition - I understand that you have sometimes shared - Mr Michał Szczerba and Mrs Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u529	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! The first remark is the attention to your marshal. You programmed the Ombudsman's activities and compliance with human and civil rights as the last point of this meeting, just before hours. 24. It is also, Your Marshal, a testimony to how this side of the room, as well as how you personally treat the activities of the Ombudsman, the constitutional body that upholds human rights and the citizen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] I said, Your Marshal, once from this podium: PiS is a lie. Today I have to say: the PiS lies and goes on, because Mr Milewski's words about the unfettered discussion and the possibility for the Ombudsman to speak at the Justice Committee are a lie. Yesterday we saw Mrs Pavłowicz and President Piotrowicz, how they brutally shut off the microphone to the Ombudsman of civil rights, preventing him from answering the question which we have tabled. [[Applause]] [[That's what happened. That's what happened.]] High Izbo! When it comes to vileness, you can't keep quiet. And neither can we. Then, when the ombudsman is unjustly attacked, there are aggressive campaigns, presumptuous accusations, this is the moment when we, citizens and citizens, should stand up for our ombudsman. We are also here, Mr. Spokesman, to pay your highest respect and to say that we are also with you at this point. [[Applause]] Mr. Spokesman did not suppose that he would come to serve, to hold this office at an extreme time when, for the first time since his freedom was regained, power was not only questioning constitutional values, destroying the three divisions of power, but also brutally pushing, restricting civil rights, fighting independent institutions. And the Marshal of the Sejm what? The Marshal of the Sejm doesn't execute the NSA's sentence... [[Yes, sir.]] ...or reveals a letter of support to the members of the neo-KRS. [[Applause]] Power is pissing people off, sorting them out, violating privacy. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Crime.]] [[Voice from the room: This is a crime.]] The authorities are also talking about this... What does TVP say? Queues to the doctor become the past. What are the facts? What's the report from your spokesperson? The queues are getting longer, and access to medical services is getting harder and harder. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman, for your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u530	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u531	High Izbo! Today, we are talking about the work of the spokesperson of human affairs who defends ordinary people, educates and helps, brings to light difficult matters, such as those that violate the guaranteed rights of man and citizen, defends personal dignity, defends freedom, stands on the side of equality and equal treatment, is always on the side of the weaker one, always on the side of the needy. But it's not easy on his mission. It is a ballast for power that tramples the constitution, destroys democracy and restricts citizens' freedoms. He is independent, he is not subject to any authority, to any president or party. He's doing his duty to people. She's not a puppet, she's not in the corner. He is a brave and wise voice at this very difficult time, the last guardian of the constitution, which should be a signpost for all of us. That's why he's the salt in the eye of the rulers. The Ombudsman devotes a percentage of his work to cases of equal treatment. The scale of discrimination based on race, origin, sex, nationality, religion, religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation is enormous and unfortunately increases. It grows because power gives consent to homophobia, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, and since there is permission, the streets are getting bolder and bolder with a dark wave of hatred, contempt and division. The Ombudsman's activity does not like the current power, which is why he's been on the run for months. Since it cannot be cancelled, it can be discredited and tried to offend, and this is a steak of the names exclaimed by Mrs Pawłowicz, and this is an outrageous act by Mr Piotrowicz. On the way there was even a reduced budget, manipulation, a lawsuit and slander. And he's the spokesperson for human affairs. Only in 2018, people reported 57 thousand to the Ombudsman. cases. Behind each of them is a man with his inalienable and inviolable dignity, conscience, sensitivity, CV, acquis, family and privacy, because the most important thing for the Ombudsman is man. That's why he stands up for the most important values, democratic standards, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Looks at the power of hands, the weapons of the victims and the weak. Mr. Spokesman! You have the courage to be smart. I thank you and your colleagues for your work and for the report that has been presented, which, like the Constitution, should be a direction indicator for all of us, should be a signpost for all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u532	Thank you, Member. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u533	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Spokesman! Minister! Doctor! My colleague from the club PSL - Coalition Polska Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present the content assessment of your report in a moment. Let me therefore take a short quote from Orwell's animal farm: "The animals in the garden looked at the pig, it's man. Then again on the pig and on the man, but no one could figure out who was who. Mr. Spokesman! Minister! Doctor! We in the club PSL - Coalition Poland, we in the European Union of Democrats treat this House as a Sejm, not a stall or a pigsty. I want you to know that what you heard yesterday was the voice of this part of the room, not the whole Sejm. I express here, like every year, regardless of the time, on behalf of our club, respect for your work. Thank you for your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u534	Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u535	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is such a reflection that somewhere in this House, it seems to have escaped the conviction that the Ombudsman of civil rights is neither opposition nor authority. He is a person who, above everything that happens here sometimes, looks at the rights and obligations of every citizen. It plays the role of a kind of lawyer for the rights and obligations, freedoms and freedoms of every citizen, and should so be the case. For this model, Mr. Spokesperson, I would like to begin by thanking you very much for these next years of your work in this spirit. I also wanted to thank on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland for this document, which we received, which we were able to get acquainted with. It deserves special attention, but above all reflection and drawing appropriate conclusions from all representatives of public authority. It includes, in particular, actions carried out by the Ombudsman, but also points to problems and negligence that may affect any Pole. It should be pointed out that in 2018 many previously known threats related to the observance of freedom and the protection of human and citizens' rights increased in our country. New phenomena have also emerged. First of all, there has been a deepening of the systemic problems of the rule of law crisis and constitutional order observed in recent years. The process of change led to a breach of the balance of the authorities, discrediting the role of the judicial authority, thereby restricting the exercise of the citizen's right to an independent and independent court. Moreover, the practice of slandering, slandering and removing persons who have the courage and oppose the Minister of Justice, organised in the Ministry of Justice, deserves attention. The so-called one. The troll farm, led by the Vice Minister of Justice, is the best evidence of pathology, not in justice, but in the Ministry of Justice. Unfortunately, the organized hat resembles actions from the far and dark years of the previous century. As the Ombudsman further points out in his report, in many areas of life we have noted violations of the rights of people experiencing discrimination and violence. No one needs to be reminded: personal attacks, physical attacks on people who have different views than the current power. We all remember the spitting women who were carried out from the protest sites just because they dared to express their disobedience to the rule of a democratic state. Where it is beneficial for the authorities, the state services act instantly, and where they prefer to silence the matter, as if they were not at all. The prosecution's investigation to identify the people who staged the gallows with the images of the Members has probably been at a dead end for two years. Because, Mr. Spokesperson, Doctor, this is the last sitting before the election, I would like to thank you for your hard work, for complying with the bill on which you operate, despite the invective, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are constantly falling at your address. I hope that the law will still be respected in Poland, court directives implemented and respect for institutions that work for Poles will exist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u536	Thank you, sir. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15. Please. There isn't? Mr Robert Majka, not associated. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, Doctor! It is a pity that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki is not present and that there are no representatives of Law and Justice. I must say, my term of office and my humble service for a year is over. To be honest, I've personally experienced something that's been a psychic for me after 30 years. Namely, as a member of the Parliament's Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have experienced many times, and especially yesterday, quite shocking behaviour of President Piotrowicz towards the doctor, whom President Piotrowicz prevented from answering, among others. to the questions I asked at the committee meeting. I remind you that I am a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Human Rights. As the name suggests, it is simply the principle of justice and human rights that should be observed there. Well, the situation is quite trivial. I took the opportunity to be a member appointed by the High House, the judge of the Court of State, to draw attention to a very important issue, namely the case relating to the first Supreme Court President, Ms Margaret Gersdorf. Why am I bringing this up? Because to me, it's a thing. it is impossible to think that a Polish citizen would charge the Supreme Court judge. Neither the media nor Mrs. Gersdorf did anything about it. First of all, there's no indictment against the person who's charging these charges. This isn't funny, ladies and gentlemen. Because let's imagine that someone in the United States is making public criminal charges against a Supreme Court judge. It is unthinkable that neither the media nor the Supreme Court judge himself will take action. It's against the civilized state. I wanted to get to the point. In the report that you presented for 2018, we find the wording of the article. 54 of the 1997 Constitution on the Guarantee of Freedom of Speech. In my opinion, in line with my experience, Mr Spokesperson - and I would very much ask that you address this issue - the provision of the Constitution guaranteeing Poles and politicians that freedom of speech is not respected at all. Ladies and gentlemen, your marshal, we are living in a paradoxical reality in which erystics have been applied between two political parties for 30 years. Namely Schopenhauer already described what it is in the publication on eristics. The consequences of this are clear: unnecessary war between two political parties. Poles don't want that. I would very much ask the Ombudsman to address this issue when it comes to respecting the law on freedom of expression. As a Member, a humble Member from Przemyśl, from Podkarpacie, on 19 July 2019 I even organized a protest in front of the Polish Press Agency against violations of constitutional law to express my views. I made a written invitation to Mr. Wojciech Surmach to come to this protest. That's the document. Unfortunately, Mr. Wojciech Surmacz did not even have the courage to come and express his position. Yesterday at the committee meeting, Mr. Spokesperson, I presented to you documents, copies of many of my parliamentary interpellations, which were forwarded to the Polish Press Agency. I would very much ask you to take care of this case. Thank you very much for your work. Of course, this is a great paradox. I am not a member of any political party in the Sejm, but I am hoping that your spokesperson will simply take care of this matter, because this is an extremely important matter. Thank you very much. That's it, Marshal. [[Ovations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u538	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Monika Wielichowska. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u539	Dear Ombudsman, To institutions loyal, obedient and subordinate to power, as I said earlier, the institution of the Ombudsman does not belong. We all see it. The RPO budget is severely reduced. I wanted to ask you, what does it look like over the last few years? What does it look like in the proposals for 2020? What are the financial constraints? And who's gonna get hurt in the end? I also wanted to ask you about requests for an emergency complaint because the Ombudsman's institution has been dealing with applications for an emergency complaint for some time now. If I'm not mistaken, over 4,000 have come to you so far. such conclusions. I wanted to ask if, in connection with this new assignment, you were given, as an institution, any extra money. Finally, one more question: How to work with a proxy [[♪ The bell ♪]] tho equal treatment, which I think is, and how is it not? I've been asking that for a while now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u540	Thank you. There you go, Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u541	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I hear Mr Milewski's words all the time that yesterday we had the opportunity to discuss freely. But these questions, which also concern current issues, we did not get an answer, you simply could not answer them. Deputy Prime Minister PiS Mr. Sasin said that if there's nothing to hide, there's nothing to be afraid of. What's the point? The point is that Minister Ziobro transferred 25 million zlotys to the special service, which probably bought a system of surveillance of phones and computers, a system that can spy on everything a particular person does and has on his smartphone. Mr Spokesman, the question is: is this situation of concern to you as regards human rights, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to civil rights in our country? What is your position on this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Michael.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u542	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u543	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! This is the last report by the Ombudsman during this term of office of the Sejm. It's an extremely difficult term of attorney because instead of an ally, he had an enemy in charge. The enemy only because in his work he raised matters important to citizens, in many cases inconvenient to power. What kind of spokesperson is he supposed to be? Just one who's not afraid to take sides with an ordinary man and his problems. The current power doesn't like it. Adam Bodnar was often uncompromisingly attacked in this House by members of the governing camp. The culmination of this term was the unprecedented events of yesterday's session of the Justice Committee. It was at this meeting of the Committee on Justice - justice by name only - that its President, Mr Piotrowicz, did not allow the Ombudsman's questions to be answered. That's where Mr. Adam Bodnar was attacked in an extremely rude way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and discrediting Mrs Pavłowicz to the end, without reaction of the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u544	Sir, please... Mr. President, I'm sorry. Question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u545	I thank you very much, Mr Spokesperson, for this report and for your full dedication to the people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u546	Thank you. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki. [[And the question?]] No questions asked. [[There isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u547	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind my colleagues here, from PiS in particular, and your referee, that CBOS studies have been carried out on the level of confidence in public institutions. And the Ombudsman has much higher ratings than the government, than the Sejm and Senate, than the IPN, than the public television, than the neo-Tribal Constitutional. He has the lowest degree of mistrust - only 14%. Government distrust is more than 50% , [[Applause]] to the Seym and the Senate - almost 60%, so, ladies... This institution does not welcome your approval, because the Ombudsman looks at the government's hands, criticizes that it invents weak points, and that is what the Ombudsman is for, while he enjoys great social trust. But how do you treat such an institution, a spokesman, who looks at your hands? As far as the budget is concerned, there has been a threefold increase in expenditure on the Senate, on the government - a double increase, on the Sejm - also a very serious increase. [[Voice from the room: IPN.]] What about the spokesperson? [[♪ The bell ♪]] They are at 2011 level. That's how you treat human rights. You just don't want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u548	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u549	...that human rights in Poland should be guarded by someone, how you implement them. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Martin!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u550	Mr President, that was not a question either. Mrs Monica Rosa. Please. These are questions for the Ombudsman, Madam Member. To the spokesperson. [[It was for the rapporteur.]] I'm saying there isn't. It wasn't a question for your spokesperson, it wasn't a question. [[If we have 10 seconds, I have a question at the end...]] This is neither funny nor funny, Mr. President. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u551	Mrs. Marshalkini! Mr. Spokesman! I have a question: What action has the government taken to fight against hate speech, discrimination against non-heteronormative people, transgender people? What action did the government take to fight domestic violence against women, against children? What action has the government taken to fight xenophobia, intolerance, fascism? What action did the government take to combat the situations that took place in Bialystok during the equality march? What measures did the government take to improve the state of child psychiatry in Poland? What measures did the government take to improve the state of Polish health protection? What action has the government taken to improve the rule of law in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u552	Thank you, Member. I thought this was a question for your spokesperson, not the government, but maybe I was wrong. Mr Adam Szłapka. Please. [[But maybe he wouldn't comment on that once.]] Perhaps, sir. Maybe. But as you can see, I keep you company in these late nights. [[Maybe it's a late hour, the Member didn't understand.]] [[A voice from the hall: But mercy.]] No, it's no mercy. It's just a statement of fact. [[Voice from the room: At your request.]] [[Voice from the room: We could talk about this calmly tomorrow at an hour. 8:00 a.m.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u553	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I have three specific questions. The first case concerns the death of Mr. Kostecki in prison, whether there have been any abuses there, whether there have been intentional omissions, whether this case has been investigated or whether the government has behaved fairly in this case. The second case concerns the action of the Marshal of the Sejm, whether, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, it is not a breach of the Article to execute the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court. 61 constitutions, i.e. citizen's right to have access to public information. The third issue is whether, in the opinion of the Ombudsman, the use of government resources in the electoral campaign is not a violation of the constitutional principle of equality in elections during the election campaign to the European Parliament. I've got the photos. I've filed an application for it with the D.A.'s office. Voivodship offices cars were used to run an election campaign [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws and Justice. Please answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u554	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, you are welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u555	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Mr Milewski, I would like to live in your world, I would really like to, but President Jarosław Kaczyński, with your help, forces not only me but many citizens to live in the world that you describe. I have an unusual question for the Ombudsman whether he will accept an apology for the behaviour of Members of the Law and Justice yesterday for how you were treated. This shows the arrogance, the shoe, and the rudeness, because one of the messengers can define this behavior as such. Why is there such an attack on you? Simple answer. It is the only constitutional body that has not yet been included in the Law and Justice portfolio. We need to do everything we can to ensure that next time, the Ombudsman doesn't fall prey to Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u556	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Rafał Grupiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u557	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The last two hours are two sides of a medal that could be called democracy... [[Democracy 3.0.]] ...if, on the other hand, anything from this democracy were present. On the one hand, the KRS, as President Kaczyński says: non est. An institution that doesn't exist because it was chosen contrary to the constitution. On the other hand, the Ombudsman, who represents the rights of citizens, democratic Poland, the right side of the coin I mentioned. The thing is, I don't know, Theocrat, Cicero, Seneca - dum spiro, spero. There's a very old saying: as long as I breathe, I don't lose hope. So let us not lose hope, Mr. Spokesperson, that this side of Poland, which you represent, constitutionally, democratically, citizenly will win this [[♪ The bell ♪]] The dark side that PiS represents today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u558	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u559	Mrs. Marshal! You, me and all of us are at work and no one is doing grace - none - that together we are doing what the Sejm Bureau adopted today for consideration, that is, information from the Ombudsman's activities. [[We could have done it tomorrow morning.]] [[No, because the opposition wanted to, your marshal said.]] Dear Minister, Mr. Spokesman! I'm grateful for this document. I am very sorry for your meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights yesterday. But the behavior that would be worthy of such a presentation of this information and of getting to know what people are writing to you, unfortunately I have not seen. I wanted to ask, because this has been going on for many years since the rule of law and justice took over: Is your budget enough? Because if we speak and add to other institutions, we know the amendments and the resources are reduced every time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm not gonna talk about specific things. Please tell me, do you feel that you are not able to perform your constitutional duties? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u560	Thank you, Member. There you go, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u561	Mrs. Marshalkini! Mr. Spokesman! High Seym! I'd like to ask you something like that. Namely, the former President of the Parliament's Committee on Culture, Mrs Kruk, who is now a European MEP, announced that she hopes that Poland will soon become free from LGBT environments. I wanted to ask you how you understand these declarations. Is this the formula that was introduced in the Third Reich in 30 years, when it was said about Yudenfrei? [[That's what Himmler said, Himmler said.]] Is this human rights violations and exclusion of the LGBT environment from our public space? I ask you to answer this question because I am deeply concerned about the threatening fascism in Poland. And this fascism is actually a crawling form of the system that we're dealing with today. I'm asking you to answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u562	Thank you. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u563	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2018, I submitted a request to make public a letter of support for the judges who applied for the KRS. They have not been made public. In 2019 the final final judgment of the NSA was passed. But your marshal here doesn't execute that sentence. It is not possible to verify whether there were enough signatures, for example in the case of Judge Nowacki, that we do not know that this choice has been made in accordance with the letter of law. The choice of a judge with a legal defect to the KRS means the choice of a council with a legal defect, followed by the choice of judges elected by that council with a legal defect. And the judgments which they will deliver will also be judgments with a legal defect, and they can be renewed. Therefore, I have a question as to how you assess this situation and the circumstances I have cited in the context of the Article. 45 constitutions, which guarantees Poles the right to court. How do you assess this situation in the context of the stability of legal trading in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u564	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Sławomir Piechota.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u565	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman very much. [[Applause]] For consistent, persistent, reliable... For extremely competent engagement and for actions for people with disabilities. The Ombudsman mentioned in his information that the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment concerning benefits to caretakers of adults with disabilities had not been enforced for five years. Isn't that, in your opinion, symptomatic just for the attitude of the current government? After all, the representatives of this government, here in this Chamber, demanded that people with disabilities be deprived of the right to vote in correspondence, saying that disabled people are particularly susceptible to the trading of votes in elections. For the first time in 10 years, the employment of people with disabilities in civil service has also decreased in the last two years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this is such a concrete manifestation not of clichés, but of real daily practice in treating people with disabilities. I'm asking for your position on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u566	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Robert Majka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u567	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question will refer to my speech. I would very much ask that the spokesperson, the doctor, refer to whether the right of freedom of speech is respected in Poland. Like I said, is the article being followed? 54 of the 1997 Constitution, as well as Article. 6 and Article 6 Ten press laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u568	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u569	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Things that are important in the Seym happen late at night. Also today, one of the most important hearings held every year in the Sejm takes place after midnight. This, of course, shows how the current majority treats human rights, treats citizens' rights. A visible sign of contempt is the empty benches at the right hand. Mr. Spokesman! I would like to express my admiration and gratitude for this firm attitude in defending civil rights. By the way, I would like to ask whether citizens are reporting cases of use of force by various services to harass situations where political protests are taking place. I am talking about this as the President of the Parliamentary Group. Monitoring respect for human and civil rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such cases have been reported during our meetings. I would like to ask if it was continued in the Ombudsman's office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u570	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Ombudsman to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u571	Dear Marshal! Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! Thank you very much for your assessment of the work, for all your thanks and support for yesterday's situation. I will try to make the most of this time to answer questions and answer them. I will start with Mr Milewski's comments. Mr President, the Member said that you are concerned that I see torture in Poland, that I am talking about the Igor Stachowiak case. But I'm talking about this case in a system context. I'm talking about this case in the context of what was done after this case. A lot of things aren't left. It's done, it hasn't been done, and it hasn't been repaired, so we don't have cases like this. Moreover, our office practice shows that there are more stories of violence against those deprived of freedom at police stations. If you are interested, I would be happy to provide you with detailed information. On the other hand, I would like to point out that perhaps he has not been informed about this. Namely, at the beginning of August, the UN Committee against Torture adopted the whole report, which is devoted to Poland and the problem of torture, inhuman and degrading treatment. And you probably did not get this report because the person who was responsible in the government for this report and for representing the government in the international arena in Geneva was Mr Łukasz Piebiak, who led a delegation of 25 people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] As far as homelessness is concerned, I invite the Member again. Maybe we can go to one, the other or the third homeless center in Warsaw, Czestochowa, Gdańsk or Krakow. Let's see what those affected by the homeless crisis say, if they have state support, how they do it, when they are, for example. patients with various chronic diseases and cannot be admitted to different places and cannot be adequately supported in such centres. Maybe we can talk about the statistics of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which estimates that we have 32,000. people affected by the homelessness crisis. We also have homeless children in Poland. That's what the government reports are talking about. It's not like I'm inventing a new reality. The Member asked me what I do for people who are discriminated against because of their faith. Of course, in such a situation, the question arises whether you are asking about those who belong to majority or minority faith. I deal with both minority and majority representatives of religions. In the report in the article. 32 you will find detailed information on teaching religion or ethics in schools. In particular, minority religions are not best treated. There is also a report by the Ombudsman on equal treatment due to the admission of employment in 2018, which shows, interestingly, that Catholics, as a majority, can also be discriminated against in the workplace if, for various reasons, they are hindered by e.g. using religious symbols or creating such an excessive atmosphere, you can say, secularization. If not enough, in the article. 53 we will find information about interventions concerning the desecration of the chapel in Opole. There is another very important issue. I pay very much attention to historical matters. In the 1970's, we were able to exonerate seven convicted witnesses of Jehovah. These are important sentences. The Supreme Court goes back to these matters and grants justice to people who were being persecuted for their faith in the times of the Polish People's Republic. The reform of the judiciary. If it were so great, the Court of Justice would not rule in the case of the Commission v Poland. If it were so great, we would not have waited for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will come in October and concern the status of the National Judicial Council. If it were so great, there would not be a whole series of preliminary questions that were asked by Polish judges. If it were so great, we would not have had a new case pending before the Strasbourg Court of Grząt against Poland, which concerns competitions organised by the National Courts Council. So that this judicial reform simply does not meet the standards of the threefold division of power and independence of the judiciary. I am the first person - I have been in court for several years, also in my previous job, on many different levels - to reform courts, but not in such a way that the independence of the judiciary is limited. Dear Marshal! Dear Members, A few questions. Mr Majka's question on the article. 54 constitutions. Art. 54 This is a rule that says not only that we can say certain things, but also that as citizens and representatives of society, society also has the right to obtain information. Please note that it is not only about disseminating information but also about obtaining information. In our legal system, we have certain institutions, such as public media, but also the Polish Press Agency, which should inform about all important events in the public interest. They should not discriminate, they should not restrict access to information, all relevant events should be kept informed on an ongoing basis. Of course, the question arises as to whether this always happens. I do not know this situation with the PAP, which you spoke about, but, of course, when it comes to public media, I have often intervened and pointed out that perhaps the communication of information is not as it should be. I also intervened in the context of the elections and the implementation of the article. 54. I asked about the impartiality of public media in the local election campaign. I have sent appropriate letters to the National Council of Radio and Television and the Council has assured that in its opinion, Polish Television reports an election campaign in an impartial manner. That was the answer. I also dealt with the release of journalists, also from public media, and managed to finish one case - Mr Jerzy Sosnowski, in whom we were involved and who as a trade unionist was fired from the Radio Three. Several questions concerned the Ombudsman's budget. Yes, the budget is limited due to the fact that it does not meet the real needs of the Ombudsman's office and, in principle, every time over the past few years, as we have presented reasonable opinions on why we should get certain money - we even had positive opinions from the Sejm Analysis Office, even when the rapporteur said that everything was okay and that it was okay for the Ombudsman - it later turned out that we were going through discussions and that the budget was significantly cut. As a result, we have underfunding for the criminal law team that deals with the handling of the cassation, we have underfunding for the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, the Inhuman and Demeaning Treatment. This has concrete consequences for citizens, not only when it comes to delaying the recognition of cases, but also to such an extent that, for example, it is. We're about to find out that there's been another difficult situation in a social worker's home or some kind of detective's arrest, and there's a question about where you were, why you didn't notice. That's what I'm talking about. Because maybe my colleagues from KMPT, which is from this prevention mechanism, didn't get there because we don't have enough personnel. We should have a few more employees, and ultimately at least 20.25, and we work with about 10 people. As far as last year is concerned, of course, extraordinary complaints are a major problem. The U.S. Attorney General has been given an increase in funds to deal with requests for emergency complaints. The Ombudsman's office, despite numerous attempts, appeals to the Prime Minister, calls for some funds to be transferred from the budget reserve, all of which were left unrecognized, did not receive a single additional zloty. Therefore, the situation is that we actually have over 4,000. proposals submitted to the Ombudsman's office, but we simply have to deal with this as part of the work of those who work at the office, which, of course, affects the quality of this work. I don't even mention such things as promoting human rights, engaging in various educational activities or issuing reports on e.g. equal treatment. In fact, we need to cut our spending on what we can. Cooperation with the proxy for equal treatment is not working out well - I think there is nothing to hide. I had so much hope that with Minister Lipinski we could solve the problem of the Roma settlement in Maszkowice. We even agreed once that we would go there together and maybe cause this problem to be solved, and it didn't even work out. The Pegasus system. This week I addressed my speech to the Prime Minister. I think it is very disturbing that we have a system that allows, in principle, unlimited testing of what is happening on a person's mobile phone. But I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members to the NIK report of 29 June 2018, where it is written this way: In the assessment of NIK, the Ministry of Justice broke the law by transferring PLN 25 million from the Justice Fund in 2017. The House will file a request for violation of public finance discipline. So that this discussion about Pegasus and its likely purchase has been known for many months and the Supreme Audit Chamber has referred to this. On the other hand, back to Pegasus: in my opinion, the problem lies in something even bigger, i.e. even as if there was no Pegasus and so checking billing data, IT data takes place in Poland in principle without more control. The only duty the police and the prosecution have is to present statistical reports every once in a while, how many times and in the context of which crimes we have used it. But it doesn't even show that in relation to such a person or to such a person or to such a case, in general: when it comes to abuse of power, we've checked 10,000. times. That's it. And now look for a needle in a haystack, what it was really all about and what it was all about. Mrs Rosa had a series of questions. I think that maybe I will focus on one thread, if you allow: on the rights of non-heteronormative persons, all the more so because it relates to the subject raised by Mr Mieszkowski. I believe that we are increasingly dealing with the exclusion of LGBT people from public space. I believe that the adoption of resolutions by local governments violates the constitution. I believe that these resolutions against LGBT ideology have a normative value. I have received Professor David Six's opinion on this subject and we are slowly preparing to bring these resolutions before the administrative court. On the other hand, I would like to say and also stress that I am really trying to be apolitical. I did not like the fact that city presidents, also associated with parties such as the SLD and the Civic Platform, banned equality marches. They banned equality marches in four cities, and every time I protested against those decisions and complained to the court. I do not understand the fact that the legal standard is well known, and yet decisions are made on such a basis - as we know - that the courts will later repeal it. [[Security.]] Security is not an argument in this case, and for example the courts in Lublin or recently in Poznań confirmed this. Now, the question seems very important to me, and I would like to take advantage of the time available here. I believe, Your Marshal, with all due respect, that your Marshal should execute the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court and disclose letters of support. [[Applause]] I believe that the actions of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, as well as the request to the Constitutional Court, are looking for some magical legal trick to simply not do so. We are faced with a final judgment by the Supreme Administrative Court, which judges the issues of privacy, the protection of the right of access to public information and justifies that these lists should be disclosed. And they should be disclosed. I don't see any legal arguments. Moreover, I have made such arguments because I have joined the administrative procedure conducted by the President of UODO, claiming that it is unfounded and that the action should be discontinued in this respect. With regard to the death of David Kostecki, we are still conducting an investigation and I would not like to comment on this at this moment. As for the use of business cars in the election campaign, my opinion is that of course this should not happen, but I do not know the specifics of what it should look like. The electoral campaign is different, and the other thing is to perform public tasks. With regard to Ms Gasiuk-Pihowicz's question about the National Judicial Council, of course, the situation of questioning the composition of the National Judicial Council will have repercussions for the stability of legal trade not only in Poland but also throughout the European Union. That's the problem. After all, in a moment we will have a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and, I think, now the judges are wondering: Okay, if we say that what happened to the National Judicial Council, and this selection procedure is incompatible with European law and with the standards on judicial independence, what will this have to do with the whole legal system? Does this mean that all judgments handed down by judges who have been appointed by the new National Judicial Council are invalid? It's a big dilemma, but it's something we're about to face. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u572	Mr. Spokesman, I have to thank you because time is up. Thank you so much for answering my questions. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[It's petty, to be offended for your remarks.]] I'm not offended, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u573	Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u574	There you go. And please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Daniel Milewski. [[There were no questions for you.]] The rapporteur also has the right to take the floor after the discussion at the end. [[Voice from the room: There were no questions for you.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u575	Dear Ombudsman, I do not question examples of behaviour - worthy of condemning behaviour - irresponsible people, but if we are to adapt the legal system to these behaviours, there is no paragraph for stupidity. As far as homelessness is concerned, I meet with homeless people, invite them to meals and talk to them, but neither torture nor homelessness is a rule, and when you report on the continuing ineffectiveness of mechanisms to prevent torture, that is what makes it seem like. [[No, you read it wrong.]] We are dealing not with a system of torture, but with damned behaviors of irresponsible people. If we are talking about the work of a team of spokespersons, each of us is respectful of the work of this team, even if only the fate of one citizen, the fate of one family was to be improved by helping better respect their rights, because this work makes sense. Only that you asked us to avoid political speeches or campaigning in this discussion, and did anyone in this Chamber really hear one question about the content of the report today? [[The voice from the hall: Yes, I did.]] No. [[Voice from the O.R.: Health Services.]] No. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Legal certainty. Right to court.]] No, you're referring to situations that either happened earlier, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] or they happen now. Definitely most of the questions... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No.]] The vast majority of the questions concerned current cases, and the Ombudsman himself referred to them. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The establishment of the KRS is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u576	Excuse me, sir, just a second. No one interrupted your spokesperson when he answered the questions. Really, ladies and gentlemen, there are very few of us in this room, let's show some respect. No one interrupted your spokesperson. [[But please...]] Madam President, please, I, too, may disagree with what the Ombudsman has said, may not agree, but we have not spoken, we have given time for him to speak calmly, so please give the opportunity to speak to the Member. I'm asking you to. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I answered the question. The KRS has been called...]] Member, how can this be treated? Maybe you can address this situation with an ombudsman. There are Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, there is a marshal who conducts the deliberations, and the Member discusses with me all the time, discusses it over and over again. Is everything all right, Member, in your opinion? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's not okay, my fellow Member. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Your Marshal, the question has been answered, I answered.]] Don't argue with me, please. You have the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u577	If we were Members together, all of us... After all, from the point of view of speaking to the Advocate, we are all just one side: Members. If we were watching, and yesterday, and today, talking about, that is, talking about the report, about the report, then there probably wouldn't be any yesterday's problem, or the words I'm saying right now. Because there was more discussion about the competence of your marshal, more about Mr.Piotrowicz or Mrs.Pawłowicz. [[They're asleep.]] But today neither your marshal nor I use the language that was actually used yesterday. It's not like there's anything to describe reality as anything other than it was, that's not the point. Except it was a reaction to a specific situation. [[Voice from the O.R.: What is it?]] And in a very emotional speech, Professor... But she is, and we all know it. [[Voice from the room: But what does that mean?]] I'm sorry, I'm not defending her, I'm just saying that it was a desperate attempt to force a certain reflection on both you and your spokesperson. Do you really not see that this activity - and I am not talking about its sphere as if everyday, I am talking about the sphere of your Ombudsman's greatest personal activity - may appear to be political commitment and unilateral commitment? [[Voice from the room: What does it mean: it can make an impression?]] And since it's in us like this... If we're questioning it... If we believe that the Ombudsman is politically involved and that he is engaged unilaterally, then it should also cause some concern and cause some reflection. This conversation in this courtroom or yesterday in the committee may not have been some big political complaint, just a discussion about the report. Therefore, both yesterday's discussion in committee and today's discussion are missing the objectives for which the report was presented and for which, as far as today's proceedings are concerned, this discussion is being held. We were simply skipping the subject in this discussion as the House. The Ombudsman's institution is undisputedly needed. The Ombudsman as an authority for monitoring, investigating and identifying possible areas requiring correction is an important element of Polish democracy. But on the other hand, Mr. Spokesperson, I would be happy to go with you to these homeless centers, because it is indeed worthwhile for the authorities of the state - or the representatives of the state authorities - to work together. [[Voice from the room: A little late this reflection. It's a little late.]] But should the Ombudsman limit himself to being an uncle of good advice? Because to tell you what's wrong is really anyone can... [[Voice from the room: What should he do, for example? Would you like me to take you to your car?]] And I'm wondering the sense of the publicist comments of the Ombudsman. I would like to use another quote from the report: "Looking from the perspective of recent years, it cannot be overlooked that in 2018 Polish citizens' rights were an object of special interest and assessment by the European institutions and the EU's justice system. [[Voice from the room: Because it's true.]] The process of control of the rule of law has begun, which in itself - regardless of its final outcome - is important information for Polish citizens: we are part of a community that takes the democratic values and principles of the rule of law with the highest seriousness. We, Mr Spokesperson, know this very well, because it is with such due seriousness that we take the values and principles of a democratic rule of law. [[Voice from the room: We know, but we don't understand.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] That is why we oppose the pains that hinder the everyday life of Poles. That is why we are sealing and transforming into a more effective legal system, a social welfare system, a health system. This is our job and four years of action. To conclude, I stress: We live in a country that respects the rights of Poles, a state of legal order... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...and the country of consensus. [[And violations of the constitution.]] Its foundation is joint agreement on the basis of free, universal and fair elections of central and local authorities. On this basis regulations governing Polish everyday life and the everyday life of the civil state are created. Such Poland is and will be, even if we leave this room. Of course, no country in the world is a perfect creation that at the same time satisfies all its inhabitants. We fight harm, inequality and social injustice. We do not agree to social exclusion due to communication, physical or intellectual difficulties. We will continue to repair our country and strive to ensure that as many inconveniences as possible disappear from our citizens' lives. [[But how do you say that? As the draftsman of the committee or as the PiS?]] [[But you say your own personal opinion.]] As the draftsman of the committee. [[Applause]] [[I'm glad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u578	Thank you, sir. I state that the Sejm has read about the activities of the Ombudsman and the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights in 2018. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 11 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Robert Majka has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u579	Mrs. Marshal! You'd like to say, High Izbo, but there's an empty room. The parliamentary term, my humble work, is almost over. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to thank all Poles who supported me in this work as a Member of the Polish Parliament and who helped me. I think there's a lot I can do, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I won't even be able to run for office in the coming elections because I didn't want to be manipulated. I am a free man, I love my country, and I will never be or be manipulated in anyone's hands, whether it's political or personal. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I just wanted to... As I said at today's session of the Sejm, in my opinion, a very important issue, one of the most important, is freedom of expression. I said this to Mr Bodnar, and I asked him to answer the question whether the provision of the article. The 54th 1997 Constitution is respected. I look forward to hearing from your spokesperson as soon as possible. In my opinion, until the Poles stand, they will not protest against the violation of the law, precisely art. 54 of the 1997 Constitution, as well as Article. 6 and Article 6 10 Press laws, nothing will change in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to pretend that there is democracy in Poland. In Poland there is an oligarchic system, of course a system of facade democracy, for which I have evidence. In my opinion only Poles who are aware and will want to change this situation will be able to do so. With access to the media of people, independent politicians, even if modest like me, will be able to move forward, as some say colloquially. The situations of 31 August 2019 and 7 September 2019, which took place in the television programme of Studio Poland, clearly illustrated to me that the theory is one thing and the practice is another. The editor Magda Ogórek and the editor of Łęski showed how they respect the law when it comes to freedom of speech. In my opinion, this is reprehensible. Once again, I would like to thank all of you for the help you have given me for the support you have shown at this short time when I was an MEP. What happens in the future, we'll see. I think that if you wish, I might still be useful when it comes to fighting for sovereign and independent Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u580	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u581	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that this is one of my last parliamentary statements during this term, I feel obliged to thank all the people of the city of Knur, who have supported the development of young people throughout this period, while raising them through sport. Personally, I am also very happy because in the last four years I have been able to get to know them and cooperate with them. First of all, it deserves to be appreciated that these athletes and trainers are primarily socialists who do their activities mainly for charity, and as enthusiasts they simply enjoy watching their subjects grow. First of all, I would like to thank you for your cooperation with the Concordia Knur Sports Club. President of the club Mieczysław Gołąb, who also assisted the Silesian Boxing Union and the Polish Boxing Union, over the years together with the trainers Ireneusz Przywara, Bogdan Danielak, Bogdan Wyrzichowski, Zbigniew Kicka and Łukasz Pluta contributed to the fact that Concordia has in its ranks medals of Polish championships, as well as European and world events. There's a lot of credit for that. Mr Krzysztof Leśniowski - former President of Concordia Knurów, and today President of the NSZZ Solvency at KWK Knurów-Szczygłowice, who to this day supports all athletes from Knurów. One example of youth was also given by fighters who celebrated the greatest successes with Concordia during the previous 10 years. These include Olympians such as Józef Gilewski or Marek Koman - a bronze medalist of the European Junior Championships and boxers, as well as Polish and Silesian fighters Dariusz Wróbel, Sławomir Marciniak, Henryk Wilk, Ludwik Buczyński and Andrzej Młynek. It should also be recalled that all the fighters mentioned and the supporting boxing attach great hopes to Oliwier Zamojski - the medalist of the Polish Championship and Damian Durkacz, who as a boxer from Knurów has a great chance of winning the Olympic medal, and Damian Jonak, today a professional boxer who, winning so far dozens of boxing matches, has given Polish fans great joy. I am also very happy to be working with the Fight Club Knur association, whose president and coach is Mr Grzegorz Sobierajski. The Association celebrates the decade this year, and several hundred declared members have passed through the ranks of the club. The President and Coach Grzegorz Sobierajski trained dozens of kick-boxing players in different weight and age categories, from children to veterans standing in the ring and on mats of national and international events, including the European Cup and World Championships, where his subjects celebrated the greatest triumphs. Appreciating the success and activities of Mr Grzegorz Sobierajski resulted in entrusting him with the role of coach of the Polish Kickboxing Federation. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to express my appreciation to the participants of the cross-country pilgrimage, which took place on 17 and 23 August. The running pilgrimage began in the Romanian town of Sumuleu Ciuc and ended in Jasna Góra. 10 runners and 2 cyclists took part in the pilgrimage. The vast majority of participants were Knurów residents. The pilgrims had about 1,000 to beat. It's a kilometer. It was designed by Marian Płaszczyk, a resident of Knurów, a member of the Jasna Góra Knighthood of Bogorod, who has organized similar projects every year for many years. The route was very demanding, as it ran through Romania, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland. The participants had about 30 km of running per day. At the end of the pilgrimage at the feet of the statue of Our Lady on the square of Jasna Gora there was a big surprise, because Archbishop Wacław Depo greeted them personally. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like once again to thank all these people, as well as others, who, because of the quantity, cannot be mentioned in my statement, for putting their hearts into working with young people, spending their free time and doing so with confidence in the rightness and need to ensure development and correct education of young people. I wish all of these people and their people every success and great moments in everyday life. I'll only mention Mr. Paula Szkatule, a young person, but already a great social worker. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and a functioning convoy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u582	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Lech Dobka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u583	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 8th term of office of the Sejm, during which there have been major changes in the education system, especially in the field of school system. Here you can use a comparison to renovate the house. It was rebuilt, generating some nuisance, as usual, but the time for finishing and home appliances has come again. Similarly, there are further challenges to education arising from the need to improve the reform and the conditions resulting from dynamic changes, particularly in the economic and social spheres. It is necessary to redefine a coherent educational and educational concept of the Polish school. Therefore, it is important to start a calm work on a comprehensive integrated programme basis, including pre-school education and a full cycle of primary and secondary education. The new basis developed should be closely linked to the revised framework curricula. This coherent arrangement should ensure inter-subject integration, greater flexibility in the organisation of school work and the creation of conditions for individual work with an able and supportive student. It is essential to develop a coherent catalogue of knowledge, competences and skills for pupils, which will be the aim of the educational and educational process. Particular attention should be paid to education in the field of natural subjects and information technology, which is the basis for vocational training, and to the development of innovative and entrepreneurial attitudes. The basic condition for success of the new teaching concept is good substantive and methodological preparation of teachers. Changes in the education and improvement system are needed, as the changes so far resulting from, for example, the reform of higher education appear to be insufficient. Particular attention should be paid to developing broadly understood pedagogical skills. Another key condition for building a good Polish school is to ensure stable organizational conditions. It is therefore necessary to develop a coherent system for financing the education system in connection with economic development. Under this system it is necessary to ensure an adequate level of remuneration for teachers and non-pedagogical workers. The revised remuneration system should closely link the level of remuneration with the quality of work and the scope of tasks carried out by the teacher concerned. Furthermore, it is extremely important to call for a fundamental change in pedagogical supervision aimed at assessing the outcomes of education and education. They allowed schools to improve the educational and educational process. In addition, this will significantly reduce the bureaucracy resulting from the current model of supervision and the principles of promotion and evaluation of teachers. These are the four pillars that the right design will ensure a high level of education and education in modern conditions. These changes should be programmed as part of a calm and systematic process. A broad agreement over political divisions is also an important condition. Only under such conditions can the development of Polish education be ensured for many years. It is worth noting that similar conclusions resulted from meetings at the level of both the central, round educational table and a series of voivodship meetings in a similar formula. I think that with the cooperation of the whole educational community we will be able to develop a new, better model of Polish school, which will meet the challenges of the contemporary world and contemporary Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u584	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u585	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that I am impressed that at this hour, in the parliamentary statements, your deliberations are chaired by the marshal himself, for which I warmly thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! This is probably my last speech from this Seymary, and it's very important to me. This is my 202th speech. I wanted to thank all of you, those who are here, and those who will eventually watch this video later, for these four years - four years of cooperation, talks, discussions - starting with Members, of course, by the senators. I wanted to thank all the marshals, present, previous, and vice-marshals for their kindness, for what I could learn here, what I was given. Of course, I would also like to thank the Secretariat of the Sejm for being kind to me when reporting at the last moment that I would like to ask a question. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last four years, I've learned a lot here. I've made a lot of acquaintances, contacts, which I'm sure will be useful in my future work, in my social activities. I learned a lot in the work of Parliament committees, in the work of Parliament, in the field of social and local activities. I also thank all my colleagues, employees, social assistants, sympathizers. It's been a special four years. If even during the next term - because I'm not running - we won't have contact, then maybe we can make it to the Senate, we'll see. Maybe I'll show up at that podium someday. I wanted to mention in my last speech that it was a special four years for me that really brought a lot into my life. I wanted to thank you very much for all this. And to my constituents, both those who voted directly for me and those who voted for our entire list, I will say: I hope that during these four years I have not failed your trust, I have not made mistakes. If I've made one, I'm sorry. I tried my best to do this job that was completely new to me. I hope I have fulfilled your expectations, I have not failed. I also thank you for the trust you gave me four years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u586	Thank you, sir. Good luck with that. Mrs Maria Nowak, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u587	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, in fact, I should say that yesterday, September 11th, is the 154th anniversary of giving city rights to Katowice. The town, founded in the former small castle village with forge roots in a short time, has grown into a big metropolis with broad ambitions, absorbing neighboring larger villages and towns. The symbol of the Katowice metropolis in the interwar period was a skyscraper who was supposed to compete with those seen in New York City. The city was characterized by modern instincts and this value has remained to this day. Katowice in front of our eyes changes its face from the city of heavy industry, where steelworks and mines reigned, transforming into one of the largest centres of culture in Poland. It is one of the youngest cities in the region, but thanks to the commitment and diligence of people, economic resources and favourable conditions it has become its leading and vibrant centre. This is a place of great events, a place where social, cultural, economic and scientific life is focused. The COP24 International Congress Centre in Katowice could be an example of this. As you know, this is the largest forum to develop a common policy to combat negative climate change. The official opening ceremony of the conference honored their presence, among others. President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda and UN Secretary General António Guterres. In May 2019 Interpol conference took place in Katowice. It was attended by representatives of 55 countries in the world, among others. USA, Australia, South Africa, Iraq and the Vatican. It should be noted that on 15 August this year. to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First Silesian Festival of the Polish Army was celebrated for the first time outside Warsaw. They were just in Katowice. More than 2,600 soldiers of the Polish Army took part in the march under the motto "Fellows of Poland," but pro-defense formations, uniform classes and military universities were also defiled. The inhabitants of Katowice and very many inhabitants of the entire Silesian Voivodeship had the opportunity to see the most modern equipment available to the Polish Armed Forces. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, September 10th, in Katowice, the International Exhibition of Mining, Energy and Steel Industry, and the Exhibition of EcoIncineration and Ecotechnologies were opened. It is one of the three biggest events of this industry in the world, in which 350 exhibitors from 12 countries participate. The fair is almost 35 years old. They're one of the region's business cards. The Polish economy and the economy of many regions of the world are still based on coal. This year's edition of the fair attracted the most important producers of coal, mining machinery and equipment, service companies and research units. The fair is accompanied by seminars, thematic panels and competitions. Presented are mining combine harvesters, queues for underground transport, enclosures, conveyors and modern automation and control systems. The fair is visited by representatives of mining tycoons, among others. from Russia, Ukraine, China, countries of Asia, South America or the USA, where the achievements of the Polish mining industry are highly appreciated for modernity and innovation. Today in Katowice there was a solemn session of the city council, during which the anniversary of the granting of city rights was celebrated. For several years the honorary title of the citizen of Katowice has been granted during the solemn session. This year he was awarded by Professor Andrzej Jasiński, academic teacher of the Academy of Music. Karol Szymanowski in Katowice, professor, pianist, jury of international piano competitions, unforgettable teacher and master [[♪ The bell ♪]] Krystian Zimerman and many other outstanding artists. I'm almost done, last sentence. In conclusion, on the 154th anniversary of the hosts of the city of Katowice, I give to the inhabitants and everyone who has found their place of work here or active and full initiatives, wishes that the next years will serve the development of new investments to make the city beautiful, attract ambitious and creative people. So that we can all talk proudly about Katowice, the capital of Silesian Voivodeship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u588	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Nashkiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u589	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 80 years ago World War II broke out, which stole childhood from the young generation, took away the right to learn and learn about the world, took away dreams, sentenced to exile from homes, wanderers, prisons, orphanages, concentration camps and camps, forced millions of young Poles to quickly enter adulthood. On 2 September of this year in the smallest voivodship in Poland, in the Opole Voivodeship, 20 schools joined the project Supporting the environment of War Children. Thanks to this wonderful initiative, representatives of Polish children of the war participated in the inauguration of the school year 2019/2020, thus ending in a symbolic way their break-up to school years ago. This is not the end of the initiative of the interrupted march. Thousands of the generations of our grandparents and great-grandparents, people born before 8 May 1945, have not yet had a chance to tell their stories. I therefore strongly encourage everyone to promote this initiative in their regions, school heads and classroom educators to organise intergenerational meetings that will help our young people appreciate what we have today. Next important anniversaries are ahead of us: Soviet aggression on 17 September, a few days later the creation of the Polish Underground State and underground scouting organizations, Grey Private and Polish leaders, anniversaries of export to Siberia and Katyn crime, first transports to German concentration camps and many, many other anniversaries, opportunities for meetings and talks. Who better to talk about the drama of war if not the person involved? What better way to sensitize a young generation if not a witness's account of these dramatic events? In my home territory, I've been observing the priceless work of your captain for years. Mariana Markiewicz, a veteran of the Vilnius and Newgród National Army, a prisoner of the German Gestapo, the Soviet NKVD and the Communist UB, a stallion born in Kaunas and raised in Vilnius, who as a 15-year-old boy, a peer of present eighth graders, witnessed the Soviet invasion and later participated in the whole drama of World War II and post-war slavery. Its impact on the youth environment, especially youth scouts, is an invaluable investment in the future of the nation and the best hardening of the generation chain. Thanks to the fact that the generation of Polish children of war persisted and preserved the Polish national identity, today the young generation can easily learn Polish history, literature and culture in the Polish school in Polish. Let us show that their dramatic and difficult fate did not go to waste. Let's just listen and write down their relationship. I would like to thank Prof. Jack Kurzpie and those involved in the organisation for this extraordinary undertaking. I congratulate all those who have decided to take part in it so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u590	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Jack Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u591	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Lovers! Because to you, dear fellow citizens of the regional homeland, the land of Lubuskie, today, 11 September 2019, in my last speech before the election act on 13 October this year. Give me God, I'll come back here, but I'll only come back if you think that these four years in my performance as a debut envoy weren't wasted. I think so, I hope so. Those who did not do this, I encourage them to take a closer look at what I did here, what I was talking about from this speaker, what I was doing in the Sejm's cockroaches, but mostly at the Sejm committee meetings, because there is the hardest, most organic work, ours, the parliamentarians, to change Poland for you fellow countrymen, which is also for you Lubuszanie. But our work, our parliamentarians, is not just here on the street. The village, but you know it perfectly well, after all, I have visited you on many occasions on call. As the land of Lubuskie long and wide crossed it to the right and to the left, up and down. And, you know, one of the things that annoyed me the most was when I showed up. You said, "Oh, the Member has finally arrived." Why isn't it different? Usually you've always waited for someone else, underestimating the arrival of the one who greets you here. I don't blame you for that. I do not account for the work of other Members, I do account for my work. So let me thank you for this hospitality, for all the local authorities, for the mayors, for the old people, for the fact that although I am from PiS, and not all of you from PiS, you have opened wide the door to this parliamentarians, who cared about the Lubusian land, our common region, came to you, trying to effectively support your efforts for funding: Mr, and for this, and for this, and for this. You know, politics is teamwork. The discipline we practice: politics is a long-distance discipline, so I want to tell you, dear Lubushus, that the fact that I am a debutante is already gone, now I will enter the second lap. I hope that these 4 years will again be in this traditional relay, where the leaders of the socio-political life of the Lubusian land are also exchanged, I will gain your trust and you will entrust me with this mandate for the next 4 years, because the tasks ahead are still a lot. Let me mention two or three elements that you don't necessarily need to know about, because they go far beyond the Lubusian land and affect youth policy. And it so happens that with great pleasure I can say that, as a result of my visit to the Sejm, very many young people came to work in the youth councils of cities and various units of local government. There were four congresses bringing together young people and tens, thousands of young people in front of webcams, who were seconds away from our congress. But on the other hand, it's also, as Jerzy said, congresses of Polish Children of War. Why am I doing this? Why am I combining these two generations? Because it is the right thing to do, because the wisdom of a mature person must find a vulnerable ground, and this vulnerable ground is most often found in the consciousness of a young man. So not only do I combine generations, but I also combine worlds, worlds sometimes differing too much. Therefore, I ask you to entrust me again with the mandate of a representative of Lubuskie land in the Seym. Surely I will not disappoint you, nor will I bring shame. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u592	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr Wojciech Murdzek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u593	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Wałbrzych is a city which, despite the passage of years, is known for its mining traditions, or perhaps even more from the liquidation of mining and perturbation, which was a consequence of this. Wałbrzych was also a voivodship city. This privilege is lost, and this is another challenge that the city must face. But Wałbrzych is also a city that wants to be a city of dynamic economic development, wants to be a green city, wants to be a city friendly to the inhabitants to inhabit, to achieve their goals and ambitions of life. There is work that improves infrastructure, there are revitalization projects, and there is also a considerable challenge due to the fact that energy, heating, play a very important role in these revitalization processes. The location conditions do not allow the implementation of projects related to wind power plants, they are also economically defined, taking into account local circumstances, obstacles, do not allow us to think about any intensifying of solutions related to photovoltaics. But there's also, I think, the question is that the city has to deal with the fact that the vast majority of heating is still carbon heating, based on old furnaces. Hence, smog-related phenomena are a major challenge. Wałbrzych has adopted plans for a low-carbon economy, low-carbon reduction programmes. I also think that the prospect of using shallow geothermal energy is very interesting for this city. I think this is an interesting project that should be supported, which is worth being supported. We also know about the great plan implemented in cooperation with the National Environmental Fund, for example in Land-Zdrój, which allows for a more detailed analysis of deeper geothermal energy. I am sure that cooperation with the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology and their support for such activities are important challenges. Another thing I wanted to say was the challenge with regard to lease land and Ząbkowice, the challenge with regard to the S8 route. It is a very important project in the implementation phase of documentation, concepts. It is important to secure the means to ensure that this connection can be implemented quickly as announced by the Prime Minister, on a high-speed road dimension. But it is also important that such towns as Dzierżoniów have good communication and improvement of the quality of the roads connecting with the S8 road, especially in connection with northern Poland. These are also projects where the cooperation of local authorities with projects proposed by the government is necessary. In terms of better communication of leased land, the issue of intensive rail work is extremely important. Undoubtedly, apart from the connection with Wrocław, it would be important to revitalize the 137 railway line with full electrification, a very old line connecting Katowice and Legnica. The first episode was created in 1844. It is worth that this line should again take on a deep meaning for passenger traffic and freight traffic. That's the chance. This project should be implemented, it should be strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u594	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u595	Thank you, Marshal. At the end of this term of office, I thank all my fellow countrymen who worked with me both within the parliamentary office in Lublin and in the branch offices in Puławy, Ryki, Poniatowa and Lubartów. All those who participated in numerous meetings or worked in dozens of patronage associations spread throughout Poland. Together we changed Poland. From the Baltic Sea to the Tatras Poland was beautiful. Thank you for that. During meetings with members of housing cooperatives, a few years ago, the idea of embezzling cooperative housing with land was born. Many years ago, the initiator of the patronage of Prof. Adam Biela and a team of collaborators, most often volunteers, patrons of patronage, and the opponents of the prying privatisation, to which I had the opportunity to belong, led to an amendment of the law, which was later amended several times. It guaranteed the acquisition of property rights of the premises by transforming residential and cooperative housing at the cost of construction. Since the co-operatives, making their own contribution and repaying the loan, were merely to supplement the construction cost by the amount of the budget subsidy which, after the denomination, constituted a small sum, millions of co-operatives became owners of the apartments under very favourable conditions. This law exposed unjustified, harmful practices of many boards when buying out so-called. property housing. She put an end to them. There was a lot of resistance. We supported the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which in some judgments He accepted our legal proposals, but in others, after some time, he denied it. This process continues. The process of patronizing apartments continues, has not ended. The bill's working. In this process, the patronage associations were involved, which, as part of the training, prepared their own staff, whose task was to help the co-operatives regain their ownership along with the ground. On this occasion, the mobilisation of the members of the cooperative put considerable pressure on the councillors and therefore the permanent use of land was transformed into property under multi-family housing. We have also made changes in the way cooperatives operate, in reducing mismanagement, in increasing members' rights. A renovation fund has been allocated from the rental fees, which has made it possible to control its use more closely. We also made it possible to obtain the property of parts of the factory apartments under very favourable conditions, i.e. those that were part of the housing cooperative. These positive changes also affected those groups of co-operatives who had apartments built from the National Housing Fund. It was the work of my colleagues from all over the country that led to the write-off of interest on loans after 20 years of regular repayment, and during the current government's term of office there was a tax exemption on these redemption amounts, which saved many families several, several thousand zlotys. The costs of the procedure for the conversion of housing, which are linked to the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, were also reduced. The bill submitted by me on the conversion of perpetual use from the law in the previous term caused a big discussion, drew attention to the relic of communism and resulted in the completion of the transformation of land under residential construction into property during this term, where there were no resolutions adopted by local government units for various reasons. Not everything we've been doing has worked, e.g. there is some progress on the issue of factory housing, but it is not satisfactory for most tenants of former factory housing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The seed we sow sometimes brings fruit in a long time. Here I will even remind you of the bill vetoed by President Kwasniewski, the patronage law, which provides for shares and shares of companies of the Treasury for third, fourth and subsequent children. The value was to be equal to 12 average salaries. This resulted in 500+ because this is the cash implementation of our patronage project from years ago. We still have a lot of work to do. I'm almost done, Marshal. Other changes are required by legislation on electoral ordination in housing cooperatives to the authorities of cooperatives, power of attorneys, water and heat billing, which raises many controversy among many millions of Poles, as well as the usury rules of borrowing from a group of co-operatives. Cooperatives must be recovered for members of the cooperative. I therefore thank all those with whom I came to cooperate for the good of the co-operatives and for the good of Poland. And I hope that I will be able to continue my commitment in the next term of office. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry, Marshal... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-11-sejm-86-1.u596	Thank you, Member. I wish you that. That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting is adjourned until 15 October 2019 until 3 p.m. 9:00 a.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 01 min 46]]
