ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Kristian Jarubas, Mr Wojciech King, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch and Mr Krzysztof Truskolas to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Wojciech Król. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Krystian Jarubas and Arkadiusz Myrch. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u2	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 10, - Health-- hour. 10.30, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 11, - Extraordinary for the examination of draft electoral law laws - hour. 11, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 11, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 14, - Economy and Development - h.m. 14.15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14.15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 2.30 p.m., - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 15, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 15, - Public Finance - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Culture and Media - hour 5:30 p.m., - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 6:30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 19, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 19, - Health-- hour. 9:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Team - break up with plastic - hour 10.30, - Parliamentary Carpathian Team - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Team for the Rights of Life - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 14, - Dolnośląskie Parliamentary Team - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - hour. 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u3	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - supplementary witnessing to persons unable to live alone, - on the amendment of the Education Law Act, - amending the Insolvency Law Act and certain other laws, - amending the Fire Protection Act, - amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints 3676, 3671, 3614, 3642 and 3674. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 23, 24 and 25 of the agenda: 23. Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 together with an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy in 2018 and a draft Commission resolution on discharge (prints No 3490, 3539 and 3594). 24. Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Information on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury in 2018, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (prints Nos 3459 and 3556). 25. Report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2018 (print No 3528) together with the position of the Committee on Public Finance (print No 3654). I ask Mr Andrzej Szlachta to submit a report to the committee on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 and a draft resolution on discharge.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Mr. President of the Supreme Chamber of Control! Dear guests! High Seym! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 together with a proposal for discharge to the Council of Ministers for that period. The state budget for 2018 has been the best budget of the state over the last several years, prepared by the finance minister Teresa Czerwińska under the direction of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It is a great satisfaction to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on this very well-designed and implemented budget, the beneficiaries of which were all Poles. This budget provided Poland with further economic development and, at the same time, by financing important social programmes, it met the expectations and needs of Poles. So it was inclusive, or universal, and its positive effects were felt by millions of Poles. Budgets 2018 and 2019 are budgets of conscience, budgets with a soul, sensitive to the needs of Poles. The economic distinction between the 2018 budget was the lowest state budget deficit in the history of several recent years, which decreased from 1,3%. GDP in 2017 to the lowest: 0,5% GDP in 2018 For the first time in history, the state budget has approached the level of the sustainable budget after the transformation. The government could achieve this objective, but in order to meet the important social objectives of the Act of 6 December 2018 amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, it provided an excess of funds for the additional expenditure set out in the Act. According to the EU methodology, the public finance deficit decreased from 1.5% GDP up to 0.4% GDP in 2018. Public debt calculated according to this methodology decreased from 50.6% GDP up to 48.9% GDP. It is worth mentioning that the sector's deficit in 2010 was 5.9% GDP and public debt amounted to 55% GDP. The general government deficit in 2010 amounted to more than PLN 111 billion and the general government deficit was about PLN 84 billion, compared to 10.4 billion in 2018. Currently, the sustainability of Polish public finances has been greatly improved and Poland meets the fiscal criteria of Economic and Monetary Union with a significant margin of security. The second important growth factor was GDP growth at constant prices. It reached 5.1% versus planned 3.8%. It was at the same time 3.1 percentage points higher than in the European Union, where it amounted to 2% at that time. It was also 1.5 percentage points higher than global GDP growth of 3.6%. In Poland in 2018 there was a very good economic situation on the domestic market. The main cause of this situation has been the achievement of almost zero unemployment in recent years. Although the registered unemployment rate remained at 5.8% , this unemployment measurement according to the BAEL survey shows its decline below 3.8%. This led to a significant acceleration of nominal wage growth, which amounted to 7% in 2018. The rapid increase in wages has led to an improvement in the social security system, reducing the need for funding from the state budget. According to analysts, we have not dealt in Poland in a decade with such a rapid increase in real wages. The rise in wages was largely accompanied by a clear increase in social benefits due to government policies. It should be stressed that the increase in Poles' income was mainly due to the increase in income from work and capital rather than to the increase in social benefits. The rapid increase in income resulted in an increase in individual consumption of 4.4%. which was accompanied by an even stronger increase in collective consumption. It should be stressed that the increase in consumption was accompanied by a very desirable acceleration in investment - an increase of almost 9% , partly due to an increased inflow of EU funds and thus to a sharp increase in the scale of public investment. The ratio of investments to gross domestic product increased to 18.2% and this is another step towards achieving the goal set out in the plan of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at 25% GDP. GDP growth was rapid in the absence of signs of imbalances. Despite high wage dynamics, inflation did not exceed 2%, which kept interest rates unchanged. Another positive feature of the 2018 budget is the high increase in revenue. The realised revenues amounted to PLN 380 billion and were higher than the budget law by more than PLN 24 billion, which is close to 7%. Compared to revenue in 2017, there was an increase of PLN 30 billion, i.e. 8.5%. The tax revenue was even higher than 2017 as it reached close to 11%. In particular, the effects of the measures taken by the National Tax Administration sealing the tax system and a better macro-economic situation than originally planned have been affected by the clear increase in tax revenues. At this point, I would like to thank the first head of the National Tax Administration, the current finance minister, Mr Marian Banasi, for the consistency and determination in the implementation of the new tax administration, whose effects are tangible. [[Applause]] Non-tax revenue representing 7,6% the total revenue exceeded the forecast set out in the Budget Act by nearly PLN 7 billion, i.e. 32%. In 2018, VAT revenues amounted to PLN 175 billion and were nearly 9 billion higher than the plan. Compared to 2017, VAT revenues increased by more than 11% , exactly 11.6%. The excise tax revenue amounted to more than 72 billion and amounted to 103% a plan from the budget law. Compared to 2017, excise income increased by 5.6%. In 2018, the planned revenues from the gaming tax were 16% higher than in 2017. The increase in these revenues should be linked to amendments to the Law of December 2016 on gambling. The income from personal income tax, i.e. from PIT, amounted to nearly PLN 60 billion in 2018, and was 7.3% higher than the plan and 13% higher than the year 2017. At the same time, income from corporate income tax, i.e. CIT, amounted to PLN 34.6 billion, which represents an increase of almost 7%. in relation to the plan and by 16.4% in relation to 2017 In 2018, it was possible to achieve a higher than assumed fossil tax revenue by nearly 31%. In 2018, expenditure planned in the amount of PLN 397.2 billion, expenditure realized, was nearly 15 billion higher than expenditure in 2017. The budget deficit for 2018 amounted to 10.4 billion and was lower than the plan by 31 billion PLN. This record low budget deficit has contributed to reducing public debt to 48.9% and to ensure the sustainability of public finances. According to GUS estimates, labour productivity in Poland measured by production sold for one employee was 3,1% in 2018 higher than a year ago. Preliminary data from the European Commission show that labour productivity in Poland has increased by 6.2% in 2018 by an hour, compared to 2017, while the European Union average has only increased by 0.7%. So Poland is still catching up on the highly developed economies of Western Europe. This Decision shall enter Poland received PLN 66.3 billion from the European Union budget, while the European Union's budget paid PLN 18.7 billion. This means that the Polish economy gained net funds of PLN 47.6 billion. Budget expenditure for European Union funds amounted to PLN 66.8 billion in 2018. These were expenditures higher by PLN 18.8 billion compared to 2017, i.e. by more than 39%. In 2018, a limit of 200 billion guarantees was set in the Budget Act, which was only used in 5.8%. which should be assessed positively. Net lending needs amounted to only 1.3 billion and were lower than planned by PLN 62 billion. The overall deficit had a major impact on the development of loan needs. The deficit of the state budget, as I mentioned, was only 10.4 billion, while the deficit of the budget of the European Union, instead of the planned amount of PLN 15.5 billion, amounted to PLN 3.5 billion. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Public Finance Commission considered the report on the implementation of the State budget in 2018 at meetings held from 27 June to 4 July inclusive. During the preparation of the report on the implementation of the State budget for 2018, the committee considered the budgetary parts of its remit, including those which were the subject of other committees, in accordance with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm. The other committees have submitted 25 opinions to the committee. All the opinions submitted were positive. During her meetings, the Committee on Public Finance took note of the opinions of other committees, the opinions of MEPs, kodeferents and the positions of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Members of the Committee on Public Finance have asked questions. There's been a long discussion. If the information and material submitted did not raise objections, the discussion did not always take place. During the meetings of the Committee on Public Finance, additional explanations were provided by representatives of various departments. Therefore, on 4 July the committee adopted the draft resolution proposed by the committee bureau following the vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Point I proposes that the High House adopt a report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 and, in point II, that discharge be given to the Council of Ministers for that period. On the other hand, in point III, the committee proposes to ask the authorising officers of the various budgetary parts to take action to address the irregularities identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u5	Thank you, sir. I ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2018 and an opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fulfilling the obligation under Article. 204 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I have the honour to present to the High House an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2018 together with the opinion of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2018. The Supreme Audit Chamber, after carrying out the audit in 267 units, positively assessed the implementation of the State budget for 2018. The Supreme Audit Chamber also stated that the Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 provides reliable information and data on the amount of revenue, expenditure, debts and liabilities and the result of the State budget in all material respects. [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Krzysztof Kwiatkowski illustrates his presentation displayed on the board]] The audit covered almost all the budget managers, the largest state-owned special-purpose funds, selected executive agencies and public legal entities and other bodies implementing public expenditure, including 96 grant beneficiaries. The detailed results of the audit were presented in separate information provided to the Marshal and to the Sejm committees in mid-June. Ladies and gentlemen, you have worked at the meetings of the Sejm committees, dealing with information on the implementation of budgets in the various ministries and central offices. Thus, in terms of post-control assessments in the information for 2018 positive assessments were clearly prevailing. Of the 141 post-control assessments, there were 116, or more than 80%. In addition, we have issued 22 descriptive assessments and 3 negative assessments. The descriptive assessments were formulated where irregularities were found, the scale and nature of which resulted in a reduction in the assessment. Compared to 2017, the number of positive assessments increased, there were fewer descriptive assessments and the number of negative assessments remained unchanged. In 2018, like last year, we negatively assessed the implementation of the plans of two state-owned special-purpose funds, the Fund - Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers and the Fund for Hurtful Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, so-called. The justice fund. The negative evaluation was also received by the Western Institute of Higher Education, which had not been audited a year before. Zygmunt Wojciechowski. The negative assessment in the case of the Fund - Central Vehicle and Driver Registration, CEPiK, was issued due to a non-intended order from the Central Information Technology Centre to perform the system stabilisation service and to conclude an unfavourable agreement to terminate the system construction contract. The justification for the negative assessment of the implementation of the financial plan of the Fund for Hurt Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance was the marginalisation of the basic objectives of the Fund and the allocation of a significant proportion of its revenue to activities not related to the victim. The NIK has also established that the Fund has regularly used a specific non-competition method for granting grants for tasks, which was contrary to the overriding principles of the Public Finance Act. At the Western Institute. Zygmunt Wojciechowski found significant irregularities involving incorrect determination and enforcement of charges for the rental of office premises and public spending, as well as violations of the provisions of the Public Procurement Law. We have prepared descriptive evaluations in 19 budgetary parts, as well as such assessments were presented in the case of the implementation of the financial plan of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the Polish Space Agency and the Agency for the Protection of Medical Technologies and Tarification. The opinion on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the State budget was formulated primarily on the basis of an examination of the accounts and budgetary statements. We checked the accounts with 20 directors, whose total expenditure amounted to almost 70%. expenditure of the State budget and of the budget of European funds. We gave a positive opinion on the correctness of the accounts in 16 directors, in 3 more we gave an opinion in descriptive form, and in the case of 1 editor of the ledger, the opinion was negative. We established in the area of accounts with this authorising officer, and this was the District Infrastructure Board in Zielona Góra, among others. irregularities related to the non-compliance of accounting policies with the amended provisions from January 2018 There were errors in general in those units in the eligibility and inclusion of claims on budgetary revenue or in the absence of certain mandatory elements from accounting records. In the case of a negative entity, none of the 202 audited accounting records contained a set of information required by the Accounting Act. We carried out an examination of the annual accounts with 276 directors, including 103 budget managers and 173 so-called directors. Third degree. We gave a positive opinion on the correctness of the reports in 93% of the contributors. The irregularities identified concerned in particular the recording of budgetary revenue claims, insufficient management control mechanisms that could not prevent irregularities. These irregularities were corrected during the audit or did not have a significant impact on the correctness of the data shown in the Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen! The state budget, the budget of the European funds and the financial plans of the non-budget units of the public finance sector have been implemented in accordance with the budget law. The total revenue of the State budget and of the European budget amounted to in 2018. PLN 443 400 million and were higher than the revenue generated in the previous year by PLN 45 400 million. The revenue of the state budget amounted to 380 billion in 2018 and was almost 30 billion higher than that of the previous year and more than 24 billion higher than the projected revenue. Another year in a row the share of tax revenues in the revenue of the state budget has increased. In 2018, it was almost 92%. The high performance of tax revenues consisted mainly of higher than projected revenue from taxes on goods and services and income taxes. This was influenced by both the favourable economic situation of the country as well as the implemented sealing solutions of the tax system. However, tax arrears remained at a high level. At the end of 2018, the tax arrears amounted to 101 billion, although their growth rate was lower than in previous years. The rate of implementation of past years has decreased and amounted to 4% , while in 2018 it amounted to 4.6%. Due to the ineffective execution, enforcement authorities discontinued enforcement proceedings in 2018 in relation to the backlog of about PLN 13 billion. As in 2017, there was a low ratio of the amount of tax arrears enforced to the overall amount of tax arrears. Non-tax revenues in 2018 amounted to PLN 28 900 million and were lower than in 2016. This was mainly due to the lack of payment of the profit of the National Bank of Poland. Non-tax revenues from other sources were higher or similar to those realised in 2017. European revenue in 2018 amounted to PLN 63 300 million and accounted for almost 98% the plan set out in the Budget Act, and compared with the implementation in 2017, were almost PLN 16 billion higher. As in previous years, their structure was dominated by revenues realised under national and regional operational programmes, the financial perspective and the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020. Ladies and gentlemen! NIK maintains its position already expressed in previous years on the purpose of amending the functioning revenue system of the European budget, in order to ensure that, in accordance with the principle of spot accounting of income operations, the funds that entered Poland were already included in the revenue of the European budget at the date of their impact. High Seym! The expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds amounted to a total of PLN 457 300 million and was PLN 33.5 billion higher than the expenditure incurred a year before. In the amount of PLN 5100 million, i.e. almost four times the previous year, were expenditure which did not expire after the end of the financial year in 2018. In 2018, as in previous years, the largest funds were allocated to compulsory social security, general subsidy for local government units, family, national defence, transport and communication and agriculture. State budget expenditure amounted to a total of PLN 390 500 million, or 98.3% the limit laid down in the Budget Act. The nearly 4-percent increase in state budget expenditure recorded in 2018 included all generic groups, with the exception of expenditure on the handling of the Treasury debt, as these were reduced by 0.5%. NIK audited the legality, economy, purposefulness and reliability of state budget expenditure for a total amount of PLN 95 400 million. Most of the expenditure examined was properly incurred. The irregularities found were presented in the information on the results of the State budget implementation control. European budget expenditure amounted to PLN 66 900 million, i.e. 96.4% the plan after the changes, and they were almost 19 billion higher than the expenditure incurred in 2017. By the end of 2018, the amount of European Union funding resulting from Cohesion Policy co-financing agreements reached PLN 233.5 billion and was almost 36% higher than a year ago. This amount was almost 71% allocation for the years 2014 to 2020 The sum of eligible expenditure shown in the statements and declarations of expenditure and applications for payment in part co-financed by the European Union submitted to the European Commission by the end of 2018 under the national and regional operational programmes amounted to PLN 82 800 million and accounted for 25% allocation for the years 2014 to 2020 This indicator was twice as high as a year ago. We note the different stages of the implementation of regional operational programmes. The lowest cultivation rate to the value of the allocation was achieved in the war. Pomeranian and Opole, and the lowest in the war. Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Podlaskie. Ladies and gentlemen! The balance of financial accounts between Poland and the European Union in 2018 amounted to PLN 11 300 million, and since 2004 it amounted to PLN 107 500 million. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2018, the government budget deficit amounted to PLN 10 400 million and the European budget amounted to PLN 3.5 billion. The total deficit of the state budget and the budget of European funds amounted to PLN 13 900 million and was lower by 43 billion than planned and lower by PLN 11 800 million than in the previous year. The government budget deficit was decided primarily by spending nearly 11 billion in December 2018 in connection with the implementation of the revised around budget law at the end of the year. The Act adopted a financing arrangement in 2018 for the tasks to be carried out in 2019 which, according to NIK, contradict the principle of annuality of the budget. The net lending needs of the state budget amounted to PLN 1300 million and were 62 billion lower than planned. Their amount was mainly due to more favourable economic conditions than those assumed at the drafting stage of the budget law, as well as to the use of part of the funds raised in the framework of the consolidation of gold and currency. Ladies and gentlemen! As in previous years, the addition to the Social Insurance Fund of the loss of contributions provided by the Social Insurance Institution to open pension funds was PLN 3300 million. It was classified as transfers of funds from the State budget rather than expenditure. However, taking into account the repeatedly notified recommendation of the NIK, the Law of 9 November 2018 on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 adopted a solution whereby in 2019 funds for this purpose will be transferred to the Social Insurance Fund in the form of grants. In the NIK's assessment, this will increase the transparency of public finances. It is also appropriate to recognise this solution as a permanent principle. With effect from 1 January 2018, loans granted to the Social Insurance Fund were decommitted from the State budget for the period 2014 to 2016, of which [[♪ The bell ♪]] the repayment deadline was 31 March 2019 in the total amount of PLN 7200 million. The sum of loans decommitted in 2017 and 2018 amounted to PLN 46 300 million. Ladies and gentlemen! Public debt, sovereign debt, government debt and government debt to gross domestic product developed below planned levels in 2018 and decreased in relation to the values of those indicators recorded in 2017. In 2018, the Treasury's debt increased by almost PLN 26 billion, which was affected in particular by the decrease in the value of the gold vis-à-vis the main currencies and the decisions of the Minister of Finance to accumulate higher funds in bank accounts at the end of 2018 than at the end of the previous year. The financial result of the public finance sector was better than in previous years. The report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 shows that in 2018 the revenue of the public finance sector amounted to PLN 864 900 million and expenditure - PLN 861 200 million. For the first time since 2007, a surplus of PLN 3700 million has occurred in the public finance sector. In 2018, as in previous years, according to NIK, the revenue and performance of the public finance sector was wrongly calculated. Revenue and result were overestimated by PLN 3300 million. The correctly calculated surplus of the public finance sector was PLN 400 million. The reason for demonstrating incorrect data was to include in the revenue of the public sector funds transferred from the State budget to the Social Insurance Fund for the compensation of contributions lost to open pension funds. General government result calculated according to Union methodology it was negative and amounted to PLN 8 billion, and in relation to GDP it was minus 0.4%. This was better than the average result in the European Union minus 0.6%. Ladies and gentlemen! And finally, the major irregularities. The irregularities identified by the NIK in the framework of the State budget implementation audit in 2018 have not changed significantly compared to previous years and, due to their scale, have not had a significant impact on the correctness of the collection and spending of public funds in general. These were mainly due to errors in accounting and reporting, ineffective management control, errors in public procurement, and incorrect transfer and use of grant funds. The NIK also directed the budget proposals in the Task Force, noting that it is not an effective tool for planning and implementing public expenditure. We have also pointed to the need to strengthen the supervision of the budgetary responsibilities of public spending. High Seym! After carrying out the audit at the National Bank of Poland, NIK positively assessed the implementation of monetary policy objectives. Average annual inflation in 2018 remained in the range of deviations from the inflation target and amounted to 1.6% , whereas in the previous year - 2%. Ladies and gentlemen! The NIK College, having read the entire analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy objectives in 2018, adopted a resolution in which it expressed a positive opinion on discharge to the Council of Ministers. The NIK College, taking into account the results of the review of the implementation of the State budget, pointed out the need to enforce tax arrears more effectively and prevent them from rising, to improve the methods of planning expenditure, including the appropriations included in the special provisions, and to continue to review expenditure and use its results when drawing up budgetary laws. Thank you for your attention. Of course, I will be available with my colleagues in the context of specific questions that may arise after committee meetings, which dealt in detail with reports in individual ministries and central offices. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister of Finance, Mr Marian Banaś, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before voting on discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2018 budget, I would like to thank you very warmly from this point of view for the work you have done during your parliamentary work, both at the stage of the procedure and the adoption of the 2018 budget law and now at the stage of the report on its implementation. First of all, I would like to stress that 2018 was definitely a good time for public finances. Effective measures in the area of tax sealing and the fight against fraud and tax fraud deliver the expected results. In 2018, we saw a significant increase in tax revenues from the state budget, which amounted to over PLN 34 billion a year, including over PLN 18 billion, which is an increase in revenue from the tax on goods and services, and this is undoubtedly, as the President said, the great merit of the National Tax Administration and the reform carried out. [[Applause]] Thanks to these actions, we have ensured the necessary security and sustainability of public finances. Both the general government deficit and debt decreased in 2018. Deficit of the sector was 0.4% GDP, which is the best result since Poland's accession to the European Union - well below the reference value for the nominal government deficit, which is 3% GDP. On the other hand, the debt of the sector decreased to 48.9%. GDP. At the same time, the 2018 budget was a budget which allowed for further implementation of the government's priorities for active and ambitious family and social policies. This was accompanied by positive changes in the economy, such as speeding up economic growth, improving investment dynamics, rising real wages and profits, i.e. social income, and falling unemployment. In 2018, GDP growth in Poland accelerated to 5.1% and was the highest since 2007. Poland was one of the fastest developing countries of the European Union and will remain at the forefront of the European Union in the years to come, especially against the background of the largest economies of countries such as Germany and France. [[Applause]] With regard to the state budget itself, it is worth noting that its deficit amounted to PLN 10.4 billion at the end of 2018. This was therefore the lowest budget deficit since 1998, which was 14.9 billion lower than in 2017. The 2018 budget is a budget that has served Poland well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u9	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to present a report on the information provided by the President of the Council of Ministers on the guarantees and guarantees given in 2018 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! The information on guarantees and guarantees provided by the State Treasury, some legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego presented by the Council of Ministers is part of the control of the state of public finances held by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. It has been drawn up since 1998. It is intended to implement the provisions of the Law of 8 May 1997 on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury and certain legal persons, specifically the provisions of the Article. 46. The Council of Ministers' information on guarantees and guarantees given in 2018 was presented and discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 27 June this year. According to the above. information, in 2018 six State Treasury guarantees were granted for a total amount of approx. PLN 11.6 billion. These guarantees were granted for liabilities incurred by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego to the burden of the National Road Fund in order to provide funds for the implementation of the Fund's tasks and for commitments incurred by PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA in order to co-finance the investment of railway infrastructure. The potential non-necessary liabilities of the State Treasury for the guarantees and guarantees granted amounted to about PLN 108,8 billion as at 31 December 2018 and decreased by 6.9% compared to 2017. Unrequired commitments are designed to secure, are set in the form of a guarantee limit and guarantees in the Budget Act. As regards 2018, it was set at PLN 200 billion. The main factor that affected the establishment of a limit on guarantees and guarantees for 2018 in the Budget Act was the possibility of using such a limit in the event of a possible deterioration of the conditions of operation of the Polish financial system, e.g. in the face of a possible financial and economic crisis, by supporting entities in the sector and, as regards certain institutions, using these guarantees to stabilise the institutions in the event of such a need. They are therefore preventive in nature. As there was no need to use the expected limit for this purpose in 2018, this situation should be assessed positively. I stress: in 2018 the Treasury did not spend funds to repay guaranteed and guaranteed liabilities. In 2018 Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the framework of the Entrepreneurship Support Programme gave around 40,000. guarantees and economic guarantees in portfolio mode for a total amount of approx. PLN 11.7 billion, including approx. 35 thousand. guarantees so called Guarantee lines PLD for the total amount of approx. 10,2 billion PLN. In the light of the information provided by the Council of Ministers of the Committee on Public Finance, it should be considered that the guarantees and guarantees provided by the Treasury and the Bank of National Farms under government programmes do not pose a risk to public finances, but at the same time constitute an important instrument for supporting economic processes, mainly in the field of road and rail infrastructure, as well as the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. After hearing the information and after the discussion, the Committee on Public Finance issued a favourable opinion on this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u11	Thank you, Member. I ask the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, to present a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As President of the National Bank of Poland and Chairman of the Monetary Policy Council, I have the honour to submit to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland a report on the implementation of monetary policy assumptions for 2018 and a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2018. During today's speech, I would like to focus on the most important actions taken by the National Bank of Poland in 2018. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! According to the Constitution, the National Bank of Poland is responsible for the value of Polish money. In addition, the NBP Act indicates that the primary objective of NBP's activities is to maintain a stable level of prices while supporting the government's economic policy, unless this limits the NBP's basic objective. The macroeconomic results of the Polish economy clearly indicate that the National Bank of Poland is exemplary in fulfilling its constitutional and statutory obligations. Inflation is in line with the NBP's inflation target and Poles have confidence in the gold. At the same time, growth is high and sustainable and the banking sector is functioning efficiently and stable. I would like to remind you that NBP is committed to maintaining price stability, using the so-called strategy. the inflation target. Since 2004, the NBP's inflation target has consistently been 2,5%. , plus 1 percentage point and inflation in Poland during this period was On average, only 2.0%. At the same time, economic growth has been rapid but sustainable in recent years. This points to the very high effectiveness of the inflation target strategy in ensuring long-term price stability while promoting sustainable economic growth. The Monetary Policy Council in 2018 maintained NBP interest rates unchanged, including a reference rate of 1,5%. Such an action allowed another year in a row to effectively implement the constitutional and statutory obligations of the NBP. This is demonstrated above all by the low inflation rate over the long term, which is the central bank's main indicator of effectiveness. In the last 3 years, i.e. during the period when I am privileged to be president of NBP, inflation has been on average 1.4%. It is now slightly higher, to which the price increase of some food products on the world markets and, as a result, also on the domestic market significantly contributes. However, inflation continues to be in line with the NBP's inflation target and inflation has been on average 1.8% since the beginning of this year. Importantly, monetary policy supports the maintenance of high but at the same time sustainable economic growth. Last year, GDP growth was 5.1% , and in the first quarter of this year. 4.7%. The Polish economy is therefore one of the fastest growing economies in the European Union. At the same time, there is no increase in macroeconomic imbalances in our country. Economic growth in Poland is based on both consumption and investment, with steadily growing exports. Growth in consumption supported by rising employment and low unemployment, as well as rising wages raises the standard of living of Poles and allows them to benefit from the fruits of economic development. At the same time, a significant increase in investment lays the foundations for stable production growth in the future. Finally, despite trade disputes and the decline in world trade, Polish exports continue to grow dynamically. Particularly important, monetary policy to maintain high and sustainable economic growth supports the opportunities to increase tax revenues from the public finance sector needed to finance public expenditure in a stable manner. In addition, the stabilisation of NBP's interest rates contributes to a decrease in the cost of handling foreign debt, to a decrease in the cost of handling public debt. In this way, NBP carries out its second statutory task, i.e. supports the economic policy of the government. Thanks to the Responsible and Conservative Monetary Policy of the NBP, we have ensured not only price stability but also a broadly understood macroeconomic balance. It is very important because it reduces the risk of crisis and rising unemployment and strengthens the resilience of the Polish economy to any potential external shocks. In this context, it is worth mentioning that lending has been increasing for several years at an appropriate pace, which on the one hand supports economic growth and, on the other hand, does not jeopardise the stability of the financial system. As a consequence, the non-financial debt of the credit sector in relation to GDP remains stable and our banking system is functioning effectively. Moreover, despite a very good domestic economy, the surplus in foreign trade remains and the total balance in the current and capital account is positive. As a result, foreign debt in relation to GDP is steadily decreasing. In such circumstances and in a situation of foreseeable monetary policy, the rate of gold despite the periodic strong fluctuations of certain currencies, especially from so-called. emerging markets, has been stable for a long time. Currently, the volatility of the golden course has remained at the lowest level for decades. This is a sign of high confidence in the gold not only from Poles, but also from foreign investors. The high credibility of the gold is one of the proofs of the effectiveness of the monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland, which is particularly welcome in this year, in which we celebrate the centenary of establishing the Polish gold as a national currency. The NBP's monetary policy was implemented in 2018 on the basis of a set of instruments established by the Monetary Policy Council for 2018. The conditions prevailing on domestic and foreign financial markets did not require NBP to apply other than the standard monetary policy instruments. The liquidity of the banking sector was absorbed by the central bank through open market operations. Monetary policy was conducted effectively and effectively, as evidenced by a slight deviation of the Polonia rate from the NBP reference rate. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! A stable financial system is a prerequisite for sustainable economic development and long-term price stability. The statutory task of NBP for the stability of the financial system includes eliminating and reducing systemic risk and shaping the conditions necessary for the development of the banking system. Financial stability in our country largely depends on the security of the banking sector, whose assets account for more than 70% assets of national financial institutions and which is the main national source of financing for the economy in Poland. As in previous years, debt levels and credit growth rates were moderate as well in 2018. They were not a source of imbalances in Poland's economy and financial system, nor were they a barrier to economic growth. The growth of loans to the non-financial sector in 2018 after taking into account the exchange rate changes was stable at 5.8% , only slightly lower than nominal GDP growth. Among the most important barriers to the development of the companies indicated in the cyclical NBP survey, there were no restrictions on access to bank financing. On the other hand, the dynamics of loans to households should be seen particularly in the context of the two-digit growth rate of housing loans in PLN and almost 90% of the dynamics of consumer loans. The banks used stable sources, mainly household deposits, to finance their lending. The trend in the quality of the credit portfolio did not differ significantly from those observed a year before. The Polish banking system was characterized by good capital equipment, adequate to the scale and nature of the business, as well as a relatively low level of leverage. During the period considered, the banks continued to increase their own funds, mainly from retained earnings. In the banking sector, the total capital ratio reached 18.3% at the end of 2018, compared to 18.0% at the end of 2017, with a minimum level of 8%. Most banks met the regulatory requirements, including the maintenance of additional capital buffers. The results of stress tests also indicate that, due to consistent accumulation of capital, banks in Poland remain relatively resistant to negative shocks. Even in the event of a very negative macroeconomic situation, only a small group of banks would suffer capital shortages compared to minimum regulatory capital requirements. However, the NBP identifies the following developments in the banking system or its surroundings, which require special attention. Firstly, the granting of new housing loans under conditions that have persisted for several years at low credit prices and high real estate market activity in recent quarters. This area requires observation in terms of risk of excessive expansion. At the same time, we estimate that the risk is limited due to the supervisory and relatively conservative policies taken in recent years by the banks themselves. Secondly, the low profitability of some banks and its long-term consequences. The profitability of Polish banks remains above the average in the banking sector throughout the European Union, but in recent years it has fallen significantly and remains below the estimated cost of raising capital on the market. In addition, it is worth noting that the technological changes observed require banks to continue their modernisation processes, for which more and more financial expenditure is needed. Thirdly, the development challenges of the cooperative banking sector. The cooperative banks sector as a whole is stable, albeit facing short- and long-term challenges. Cooperative banks mostly comply with supervisory capital and liquidity requirements. In some cooperative banks, however, the poor quality and high concentration of the credit portfolio are concerned with the relatively low level of credit coverage at risk of write-downs. The low efficiency of the business model and the low level of integration of the sector are, in turn, a challenge to their development in the medium term. Therefore, the NBP has long pointed out the need to increase the integration of cooperative banks, including institutional protection systems, and the need to strengthen association banks, inter alia. by improving the quality of risk management and increasing their capital equipment. In conclusion, according to NBP's assessment, both the Polish financial system and its economic environment remained balanced in 2018. This assessment was also shared by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank mission in a report on Poland published at the beginning of this year. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! In 2918. The NBP participated in the work of the Financial Stability Committee in two formulas: macro-prudential supervision and crisis management. In addition to the NBP, the Committee is represented by the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Bank Guarantee Fund. As President of the NBP, I chair the Financial Stability Committee in the macro-prudential formula, whose main task is to identify and reduce systemic risk. In 2018, six meetings of the Financial Stability Committee were held in this formula. A detailed description of the Committee's activities in 2018 was presented and provided to the State, namely: information on the activities of the Financial Stability Committee as a macro-prudential body. At the beginning of July, I handed this report over to the Marshal of the Sejm. The NBP also cooperated within the Financial Stability Committee in a crisis management formula chaired by the Minister of Finance. In 2018, 12 meetings of the Committee were held in this formula, during which the economic and financial situation of specific banks and measures to maintain stability in the financial system were discussed. As you know, in 2018 The NBP provided commercial banks with significant support in the form of refinancing loans of a total amount of PLN 5840 million, which allowed them to stabilise their liquidity situation while at the same time protecting the stability of the entire sector. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These loans were fully repaid in the first quarter of 2019. [[Applause]] In addition, in order to support the implementation of resolution programmes or recovery plan, the NBP exempted four banks from minimum reserve requirements in 2018. At the end of 2018, the official reserve assets of the National Bank of Poland amounted to EUR 102.3 billion. The priority in managing deficit reserves is, of course, to ensure a high level of security for the funds invested and their proper liquidity. Only after these conditions have been met will measures be taken to increase the profitability of reserves. However, in 2018, the rate of return on reserves calculated in PLN was 5.9%. This was due to the strengthening of most reserve currencies vis-à-vis the gold. On the other hand, the rate of return in the currency of the instruments alone was 1,1%. The NBP's strategic decisions in the area of deficit reserve management include an increase in the stock of gold by the NBP. In 2018 we purchased 25,7 t gold. As you know, in 2019 we bought another 100 tons of gold. [[Applause]] Currently, the NBP's gold stock is 228.6 t. These resources have almost doubled over Sweden's resources, compared with the Belgian ones and have come much closer to Austrian and Spanish. As a result of purchases made in 2018 and 2019, NBP moved in the ranking of central banks according to the size of gold resources from 34th to 22nd position in the world and from 15th place in Europe, ahead of all countries in the region. At the same time, the share of gold in Poland's foreign exchange reserves increased from around 4% at the end of 2017 to almost 10% , bringing the NBP closer in terms of the share of gold in foreign exchange reserves to the average in central banks around the world, but on average in European banks That's still 20%, so twice as much. The increase in Polish gold resources was, of course, possible thanks to the exceptionally good economic situation of the country and the strong increase in foreign exchange reserves. Over the last 5 years, Poland's foreign exchange reserves have increased by more than EUR 30 billion. This strengthens the financial security of Poland, strengthens the credibility and financial strength of our country, even in extremely unfavourable conditions. The purchased gold has been deposited in the Bank of England in the form of a London Good Delivery staff. The ability to store gold in the Bank of England, as you know, benefits most of the contractors active in the world gold market. This allows not only to store its resources safely, but also to increase their profitability. In 2018, the revenue from investments in gold amounted to 2.7 million euro, i.e. approximately 11.4 million PLN. However, I would like to stress that because of the strategic nature of gold and the market conditions, gold resources are not seen as an important source of income for central banks. In view of this, the Management Board of the NBP decided to diversify its storage sites and transfer almost half of the current gold stock, i.e. Approximately 100 t, to the NBP vaults. [[Applause]] This operation shall be carried out in accordance with a timetable to ensure its safety. We will provide you with information on its completion as soon as it is completed. The gold that will remain in London, i.e. Approximately 129 t, will be invested in the current way. [[Time's up.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Time, time.]] The NBP's financial result for the previous year was 0 PLN. The National Bank of Poland has not contributed to the state budget this year. The NBP's financial statements for 2018 received a positive opinion from the statutory auditor. [[Voice from the room: I'm looking for a place on the letters in the PiS.]] Information on other areas of operation of the National Bank of Poland is provided in the report on the activities of the NBP. I'm not gonna stall my speech. I would say, perhaps, that when I present this report to the High House, I could not remind you that we are celebrating this year the century of Polish gold, which is the foundation of the economic strength of our country. The NBP's activities, including its monetary policy, ensure the stability of Polish money and at the same time promote sustainable economic growth and stability of the financial system, thus creating safe management conditions for millions of Poles and Poles. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! The President informed us that he had to leave the Sejm because of his other duties. [[When are the questions for the president?]] On the other hand, he will be happy to answer questions in writing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the room: Well, what's this...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a debate.]] [[This is the end of parliamentarianism in Poland.]] I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee. [[But Mr. Chairman left us at all, the whole Sejm.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Please express yourself in the Seym.]] Well, Madame, that is the decision of the President, not mine. Now calm down and let Mr Szewczak present his position to the committee. [[A voice from the courtroom: But the marshal should at least comment on it, at least that's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u14	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Ministers, After Mr. Nobleman's speech... [[He ignores you too, and so do you.]] Please, ladies, you are always disturbing us at the meetings of the finance committee, respect this speech at least here. [[Don't ask too much.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After hearing the speeches of Mr Marshal, Mr President of the Noble, Minister Banasi and Mr Glapiński, it can be said that the situation is so decent and stable that it is boring. To be honest, I am wondering how opposition representatives will try to criticize the purchase of 125 t of gold in two years or the increase in foreign exchange reserves by EUR 30 billion, let alone 0.5%. the budget deficit. It will undoubtedly be necessary to rise to the heights in order to completely criticize it. [[Okay, okay.]] I ask you to return to NBP's activities and monetary policy, it must be said that both monetary policy and macro-prudential supervision, operational activities, issue activity, Treasury service... It is also worth to inform that as much as 22 thousand. bills for 3,000. public entities run the NBP, so this is indeed a significant result. These activities were carried out in a professional, orderly and stable manner. It can be said that both such macro-economic indicators and such results of NBP activities, our predecessors could simply dream of. So it seems that the situation is fully under control. What we are talking about today in our ordinary Poles' talks is a matter of speeding up prices, rising inflation to inflation levels, i.e. in those 2.6%. Statistics and EU methodology say it is 2.4% That's even less. I want to assure you and reassure you that these significant increases in vegetable and fruit prices, however... Whatever it is to say, the rise in the price of parsley, chives or cabbage will not, however, threaten the state's budget policy or monetary policy pursued by the National Bank of Poland, although this is clearly a phenomenon in most European countries. Prices are also rising with our neighbours. An important factor contributing to price increases in Poland is simply more money in the market and more money in Polish wallets. That's what's affecting prices. Poles are willing to spend money, driving the economy and consumption. Public consumption dynamics increased by 6% and gross expenditure dynamics increased by as much as 12% in the first quarter of this year. So these are just some natural phenomena. I am no longer talking about climate change and anomalies - there was drought and floods. The Chinese now eat more pork and like chocolate. All this affects the rise in inflationary behaviour. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] I'm sure there's nothing dangerous about it. I'm sure the Japanese parliamentarians would be happy to switch with us for inflation, because for many years they've been trying to stimulate this inflation in their country, and they've had deflation. The rule is that this small inflationary growth occurs in economies that are rapidly developing, and that is the result of this development, and we are really growing fast. [[It's even a shame...]] If this year's results from the first half of the year are around the fourth or fifth place in the world, when it comes to GDP growth - not even in Europe, but in the world - after powers such as China, India or Indonesia, it is not possible to talk about a country in a state of collapse, insanely expensive, poor, poor, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, what is worth emphasising in the report on NBP's activities is a certain ability, the ability to reconcile the fact that not only the foreign exchange reserves have increased, but also - as regards the state reserves, the Central Bank reserves - a measurable increase has also occurred in PLN - that is PLN 46 billion compared to 2017. On the other hand, we managed to buy 25 tons of gold last year, and gold is not free yet. It seems that such action should continue. Poland finally acquires gold. Not much, I believe that the decision by NBP and the President of Glapiński to bring to Poland some of this gold is fundamental and historical. Generations of Poles were waiting for the gold to finally return here, and not only was it exported from here. This year we have in perspective the purchase of gold by NBP on an even larger scale. It's about 100 t. This is the right direction, because the price of gold has recently increased significantly and you need to be aware that other countries have it much more. That's 20%. shares in... [[Is that a report or an answer... a minister?]] Listen carefully, because your budgetary achievements from that time and your representatives were unfortunately not so optimistic. [[But, sir, you are the rapporteur.]] Mr. Marshal, please pay attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u15	I ask Members of the PO-KO Club to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that all I'm saying hurts, but that's just reality. These results clearly show that there is both budgetary policy and much more professional management of public finances, as both the Minister and the President of the Nobleman have said. It seems that not only last year's activity of the National Bank of Poland should be assessed positively, but also the prospects for the year are good. It seems that, as the NBP President said, neither the Polish economy nor the Polish finances are at risk of any potential shocks. Perhaps a major problem that may arise is the problem of the Court of Justice's decision on the so-called '. Franc loans. If it turned out that there would be decisions very, I would say, beneficial for so-called. Frankowiczów, this will of course create some problem with solving this issue, because, however, let us remind you, the National Bank of Poland granted liquidity loans to two banks last year. These loans were repaid, as we were already informed at the meeting of the Public Finance Committee. This is, however, a challenge. We'll see, of course, what this decision is going to be. There will probably be a question of building an issue for the National Bank of Poland, because if we want to continue this policy, we want to import gold to Poland, it seems that it should be properly stored. And our predecessors can be reminded that once before, one of the presidents of the National Bank of Poland, Professor Leszek Balcerowicz, undertook the idea of building the issue vault, only that the... [[Mr. Marshal, it wasn't an object.]] ...missary, 30 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u17	Sorry, sir, one second. [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] I'd like us to separate the committee's report from the speeches on behalf of the clubs, okay? [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But the Member speaks very interestingly and needs to be listened to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u18	But, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, these issues that we are talking about were discussed at yesterday's meeting, and you presented them to the Vice President of the National Bank of Poland. There's nothing new here. I understand that you may not like this, but this, ladies and gentlemen, is a repetition to a large extent... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a report.]] ...what was at the meeting, mostly the issues that were there. So I really do not understand your impatience, all the more so because we will be listening to your opinion on this matter in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen! It can be said that both the issue policy and the foreign exchange reserve policy have been conducted, I repeat, in a professional manner, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Article. 227, with the provisions of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, from art. 3 in particular. This is what President Glapiński stressed, saying that this policy is being implemented in a real way, which is not only intended to maintain the stability and value of Polish money, but also to support economic development or support the economic policy of the government. That's not what happened. for many years of activity of the National Bank of Poland. It seems to me that this cooperation in this area, the achievement of economic objectives by both the government and the National Bank of Poland, is very well conducted. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the meeting of the committee, it seems that it and the report of the representative of the National Bank of Poland were adopted well. We were fully aware that we would continue this discussion here in the plenary room. It therefore appears that the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland for 2018 can be considered reliable, professional and well-sighted for 2019. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And another.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u19	Thank you very much, sir. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 26 hours 10 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 23, 24 and 25 of the agenda. The Sejm established in a joint discussion on these items the division of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 55 minutes and 4 minutes, i.e. short-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u20	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, Mr. President! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the position on the Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. The state budget for 2018 was a financial model of the prudent and responsible strategy of the leader of our group of President Jarosław Kaczyński, and through operational decisions of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and members of the government concerning individual budget sections became an inclusive, universal budget aimed at the needs of Poland and Poles, all Poles. The budget includes the main objectives of the government: economic and civilization development of Poland, security of the country and its inhabitants, sustainability of public finances and reduced government deficits, meeting the needs of all citizens of the Republic of Poland. It was assumed that the state budget was intended to serve all Poles, not elites or elected groups. The 2018 budget was a record budget in many respects. It had a record growth rate of individual revenues, had a high increase in expenditure compared to 2017. Budgetary expenditure was closer to the record limit of PLN 400 billion. The 2018 budget had a record low budget deficit of just PLN 10.4 billion, which, compared to the gross domestic product, gave the lowest percentage rate since 1998 of only 0.5%. GDP. Gross domestic product, i.e. the measure of state wealth, exceeded the limit of 2 trillion in 2018 and amounted to exactly PLN 2116 billion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Very good budgetary parameters for 2018 are the result of budgetary discipline, economic prosperity and favourable labour market conditions in terms of both employment and wage levels, which have positively affected budgetary revenue. The rise in tax revenues is in addition to the good macroeconomic situation also due to the introduction of a number of measures sealing the tax system and the implementation of new data analysis solutions. These activities mainly concerned the area of VAT, where the losses of the state budget for fraud and tax avoidance have been significantly reduced, which, unfortunately, the previous governments have failed to cope with. The effects of sealing and limiting aggressive tax optimization are also visible. In 2018, the government rationalised public expenditure and natural savings, resulting in a part-use of planned expenditure in the 2018 Budget Act. The expenditure savings generated during the financial year allowed the budget to be redirected to other important tasks of the State as defined in the revised Around Budget Act in December 2018. In terms of European funds, expenditure amounted to PLN 66,9 billion with revenues of PLN 63,4 billion. The highest budget headings measured by the total expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds were: firstly, the various accounts of PLN 98.4 billion covering mainly the general subsidy for local government units, the settlement with the general budget of the European Union and support for regional development; secondly, compulsory social security of the amount of PLN 76.8 billion; thirdly, the family - an amount of nearly PLN 40 billion, including the programme of the 500+ family; fourthly, the national defence - an amount of PLN 34.6 billion for reconstruction and technical modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, fifthly, transport and communication - an amount of PLN 30 billion for major expenditure on road projects and railway projects; sixthly, agriculture and hunting - an amount of nearly PLN 30 billion covers the main expenditure of the common agricultural policy; seventhly, public security and fire protection - nearly PLN 17 billion are funds for the operation of the Police, the Border Guard, the State Security Service, the State Fire Guard and other services. Detailed expenditure of the most important parts of the state budget for 2018 will be discussed by subsequent Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. As chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, I would like to point out that, for the first time in many years, no formal requests have been made by the committee or by Members for a negative opinion of the report on the implementation of the budget in its entirety or in its chosen aspects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u21	Thank you. And please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u22	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I have good news for the High House: this is the last debate on the report on the implementation of the budget in this term of office, which means that the time for the PiS governments is coming to an end. [[Applause]] [[That doesn't mean anything.]] This is very good news for Poles and Poles... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Two in logic.]] ...and a good excuse to say, sum up four years of the PiS government, four years of public finance management by the PiS. It is the management of public finances, i.e. common money of all Poles. If we wanted to summarize in one sentence how you managed public finances, we would say that the PiS manages citizens' money recklessly, inefficiently and dishonestly. [[Wow...]] I accuse the PiS government of seven serious omissions, and I'm about to tell you what the seven major sins in the management of public finances you've committed over the last four years are. The first is the imposition on citizens of 40 higher or quite new taxes and quasi-taxes. You introduced taxes: banking, insurance, trade, gallery, solidarity, fees: transitional, power, issue, water, quality, extra for technical research on time, bottom, recycling and many, many others. And note, because not everyone understands this: PiS raised VAT by 1 percentage point. In 2017, according to the Act adopted by the previous Sejm, the basic rate of VAT was 22%, you raised it to 23%. The only thing you've reduced so far is that you've reduced the tax-free amount to zero for some taxpayers. [[Applause]] [[We also lowered the Platform polls.]] [[Please also mention a reduction in PIT.]] It's supposed to be not the last word of the PiS when it comes to raising taxes because they're announcing bull tax. You don't have kids - pay up. It is indeed very merciful and just at a time when thousands of couples they cannot have children, and not only do you not fund in vitro, but you also tell people that this is a sin, and you stigmatize children born in this way. Your second sin is the debt of Poland. I'm accusing you of indebting your country to a great economic situation. 14 countries of the European Union have a surplus, and we still have a deficit. [[Voice from the room: After whom?]] Financial pillow - do you understand what that means? You had a duty to do it in fat years to prepare Poland for lean years, which always Someday they'll come. [[What about children and families?]] Mr. Speaker! This is the sacred rule of every responsible government. This is true patriotism and truly responsible politics. [[It's either people or indicators.]] [[Voice from the room: You will not tell us.]] [[It's time for people, not indicators.]] I accuse you of incapacity, that is your third main sin. Because despite 40 new taxes, despite the continuing deficit, despite years in the economy, extreme poverty in Poland has increased. In 2018 over 5.5% compared to 2017 Polish citizens live in extreme poverty. Despite the social program you've been bragging about. Because PiS thinks that the welfare of Poles can be built with social assistance. Oh, no, you can't. It's work that's the basis for prosperity. [[Applause]] The fourth sin, very serious, you sentenced Poles and Poles to starvation pensions. And I'm not even talking about reducing the retirement age. I'm talking about the fact that you haven't done anything to encourage people to stay on the labour market on a voluntary basis. How are these people gonna live in 10 or 20 years of their starvation pensions you've condemned them to? [[Applause]] And finally the fifth sin, very serious, like all the others. I accuse you of dishonesty. You are deceiving public opinion, also today many times from this lecturer, that this 100 billion more tax revenue compared to 2015 comes from the sealing of the tax system, from catching some VAT mafia. You know that's a lie. [[Applause]] 50 billion PLN this is the economic effect, economic growth, every economist will tell you that. 15 billion PLN is the result of new taxes. Another 15 billion are Poles' drained pockets by inflation, i.e. expensive. Only 20 billion of these 100 billion, or 1/5, is the sealing effect. By what? Thanks to the uniform control file introduced by the Civic Platform. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie to reality.]] And finally, the sixth sin, the sin of incompetence. If you're not ashamed, Minister Banas, talk about some investment dynamics. When we gave you Poland, the investments amounted to 20% GDP. They've been bent down to 17%. Right after you took over. Thanks to local governments today they have slightly bounced back to 18%. What you're saying is 18%. This is the 25% promised by Prime Minister Morawiecki? [[Applause]] Investment collapse This is your sixth main sin. [[There's growth.]] Mr. Speaker! Blame. Accommodation+. It was supposed to be 100,000. The apartments, they don't even have $1,000. You haven't given up a mile of the freeway in the last two years. The ones you gave up in the first period, in the first year and a half, was the finalization of our projects. What kind of investments do you want to show off? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] Finally, the last, seventh, principal sin. By training Poles' pockets with new taxes and indebting Poland, you have simultaneously turned health protection, education, Polish army into ruins... [[What?]] ...the areas of public life which the state is guilty of giving to its citizens to feel safe and courageously looking to the future. [[Decommissioned by Platform and PSL.]] Meanwhile, today in Poland Anna Domini 2019 teenagers will learn in 36-person classes for three shifts, and the resident of Szczecin is happy to find his medicine in Rzeszów. That's the fate you've given the Poles. These four years of great global prosperity have been wasted because public services, which is what each Pole deserves, have led to collapse. [[Applause]] 6% GDP on health with the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki from 1.5 years ago. You know, when you want to give 6% ? In 2050, check this out, ask the finance minister who planned this in the state's multiannual financial plan. This is also one of the evidences that you are characterized by recklessness, inability and dishonesty in the management of public finances. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u23	Thank you. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the very short, limited speaking time, I will limit myself only to certain elements of the issues under consideration. The main parameters characterizing the state budget in 2018 are the revenue of the state budget and European funds - 443 billion, spending - 457 billion. The deficit for the state budget and European funds amounted to PLN 13.9 billion. Growth - 5.1% , unemployment rate - 5.8% , inflation - 1.6%, Economic growth, i.e. GDP in Poland, was higher by 5.1% in 2018 compared to the previous year. Unfortunately, this economic growth in our country is mainly based on dynamically growing private consumption. This consumption contributed to GDP growth by 2.6 percentage points. The impact of investments on GDP is only 1.5 percentage points. Against the background of other Central European countries, the pace of investment growth in Poland was, can be determined, moderate. It was 8.7%. , when Latvia and Hungary exceeded 16% , and in the Czech Republic and Slovenia - 10%. Sectorally, investment was the fastest growing not in the business sector but in the public sector. This investment carried out by local authorities contributes significantly to the increase in the investment index. The balance of foreign trade has had a negative impact on economic growth by reducing it by 0.2 percentage points, so I do not know what export dynamics we are talking about here. As in previous years in 2018, current appropriations were dominant in budget expenditure. In comparison to 2017, they were 3.5% higher. On the other hand, property expenditure accounted for 7.2% expenditure and only amounted to approx. 28 billion PLN, including national defence, for investments in national defence - almost 13 billion, 48%, transport and communications - 7 billion, health protection - just over 1 billion. These are the biggest items of property expenditure. Institutionally according to the budget part, the highest increase in expenditure occurred in the National Radio and Television Council and amounted to 150% , almost 160% compared to last year, at the Institute of National Remembrance - 122,4% and, of course, the Chancellery of the Prime Minister - 168.2%. In the structure of state budget expenditure and European funds, agricultural expenditure is decreasing. In 2015 it was 8.1% , in 2018 - 6.5%. Higher education expenditure in 2015 was 4.1% , in 2018 - 3,6%. Spending on science fell from 1.9% up to 1.8% in 2018 In the Supreme Audit Chamber report, we read of numerous irregularities concerning the management of public pennies in many resorts. The NIK presents the situation in a descriptive manner without giving a positive assessment of the implementation of the budget and giving three negative assessments. In many cases there is a nonchalance in the spending of funds, and in others excessive, even unjustified savings. For example, the rehabilitation fund for disabled people saves over 71 million PLN and costs in all funds related to the social tasks of the State are only achieved in 93%, i.e. almost PLN 5 billion less than planned, and we remember with what contempt the government treated people with disabilities protesting in the Polish Sejm for 40 days. It is about this picture of disabled people on the floor be able to open windows and go outside, to air, to reduce the use of sanitary facilities and to indifferently move government members alongside them. This picture will remain a nightmare for life, not only for the protesters, but for all those who understand, which means disability. [[Applause]] Other funds, such as the Public Benefit Fund or the Civil Society Development Fund, did not exist at all on the expenditure side. So the question is, why were they created? The Justice Fund created for victims of accidents carried out tasks completely different from that for which it was created, including conferences far from the subject of the fund, and banquets and catering cost Poles PLN 0.5 million. The issue of public debt and the sovereign debt is unfavorable. It would seem that, in economic times, government budget managers would think a little bit about saving up for worse times. Unfortunately, that's not the way the PiS government thinks. The Treasury debt amounted to PLN 954 billion at the end of 2018, which means an increase of 25.8 billion per year. The narration of PiS politicians that we have money in the budget is not true. In times of economic development, we owe our country immensely. Over the three years of the PiS government, government debt has increased by PLN 110 billion, which means that debt has increased by PLN 3 billion each month. In conclusion, economic growth is based on consumption, with very low investment in business and negative balance sheet in foreign trade, the successive debt of Poles, in the last 3 years, I will remind you, debt grows every month by 3 billion PLN, non-chalance spending money for unjustified purposes, illegal, rewards for government members, because they were owed this money, and salaries in the National Bank of Poland without rational motivation, neglecting obligations towards disabled people and older people, pensioners and pensioners, granting the benefit by the government is possible, but only just before the elections. And that's what you call the rule of law. There was a recession in health care, education and agriculture. Poles are poisoned by wrong energy and environmental policies based on Russian coal, blockade and recession in RES, there is no intensive research and innovation in the alternative use of Polish coal resources. The policy of the PiS government is short-sighted: tonight, just to win the election, because our Misiewicz is enough for everything, because they deserve it. High Izbo! Let us add the lies that law and justice politicians are willing to use, and then these lies are laced in public media. My club, club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, negatively evaluates the management of public funds [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the Government of Law and Justice. We must tell Poles, we must realise that we are living on credit, at the expense of future generations, that it is our children and grandchildren who will pay off these commitments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u25	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Richard Petru, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a good time to summarize four years of PiS economic policy. Four economic years are best presented using numbers, but not those that are selectively presented by government television, but those that talk about the real state of the economy, those that talk about threats, and those that compare the state of the Polish economy with what is happening in Europe. Let's start with inflation. Year 2015 - inflation at -0.9 . Last reading of inflation in July 2019 - 2.6 . If it were not for a one-off, artificially stopping the increase in energy prices by PLN 9 billion, the inflation rate would be well above 3%. Ladies and gentlemen, he's going to exceed this level of 3%. Next year. NBP says it won't raise interest rates. But the financial market, when it sees inflation above 3%, will expect an increase in rates. [[Applause]] As a result, WIBOR will increase and as WIBOR increases, credit costs will increase and this will affect all those who have loans in zlotys, both on individuals and on companies. This is a threat. It's for next year. We've been invested. In 2015, private investment amounted to 11% GDP fell to 9 in 2018. It's a very large inheritance. Public debt. Many times I have warned, and I continue to warn, the increase in debt under the PiS government is one of the largest in Europe. In your government, the increase in debt amounted to PLN 128 billion. As we add to this the five Kaczyńskis passed, in your governments public debt will increase by PLN 168 billion. Poles have better VAT collection, but let me remind you that 34 new taxes have been introduced. All those who pay for gasoline today, for bread, for butter, for electricity, pay much more than in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the structure of economic growth over the past few years is a typical growth, an example of overeating. The Polish economy has been driven mainly by consumption over the last 3 years, an average increase of 13% rather than investments that only grew by 5.6. Such a growth model has no prospects for the future. A country that eats, instead of investing, collapses rather than develops. You can't eat your height for years and fly on just one engine. The paradigm of the government's economic policy has changed completely for four years. From the free market economy created in the early 1990s, PiS Poland became a socialist state, with a growing share of the state and significant redistribution. In your governments, the role of the state has been brought into the role of collecting taxes on people active in favour of 500+ and other social programmes. Look at the numbers. In 2015, social policy for families was 1.8% GDP. By the end of 2019 it will be 4% GDP. This great social redistribution takes place at the expense of important development needs of the Polish society: education, health, science, not to mention entrepreneurship. Education expenditure increased by 4.3 in 2015 and health care by 6.5 in 2015 and social policy tripled. At the same time, entrepreneurs were granted an increase in the ZUS contribution from PLN 1095 to PLN 1440. Poland boasts of the deficit reduction that this government received from its predecessors. But note that in the 13 countries of the European Union, this time has been spent on a budget surplus for worse times. [[Rich?]] In countries where there was growth. We had a higher height. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I can say this: there has been a complete change in the economic model of the country from free market to transfer model, a model in which benefits are promoted rather than a job in which a woman does not work, where there are low pensions. Your report should therefore be negative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u27	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I was honored to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice report for 2018 on the implementation of the state budget in the very important field of life of Poles, which is health protection. 2018 was the first year of implementation of the law setting minimum health expenditure at 6% GDP. The adoption of such a serious commitment by the current Government of Law and Justice and the United Right is a manifestation of concern, a desire to radically improve the functioning of health protection - an area so neglected for many, many years. Improving the availability of health services, improving the quality of health services, supplying medical professionals with modern equipment, raising pay in health services, halting the flow of educated medical personnel abroad, increasing the scope of medical training, free medicines for older people - these and other issues have been the priorities of the current government. I am pleased to announce the faithful implementation of the budget with such assumptions in 2018. The analysis of expenditure and budget revenue in part: Health allows us to communicate to the High House and to the Polish public that these priorities are consistently implemented. In 2018 the amount of PLN 95 billion was allocated to health care, in fact PLN 93.6 billion was used. This was another dynamic increase in health expenditure incurred over 3 years, which meant that the threshold required by the above mentioned law, i.e. 6% GDP in 2024 was not only achieved but even exceeded by more than PLN 5 billion. This threshold was 4.9% GDP in terms of health expenditure and we have already reached 5% GDP. 93.6 billion PLN this is, I ask you, more by nearly 20 billion PLN than in 2016 or 2015. [[It's worse.]] For the previous government expenditure amounted to PLN 73 billion, i.e. PLN 20 billion a year more. So what kind of health expenses are you talking about? [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] The expenditure of the Minister of Health without the National Health Fund amounted to PLN 8.4 billion, which also means an increase of 13% compared to 2017, i.e. almost PLN 1 billion, and 2017 was also characterised by an increase compared to 2016. The Minister of Health, in addition to the grant of PLN 1.8 billion for the NFZ, allocated PLN 541 million for the provision of highly specialised services and 640 million for the provision of benefits for people not covered by compulsory health insurance. About PLN 680 million were allocated to the reimbursement of medicines for people over 75 years of age, i.e. by PLN 187 million more than a year earlier, which allowed to extend from 1 May 2018 the range of medicines with new, additional medicines, intended for the treatment of asthma, thyroid, pancreas, anticoagulants, antibiotics, parenteral medicines, painkillers and others. The list of these medicines refunded contains more than 2 000. position. The amount of PLN 1.8 billion has been allocated to teaching and material aid for students from the budget of the Minister of Health. This allowed for an increase in admission limits for medical studies. The number of students in medical, dental and nursing studies increased by 10% compared to 2015. In this case, for many years, you have done nothing at all. The year 2018 was a record year in terms of the most complicated heart transplants, which took place 147. 43 lung transplants were also performed. Internships and medical specializations were allocated about 30% more money than in 2017 and amounted to PLN 1.25 billion. The health ministry's efforts to improve the human resources situation lead to financial incentives for those taking up nursing studies because we have a large deficit in this profession. These incentives consist, among others. the introduction of scholarships of PLN 800, paid monthly during the last and even the penultimate year of study, as well as for 2 years in the post-graduate field. These are the non-standard actions of the current government in this area showing high activity, courage and determination in the fight to improve the health situation. The increase in health funds has allowed the financing of additional multiannual programmes. In 2018 seven investment programmes were implemented for the amount of PLN 480 million. This allows you to develop modern infrastructure in the health system. Of course, High Izbo, we are realistic and we are aware that many problems remain unresolved. Despite the enormous financial and organisational effort of the Ministry and the National Health Fund management, many problems remain unsolved. It belongs to them, among others. Major increases in commitments, including those required, in bodies subject to the health minister, mainly in institutes, as well as in medical universities. The problem remains the debt of hospitals, although the current government has already allocated several hundred million zlotys to pay for overpayments to hospitals that have not received such payment from the previous government, namely our predecessors. Nevertheless, the situation of many county hospitals is very difficult. A change in the system of pay still requires work and great commitment. For example, it is about introducing a logical proportion in the remuneration structure of different professional groups in these medical professions. Both the Health Commission and the Public Finance Commission, taking into account the positive assessment of the NIK's part of the implementation of the budget, also issue a positive opinion on part 46 related to health protection. Of course, this performance deserves a good assessment. At this point, I would like to thank the Head of the Ministry of Health, the Minister, the Deputy Ministers, and the Head of the National Health Fund for their hard work, for their enormous effort, for their dialogue, which is often difficult, mainly in terms of salaries, for which we have enormous negligence from many years ago, with different environments, for a concerted attitude that does not cause conflict, but leads to a solution to problems and to an agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u29	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u30	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good thing that I am going after your Member, because I will also talk about health. I'm gonna show this reality what it looks like. After 4 years, during which the government assured that health was a priority, there comes a moment of saying: I'm checking. The debate on this budget is precisely this moment. From the state budget it seems to be on health 2,7% , and for the service of public debt - 7.6%. [[Applause]] We are on the tail of the European Union with regard to the health budget. What does reality look like? The queues, the lack of access to specialists - I think you will agree, ladies and gentlemen - the mortality of the SOR, which has suddenly appeared, and lately even the lack of medication, for many weeks. That's the health saving effect. First of all, you have deceived young doctors who have negotiated an increase in funding of up to 6%. GDP. The methodology adopted resulted in a loss of 8 billion in health only in 2018. For four years it will be a loss of 34 billion. And that money just belonged to the patients. [[Applause]] Second document: State drug policy. Even though it's guaranteed finance for drug-refundable drugs, it's only 15.2%. That's 1150 million less for drugs refunded. That's why there are no drugs: [[Applause]] neither the original nor the cheaper ones for which the patient stands at the pharmacy every day and which he buys for his chronic diseases. Transplantology. The number of transplants has dropped. What about budget implementation? 76%. NIK report. A clear position on small funding for health care and the lack of funding for prevention, which translates into an increase in morbidity and treatment costs. Air Force Medical. Budget implementation? 21%. Cancer eradication programme. This banner, this constant story about oncology being the most important thing. Less funding and cut funding for prevention. [[Applause]] What are the consequences? The waiting time in queues to the osteoporosis clinic increased by 28 weeks. Neurosurgery clinic - waiting time extended by 16 weeks. These are, of course, just examples. As regards the availability of magnetic resonance imaging in emergency mode, this extended three times in 2018. Health indicators have deteriorated. Life expectancy has been reduced - the worst indicator since 1991. There are no 500 medications, including modern ones and those that patients take every day. The image complements the appearance of county hospitals: collapse, commitments that grow avalanche and are related to salaries, without additional funding. This is reality. [[Applause]] This is health: catastrophic, underfunded and forgotten. [[Applause]] [[It was great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u31	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The 2018 budget will certainly go back to history as a document which bears witness to the reform of the state, the restoration of the dignity of many citizens. I am glad that this happened in 2018, because like the President of the National Bank of Poland, he reminded us that we will have the anniversary of the century of the introduction of the gold into monetary circulation, so 2018 was the year of the century of regaining independence. After 11 November we entered the second century of the reborn Polish state, whose history is more than 1000 years old, and we do not forget this, celebrating these excellent anniversaries. But he has brought much certainty to our citizens when it comes to dignified, prosperous lives. They believed in the power of the state, in the fact that the well-managed state increases the material resources and capabilities of the Polish family, the Polish citizen. We've restored our faith in the state. Thank you for this to all those who participated in this reform, in the reform of public finances. We know what it's made of, we know all this data. They're impressive. GDP growth by 5.1% Although the international situation pointed to the economic downturn in the world, despite the turbulence in trade between the United States and China, the turbulence in the Argentine market, the turbulence in the Turkish market, the problems of the automotive economy in our neighbour Germany, we have consistently reduced unemployment from 9,4 levels that we received after the government of PO-PSL to 5,8 levels. We did this under stable conditions of valuation of the Polish currency to other currencies, including the euro, with low relative inflation, in the vicinity of the inflation target, and at all times of good monetary policy, which gave entrepreneurs a chance to design, plan their investments. The rate of fixed capital expenditure was 8.7% and consumption expenditure increased by 5.5%. And unemployment fell in an impressive way, and we led to it after 30 years that it fell... the painful effect of the market economy affected less than 1 million of our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts. It is difficult to argue with these facts. Especially since the Government of Law and Justice has entered into correspondence with multi-million citizens, professionally located, professionally and socially. I'm not going to mention it, but if we were going to do it, we'd see that these are really multi-million-dollar groups of citizens. And if we look at these new programmes that we are doing this year, we will see that this courage of correspondence, of giving benefits to groups of citizens, which are numerous, is that there is no reference to what has happened in history. For example, a tax reduction in PIT says that this is a benefit for 25 million citizens. [[It hasn't been here yet.]] [[Voice from the room: She's not here yet.]] The reduction in revenue costs is for 12 million citizens. And if we look at 500+... The year 2018, ladies and gentlemen, is the second year of the full implementation of all the policy demands of law and justice with which we went to the elections. Please pay attention to these burdens and to the implementation of the deficit of 10.4 billion, 0.5 for the GDP indicator. So there's something to show for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am limited in time, so I will not develop all these threads that give you a sense of faith in a well-managed state, a sense of security. And I just wanted to say two more sentences about safety. Well, first of all, the budget of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in section 42. Total expenditure 21 906 022 000 represented 99.8% The plan. Mostly public security and fire protection, compulsory social security. More than 124 000 funds were allocated to the payment of officials and the remuneration of employees. zł, and at the end of the year, as you remember, after talking to the representatives of this professional group of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Joachim Brudziński, an agreement was concluded on the increase of salaries around 15% . And this request is being implemented, this commitment is being implemented. If we look at other expenses in this item, we have expenses for the police, they were made in 99.9% That's 10 billion, over 519 million to the Border Guard, 99.7%, 1 807 909 thousand. to the fire department. The total expenditure was carried out in the amount of 3 051 041 thousand. zł. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, our commitments on the international stage, crucial to security, fundamental security of borders. I would like to say that Poland has implemented them exemplaryly here, because, first, participation in peace missions, participation in operations was carried out in 99.9%. Defence expenditure rose from 37 billion to 42.8 billion. They have been increased because GDP growth was higher than that designed in the budget law, i.e. 3.8 to 5.1, and thus more than PLN 1600 million was added from the general reserve and the special provisions, with this very strict expenditure-to-GDP ratio of 2.02%. in relation to GDP, which amounted to PLN 2115,7 billion in the year under consideration. I would like to thank all those who contribute to the implementation of the budget, to its implementation and to the positive perception of what can be done, responsiblely directing the state, because this document shows it and has become a postulate on which to build further programme promises today, with the belief that the government can count on trust, because for the first time citizens have seen that what is being said is being realized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u33	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by guests from Łódź and Rzgow, children, near rural hostels and a group of Polish merchants. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] Please, now Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u34	Ladies and gentlemen! Where did he start his PiS rule? From destroying education. You started with education because you want to shape a man in line with the ideology of PiS: submissive, unquiet questions, locked up on others, obedient power and blindly believing in what you say. [[Applause]] This image emerges from the software base prepared by you on your knee. But that wasn't enough for you. You've driven the system to wobble. Your deformity worsens the quality of education, leads to a dissection of society, restricts access to good education for children and young people from smaller towns and rural areas. In chaos with a double yearbook across Poland, thousands of young people with good certificates not only did not get into the dream school, but also did not qualify for any. What do I hear from PiS politicians? You can study abroad, it's your fault, dreams don't always come true. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] And the Minister of Education doesn't see the problem, because they can study in a professional school, which they don't like or want to do in the future, or they can go to a school that's 40 and 50 km away. Minister! Young people have their dreams and ambitions, and you don't understand it, and their inhuman dreams are trampling. Let's at least look at what you've done when it comes to financial security for this deformity of education. Well, when we look at the 2018 report, we'll see that you've done nothing. In the 2018 budget implementation report, we will not find a penny transferred from the state budget to local governments to adapt secondary and sectoral schools to adopt a double yearbook, not a penny to transform secondary schools into secondary schools, and from September, these schools will start with armagedon: overcrowded classes, two shifts, no teachers, lessons in cafeterias, teachers' rooms or corridors until late in the evening. [[Voice from the hall: In the caves.]] Why aren't you helping local governments prepare at least double year rooms? The costs of the reform have been shifted to local governments at all. In 2018, local authorities spent over 76 billion PLN on all educational tasks, almost 6 billion more than in 2017. How many of these six billion have they received from the state budget? Well, about 1 billion and 5 billion had to contribute from their own budgets, from the budgets of their residents, the money that was supposed to go into investments, pavements, the fight against smog, the construction of apartments and other things needed in municipalities. You took money from the people of cities, towns and villages for a pointless reform that costs billions and brings chaos, worse learning conditions, [[Applause]] The tragedy of young people who, despite hard work and good testimonies, cannot pursue their ambitions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u35	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Maria Zuba from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 2018 was a very good year in the implementation of infrastructure investments both road and rail. A lot of good was done on Polish roads. [[Where was it?]] The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways continued to carry out the investment tasks adopted in the 2014-2023 National Road Construction Programme, including the construction of 240 sections of roads with a length of more than 3300 km, of which 725 km of new roads have been put into service so far. There is a process of preparing investments covering more than 2831 km of roads, and during tender procedures there are 11 tasks with a total length of roads of nearly 136 km. Currently, investments are being carried out for 113 tasks with a total length of over 1396 km. 88 projects The Directorate-General for National Roads and Motorways is implementing under the Operational Programme Infrastructure and the environment for the period 2014-2020. The total value of the projects financed by the Operational Programme is about PLN 61.8 billion. In the case of 49 grant agreements already signed for EU projects, 73% have already been contracted EU funds, the beneficiary of which is the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. After signing as planned by the end of this year, another 11 contracts will be contracted 90% EU funds from the current financial perspective, which ends in 2020, while the National Road Fund's reimbursement from European Union funds exceeded PLN 22 billion this year and amounted to PLN 7142 million in 2018. In 2018, investment work was carried out on all motorways and expressways. For use were the kilometers of modern roads, new roundabouts and hiking-bike lines, roads with new surfaces and new tenders were announced. The A1 motorway on the Toruń - Stryków section, 40 km on the Stryków - Tuszyn section, was extended by 143 km. Five sections of new roads with a total length of 93 km were given to drivers for use on the A2 motorway between Stryków and Konotopa. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] By 82.8 km the A4 motorway was extended on the section of Tarnów - Rzeszów. Three sections of the A4 motorway with a total length of 88.3 km between Rzeszow and Korczowa were available for operation. A total of PLN 807 million was spent on these investments, for the implementation of 12 sections. Road safety improved further investments last year on high-speed roads. Their cost amounted to PLN 9083 million. Last year the bypasses were built for almost PLN 870 million. Dangerous places have been removed and the amount of PLN 147 million has been allocated for this, with the removal of dangerous places in 2018 being also implemented from the budget. In total, PLN 10 847 million was spent on the construction of motorways, high-speed roads and the removal of dangerous places. Road safety has improved further investments, as I said. Two sections of the highway with a total length of almost 19 km were made available to drivers in Warsaw. In 2018 investment work was ongoing on 15 sections and three S3 express road bypasses. On 10 episodes with a total length of 147 km the works were completed. These sections, together with the Gorzów Wielkopolski and Międzyrzecz ring road, were put into service. On the S5 road, investments were also carried out on 15 sections with a total length of 255 km. On the Radomsko-Rydzyna section, a length of approx. 29 km, the investment was completed and put into service. Work was carried out on nine sections with a total length of 140 km and construction of two bypasses, Koszalin and Sianów, with a total length of 20 km on the S6 Highway. The wide front of the construction works was carried out on 22 sections with a total length of 307 km on the S7 expressway and Radom bypass with a length of almost 25 km. 12 sections with a length of 203 km, as well as a bypass, were put into service in 2018. Thanks to these investments, 46 km of S7 high-speed road was built between Warsaw, Kielce and Krakow. After opening in October, Radom's ring road travelers pass through Radom in several minutes. So far they have been passing through this city, often standing in traffic, often for more than an hour. [[And that's a traffic jam?]] Minister - I direct these words to Minister Andrzej Adamczyk - on your hands I thank the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...for bringing us closer, living on... [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] ...the Holy Cross land, the capital city, and for putting 21 km of road into motion... [[Those aren't Members' statements.]] ...from Chęcin to Miechów. Thanks to this, the Świętokrzyskie section of the road S7 gained 90% full parameters of the express route. Also in a wide range, investment was carried out in 2018 on 26 sections covering 393 km of S8 Highway, of which 24 sections of 371 km long were submitted for use. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment on the statement made by a Member from the Civic Platform who said that the fee for failure to comply with the time limits for carrying out the survey is an irregularity. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, the law, and the law must be used. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]] [[Voice from the room: Execute.]] Remember, please, Donald Tusk once told you from this speaker: I don't pay a radio-television subscription. You listened, and then you had trouble paying off your debts... [[You're paying well. You're paying well.]] ...which were taken only because you were on the road indicated by Donald Tusk. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[You don't want to go that way. You're right, you're right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u37	Thank you. Please, Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! PiS cheats disabled people. [[Applause]] Yes, you are cheating with the disabled, because if the Minister says it is so excellent with the budget, revenue increases, we can afford so much, why didn't you touch the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2014 next year? [[Applause]] The hypocrisy of this situation is that this judgment was demanded by the Members of the PIS. They claimed that it was necessary to put an end to the situation in which adult carers with disabilities have lower benefits than carers with disabled children. You demanded this sentence. Came down five years ago. You've ruled four years, and you haven't touched the execution of that sentence. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful.]] You cheated when it came to new jobs. Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Rafalska have announced that there will be 5,000. new jobs for people with disabilities. It's been two years, and where are these jobs? It was supposed to be helping the disabled, and it was just a pear on the willow. You tricked the disabled. [[Applause]] But how do you deal with reality? The Prime Minister spoke yesterday about a policy of dignity towards the disabled. Employment of people with disabilities is falling in the civil service. This is a real attitude towards the disabled. The number of directors is increasing, the number of managers is increasing, and for the first time in 10 years the number of disabled people employed in civil service has decreased. And finally, you can see how the rulers cheat, after a debate on the law, which is in hurried mode at the moment proceded in the Seym, about the so-called. supplementary services for persons with disabilities. Minister Boris-Szopa states: we listen, we are open to citizens' comments, and in the explanatory memorandum of the law you admit that there was no consultation on this law. Because you were afraid of this consultation, because during this consultation you could hear a lot of bitter words about how far you have failed to meet your commitments. [[Applause]] On the other hand, in this particular law, which is difficult to imagine, it once again reaches a light hand of PLN 4 billion from the Labour Fund. These 4 billion zlotys are taken on the basis that the Minister of Labour will decide, i.e. they may never return to the Labour Fund. Yesterday, in the committee, representatives of both the NSZZ and the National Trade Union Agreement said that no one agreed with them and that the two largest trade union centers were against such reaching out to the money that was intended to serve a completely different purpose. You're cheating the disabled. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All details are provided in the materials. We've all read it, we've all read it, we've read it, we've read it, we've read it, we've read it, we've read it, we've read the data, we've read the posts, we've read the millions, we've read the billions, so on. We're not juggling it. The Sejm is a place of political debate and we must talk about such a debate here. [[Yes, sir.]] Unfortunately, politics is not the best when it comes to public finances. Why isn't she the best? A good country is a country with freedom, a good country is a country where there are conditions for the development of an individual, conditions for social development, society, it is a country where taxes are at the necessary level and nothing more, and expenditure is reasonable and cost-effective, aimed at development. It is also a country which is an honest, honest state in every sense of the word - and in a broad and narrow - in which, when you say something, you do it, and if you don't say it, you don't do it. The question arises as to whether such a country and such public finances we have had in the last year. No, I'm afraid not. It is wonderful that income has increased, but we have lost, Prime Minister, Minister, you have lost your historic opportunity - a historic opportunity - to ensure that in Poland, for the first time in free Poland, there is no budget deficit. It's a sin, it's a mortal sin. [[Applause]] This is a sin that unfortunately will hurt all of us for generations, because this time it was possible for us not to have a deficit, and we still choose our grandchildren from the piggy bank, we still choose our grandchildren from the piggy bank. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Piggy is a positive idea in Chinese culture to be clear. Then I would very much like to ask for a political sobering at last. It's wonderful to spend money, especially when you have it, but it's not there. There isn't. Let's start by limiting the spending of money to the amounts that we have. I know that there are left-wing concepts that say that when it comes to sovereign debt, it can be done endlessly, you can spend, spend, spend, and somehow it will be. This is not only a left-wing approach, because, as we know, the Nazi Germans applied exactly the same method and thought that this is how the economy could be developed. Yeah, but they knew there was gonna be a war after that, and they wouldn't have to give it back anyway. We do not want war and we know that the Minister and the Prime Minister do not want it either. That's not the problem. The problem is that we should start being a mature country so that we can start speaking honestly so that we can return to the path of normal development so that we can do the same, because it's no wonder what our neighbors are doing. Czechs haven't had a deficit in how many years, Germany hasn't had a deficit. Why is Poland a negative exception? I call on us to act like good hosts, like our grandparents, like our grandmothers who spent as much as they had. I call on us to think about how to do this. Until we do so, it will be very difficult for us to adopt a budget implementation report, because this budget has remained wrongly done. First wrongly planned and then wrongly executed. We spend as much as we have, we don't spend our grandkids' money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Implementation of the budget, Part 20: Economy for 2018. It is worth noting that the revenue was planned at the level of PLN 500 million. I'll round the sums to make it easier. The implementation is at the level of PLN 118 million. The lower performance of income results from the transfer to the supervision of the NPRM of seven companies of the State Treasury, i.e. smaller than the planned proceeds from dividend payments. Other revenues have been achieved, among others. for fees for authorisations granted for wholesale trade in alcohol drinks, payment of part of the profit, surplus financial penalties, contractual penalties. Expenditure in the Budget Act is planned to amount to 566 248 000. zł. They are lower than in the plan after the 2017 conversions by nearly 2 billion and this results mainly from one-off expenditure in 2017 due to the recapitalisation of companies of the Treasury, the Polish Development Fund and the Polish Investment and Trade Agency. Expenditure was made at 92%, i.e. over PLN 498 million. The main actions of the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology are a multi-annual programme to support investments of importance for the Polish economy. 38 entrepreneurs benefited from aid under the scheme, resulting in the creation of more than 6 000. jobs and the generation of investments of over PLN 3 billion on the part of entrepreneurs. The multiannual programme of Poland's participation in the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises and in the financial instruments of the European Union's programmes supporting the competitiveness of enterprises. Thanks to the implementation of the programme, entrepreneurs have access to free comprehensive information and advisory services offered by more than 30 Polish centres in the field of innovation and technology transfer, helping to find technological and commercial partners. Information and promotion activities aimed at disseminating new legal solutions to small and medium-sized enterprises among the public, resulting from the package of laws, 100 changes for companies and business constitutions, are implemented by the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. The Ministry shall support the participation of business organisations in the work of international industry groups or organisations. As regards the changes in law in 2018, the provisions of the Act on the Management Board of a successful natural person enterprise, on the principles of obtaining information on the non-punitivity of applicants for employment, on market surveillance conformity assessment systems, on electronic invoicing in public procurement, works or services concessions and on public-private partnerships entered into force. It is also about the Law of Entrepreneurs and small ZUS, i.e. legal changes, which aim to reduce burdens, especially the smallest companies. One important item in the budget of contributions paid to international organisations is the contribution to the European Space Agency. As a member country, Poland has the right to recover about 80 contribution for industrial contracts in the form of orders for Polish entities. The basis for obtaining the above. return is a well developed national space sector. In June 2018, the Prime Minister of the Republic appointed Mr Adam Abramowicz as spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The Ombudsman's main tasks are to give an opinion on legal acts concerning the interests of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the conduct of business activities, to assist in the organisation of mediation between entrepreneurs and administration, educational and information activities. The European budget for 2018 spent 518 935 000. zł. The projects were carried out within the framework of the operational programmes "Smart Development" and "Digital Poland." The vast majority of the funds have been allocated to projects under the Operational Programme "Smart Development," which aims to increase innovation in the Polish economy, to support investments of particular importance for the economy, to support business environment institutions, and to promote the Polish economy. In the second part, I will say a few words about the implementation of the budget when it comes to agriculture. Of course, this is because we want agriculture to be this strong branch of the Polish economy. The 2018 budget for agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets required the introduction of new aid schemes for agricultural holdings, in particular due to the effects of last year's drought and the spread of African swine fever. In 2018, a total of over PLN 46 billion was spent on agricultural tasks in rural areas and agricultural markets, i.e. 96,93% expenditure planned in the 2018 Budget Act for this purpose, with increased expenditure on tasks in agriculture using other non-agricultural special-purpose reserves by means of a change of destination. In the amount of PLN 17 billion is expenditure for the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and nearly PLN 3 billion spent in individual voivodships on agriculture. The main sources of financial support for agricultural producers were grants for the implementation of the common agricultural policy and other European programmes related to agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets. The European budget spent a total of over PLN 19 billion in 2018, i.e. 99.98% the plan after the changes. In 2018, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the only paying agency in Poland, paid a total of PLN 14.6 billion of direct payments. In addition, under Pillar II of the common agricultural policy, the reimbursement of expenditure incurred for actions and operations launched under the Rural Development Programme and under commitments from previous rural development programmes was paid PLN 7.4 billion. The total amount paid by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture under national aid in 2018 amounted to more than PLN 1.86 billion, of which the largest amount of support, close to PLN 1.4 billion, i.e. 74.8% , came to the aid of farmers in connection with drought or floods. In an analysis of the implementation of the agricultural budget, rural development and agricultural markets in 2018, the full use of resources for planned expenditure on agricultural education in the amount of almost PLN 251 million deserves attention. This is an increase in expenditure on the education of future farmers and workers in the agricultural environment by more than 48 million PLN compared to the previous year. In summary, it should be noted that despite the difficult year for agriculture due to drought and other adverse weather events and price turbulence on agricultural markets, the planned budget expenditure was used in line with the objective and allowed for partial mitigation of the effects of drought, which was not planned in the Budget Act, which is worth noting. The increase in expenditure made it possible to implement in 2018. 184 943 payments of 1395 million for agricultural producers, and 565 payments of more than 11 billion for freshwater fish producers. Such a scale of aid due to drought was the largest in comparison with previous years with comparable losses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk about two symbols of the PiS government, which are the result of the last four years of your work. The number one rule of law and justice has become expensive in shops. [[Applause]] Inflation in June this year amounted to 2.6% It's not gonna get any better. The most expensive products are the first-needed ones, such as food. According to recent data of GUS vegetables - 22%, sugar - 20%, pork - 12% , flour - 10% ,Bakery - 9%. If today they are costing such raw materials as sugar or flour, this is an indication of further increases in prices for both food, prepared meals and hotel services. What causes this price increase? It's worth a moment to stay here and think about it. It's not just drought and exports, as the right-wing politicians are trying to convince us. The increase in labour costs and all hidden taxes, tributes, fees that you have introduced over the last 4 years into the Polish tax system have an important impact on prices. Yes, Mrs Leszczyna, nearly 40 new charges, taxes, raises, danin, however we call it, is an indication of prices in shops and on the cost that Poles feel today. [[Applause]] Taxes such as: commercial, banking, cadastral on commercial property, or a noisy fuel charge increase the prices of goods and services that Poles buy every day. Let's take this last example. By introducing the fuel levy, the PiS government thundered from this speaker that it would not in any way affect fuel prices, that the fuel in Poland would not be expensive. How's it going in practice? In January 2019 the average margin per litre of fuel increased by 125% in relation to the margin from one year ago and already amounted to nearly 40 cents. And again, if it costs more fuel, it costs more transport, if it costs more transport, it costs more goods, including food prices. The second symbol of the PiS government is the mismanagement of the Treasury companies. This Decision shall enter The NIK carried out two important checks, which perfectly pictured this mismanagement, incorrectness, abuse in these companies. The first concerned sponsorship activities, the purchase of advisory and media services. It seems like the way you like to take money into your pockets. It was particularly outrageous to spend money, funding for sponsorship, despite the fact that companies had losses, spending money for purposes not included in the financial plans, or spending it in an uneconomic way. It became an indecent symbol to waste money by the Polish National Foundation, which was to promote the Polish economy, and is engaged in slandering the constitutional organs of the state. I will briefly mention the second important check on the benefits paid to the managers of the Treasury companies. What did the check show? First of all, there has been a huge rotation in high positions in recent years. Either you have incompetent management, or you have a policy of working in these positions, because every colleague has to earn money. [[Applause]] Finally learn some of this economy and economy, we will live better in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u45	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I also address people who are watching this broadcast, not necessarily the High House, because in the High House we are living in a slightly different state of consciousness. Ladies and gentlemen! If you make a month's wages, let's say $2,000. zł, and you spend 2.5 thousand every month. zł, what does this lead to? You can borrow this money, for example. Mom, dad, son, daughter, uncle, but if you borrow them, you're addicted to the people you borrowed them from. That's the reality. How does this apply to the report on the implementation of the budget law for 2018? Ladies and gentlemen! It should start with the fact that the Kukiz Poselski Club15 did not support the budget presented for 2018 for one fundamental reason: it assumed a budget deficit. The Kukiz Club15 is a supporter of a balanced budget. We want Poland, our homeland, to act according to the same principles as citizens. If a citizen makes two or three thousand dollars. zł, this is it. It's just sick if he spends $2.5,000 every month. PLN or 3.5 thousand. PLN or even more and therefore has a deficit. Of course, you will say that in the case of the budget, the deficit is a normal matter. Yeah, normal? Do you know how much money we've spent on paying off debts that all governments and parliaments - all in their respective terms - have consistently incurred for decades? Nearly PLN 30 billion was spent last year on debt repayment. Ladies and gentlemen, these billions, of course, are difficult to imagine, so in order to show the scale, I will say that all budget expenditure amounted to PLN 390 billion. Nearly 8% of all the money that has been spent, among others. For health care, military, 500+, for us, nearly 8% we have committed to repaying debts which over the years, for decades, individual parliaments and governments have entered into on behalf of and at the expense of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! Excuse me, but I'm not gonna go into the details of the execution. If we look at it from a formal legal point of view, we can say that everything is okay. But no, it's not. We had to spend PLN 30 billion to pay our debts, and yet we still have about 1 trillion to pay. When are we gonna pay it back? Not much, the deficit last year, our debt, increased by another PLN 10 billion. We paid PLN 30 billion out of the 1 trillion debt we had, but we added to it. new PLN 10 billion. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a vicious circle. The Seym worked the way it works, and it works the way it did. It's an election in the fall. If you want to continue to indebt Poland and allocate maybe a tenth of the budget to repay the debt, then vote as you have so far. The budget implementation report will not be supported by Kukiz15 because it is incompatible with the fundamental principle of budgetary balance. The 2018 budget was not balanced. As a country we spent more - maybe not so much we, although well, well, I'm also responsible for it - than we've earned. Citizens were additionally indebted to PLN 10 billion. We don't agree to that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak. There's no envoy. [[Voice from the room: But it will be.]] Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u48	High Seym! Yeah, I'll keep going. PiS is lying and cheating because he made a political tool out of lying and cheating, a tool for managing the state's finances. We saw a festival of lies yesterday during a debate on a vote of distrust for Minister Kowalczyk. We were told that the PiS is executing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This judgment was supposed to concern the assessment of the Polish government of the Civic Platform and PSL as regards air protection issues. Nothing more wrong - this ruling concerned Poland's introduction of a shorter time requirement for air quality standards. And the PiS has now fulfilled that requirement. But how did he do it? He transferred all responsibility to the local government. He introduced for local governments the obligations of shorter deadlines, giving them neither regulatory tools nor rights nor money. And let us look at this money for this civilization challenge, the fight against smog, as Mr Morawiecki told us. This program is pure fiction, because it's nothing else. Well, we have a financial tool... Because there's no money in the budget for that. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management - zero money for this purpose. The only money that we had in 2018 for air protection was over EUR 4 billion negotiated by us for the infrastructure and environment programme - this amount is only for air protection - which you couldn't back out of because you withdrew from all the national programmes in the fight against smog, and you transferred the money for this purpose to Torun. But how does this national fund do? How does he manage? Well - and here I repeat after NIK - the president of the national fund Kazimierz Kuja was spending money illegally and incorrectly, as NIK states, on the public procurement for his boss, the chairman of the supervisory board, so that he could obtain the title of the personality of science. President Kuja is indeed a personality, but he is neither a personality nor a science nor a 2018. The IPN records indicate other years. The recordings on the Silver Company also talk about the current activity of this personality. But this personality also supports another personality. Well, we have the Independent Media Foundation of Tomasz Sakiewicz related to Gazeta Poland, to which the President allocated PLN 6 million from EU funds, to the portal Puszcza.tv. The most expensive way to reach one recipient to support the previous minister Szyszka. And what did it turn out to be? This unreliable and untrue project began to pursue our services, our CBA, our controls, but also the international control of the European Union by OLAF. And then what happened? This personality of the year, this president quickly withdrew EU money so there wouldn't be any control. And what did he do? He allocated not PLN 6 million, but PLN 7200,000. The zloty of domestic money so no one else can control it anymore. And this is what you're doing, in which money goes to protect the environment, but to protect your own environment, the environment of your own party hacks. And this is the only thing you do for Poland and for the environment. I'm not gonna care about other things anymore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u49	Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let's say what happened in agriculture for four years. Here are four years of great shows, detours, barns, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the PiS, instead of giving more money to agriculture, gave 1.5 billion PLN less in the 2019 budget. It's a budget of shame for agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture should be ashamed. It was you who drove, you promised that agricultural expenditure would be bigger. You still go to the country and tell the farmers you're giving money to them. That's actually a lie. That's cheating. 1.5 billions less in the 2019 budget You did so in the year when consumers and farmers are suffering from the drought of 2018, the most severe in 30 years. Instead of reducing farmers' losses, which amounted to PLN 8.6 billion, Minister Ardanowski only paid PLN 240 billion in the last year in his subordinate institutions, while food in June increased by almost 7%, and vegetables and fruits alone - almost 30%, not to mention the famous parsley. Today we have drought again, and Minister Ardanowski drives around Poland again and lies that he will help farmers. Farmers drown in unpaid loans, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of 2017, irrecoverable debts amounted to PLN 0.5 billion. However, the long-term law for farmers introduced by the PiS does not work. It entered into force in February 2019 but is dead. No farmer has made use of this law. Minister Ardanowski recently boasted that during his reign, the municipalities, where the ASF is performed, were declining. Well, that's an image lie. Only this year, until yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, 21 new bonfires were detected and nearly 16,000 were killed for this reason. pigs. In Poland, in the Polish countryside, 100,000 were liquidated for your governments. swine flocks. When 11 pigs were slaughtered in three outbreaks in 2014 and 2015 due to ASF, now 100,000 have disappeared from our area. pigs. Question: "Who is responsible?" Ladies and gentlemen, who is responsible for this? What awaits Polish agriculture under the PiS rule? Bankruptcy. Just look at the horse stud in Janów. In 2015, when PiS included governments in Poland, there were 3,200 thousand horses in Janów. zł surplus. Right now we have 3 273 243.96 gr loss - I quote from the report, documents and opinions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u51	Thank you. I just wanted to say hello to a group of seniors from Żywiec, along with the guardians who are at the gallery. [[Applause]] I think it's a misunderstanding, because I'm seeing a lot of young people. Why do you call it seniors? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please, now Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u52	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In 2018 we witnessed further results of the work of the Infrastructure Ministry in the Government of Law and Justice. After more than 2 years of cost optimization on investment tasks under the road and rail programme. Instead of taking advantage of the economic situation prevailing on the market for the contracting authority, speeding up the preparatory work and resolving the tenders already announced, the Minister wanted to prove that the predecessors were building too expensive and achieved the objective. [[Applause]] The unit cost of the motorway prepared by the government of PO-PSL amounted to PLN 34 million, while the unit cost of the same motorway prepared by the government of PiS - 47; an increase of more than 40%. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The increase in construction costs, as the predecessors have already talked about here, the cost of materials, aggregates, fuel, energy, services, equipment and transport, has caused companies to break contracts, demanding value for money in view of the government's passive attitude. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, the annulment process has intensified. In the following months the contracts on railway lines 7 and E59 were broken, on roads A1, S3, S5, S7, 61. Today we have negative dynamics in this area. From the beginning. tenders were announced for 100 km of roads and were broken down to over 200. These are the effects of the government's actions, [[Applause]] Resort in the next year, 2018 [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The program ended with a total failure for the resort, but in April 2018, Prime Minister Morawiecki took the initiative personally and said: Count me out of these words in April 2019. Within a year, we'll put it into use and build 100,000. apartments. So, Prime Minister, we're checking: we have less than a thousand apartments, and the National Property Resources have acquired a lot of land that is not suitable for building housing at all. On the other hand, the PiS government is quite well drained by companies performing road maintenance works under multi-annual contracts. Twice at the request of the Members of the opposition, we convened a committee on this matter, but the Deputy Minister of Finance, when he was offended that the President had not duly welcomed him, sent these companies to court. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And this was also the result of the infrastructure resort, taking part in the debate on the mobility package. These success stories are much, much more. I want to say, High Sejm, in the area of infrastructure in 2018 it was propaganda, propaganda, propaganda. It's easy to say, it's easy to promise, but propaganda doesn't change reality, unfortunately. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u53	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the PiS regime in terms of budget implementation in part: National defence has already established some very negative developments. First of all, contrary to the government's announcement, the funds allocated to national defence under 2% GDP is derived from the Ministry of National Defence for other tasks. This is a violation of our allies' obligations. First of all, this is fraud from the point of view of budget implementation, but also breaking very important alliance commitments and misleading the public, because either the Polish army and security require more money or do not require - you have to decide. More than billion PLN is carried out annually for other purposes. Instead of getting equipment... you spend money, but the military doesn't get new equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of 2018, the amount of advances, i.e. the money paid for unearned equipment, is PLN 18 billion. There is very little that the resort has at all such money for the realization of property expenses. 18 billion - the annual purchase plan is about PLN 10 billion. It shows that you really talk a lot, you don't do much. And, ladies and gentlemen, Polish industry. The share of Polish industry in MON-Polish contracts fell from nearly 70% under the Civic Platform to 30%. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: scandal!]] This government carries out large projects, large programs with foreign partners - i.e. realizes in the form of advances - depriving the Polish industry of any share. And what I'm saying is, ten years ago, the Platform government realized a great program for the Navy, we acquired a rocket system. [[Applause]] Foreign entity, but with Polish industrial participation - Polish companies in this project implement about 30% of the contract value. After 10 years, in 2018, the PiS government, implementing a rocket program for the Land Army, went down to level zero in terms of the Polish industry's share - even screws in the Polish industry does not have any part, there is no part in this project. [[Applause]] This is the liquidation of the Polish defence industry, there is no permission to do so, we will change it if we remove this government from power. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u55	Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This budget and these four years of government are a lack of money for health, queues, a network of hospitals with failing hospitals and a symbol: dentobuses. These four years are public television money, because only public television is the best thing for the four years. First it's 1 billion PLN, then 1260 million and loan from the Reprivatization Fund. Who's good with the PiS? Public television, which is your tube. And Mrs Zuba is talking about 17 km at Kielce... well, that's a comparison. I wish that the President of the National Bank of Poland, who submitted a report, would participate in this debate. And yet it is important for us to know how the risk of franc credits can translate across the whole sector, into the whole economy and why the Monetary Policy Council, PiS-owska, has not adopted this report 100%. The President should answer that question. There are no presidents of the National Bank of Poland or vice presidents in this room. It's outrageous. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u57	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u58	High Izbo! Another question, very important. The Justice Fund of the Ministry of Justice. We have a report from the NIK who says that the state budget has been spent purposelessly and uneconomically. What were those drugs going for? Internet portals. They didn't go to victims of violence, they didn't go to victims of crime. They went to Internet portals where Father Rydzyk says wearing amulets is harmful. These are the goals for which you spend these funds. Next issue: the Solidarna Polski event in Kraków in October last year. You spent 1364,000. zł for the event promoting politicians of Solidarna Polska. Here's another thing. Firms of bushes, organisations of bushes that gain subsidies, without any experience. One criterion: the link with the politicians of Solidarna Polska. The Justice Fund will one day be the subject of the prosecution's actions, and today I already commit [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ministers to explain the matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u59	Thank you. Mr Robert Majka, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wish you were Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[That's too bad.]] I would like to ask Mr Mateusz Morawiecki once again what is the economic state of the Polish state in 1989. To this day, I haven't even gotten the number of the document, the government one. It's very important. And my question: How long will there be so much unemployment in Podkarpacie, Prime Minister Morawiecki, that the only chance for young people will be emigration from Podkarpacie to Germany, to France, to Great Britain? This is a scandal, Prime Minister. Once again, Mr. Matthew Morawiecki is not here. I ask that the High Chamber also take into account that my interpellations in this case and in other matters are deliberately blocked by the Polish Press Agency. In Poland Poles cannot know the truth, because from 1989 until now, I do not know how long, there is a preventive censorship. There's an unobserved article. 54 of the 1997 Constitution, as well as of the Article, are not respected. 6 and Article 6 Ten press laws. This is an outrage. Therefore, we need to change this issue and from this stand I call on Poles to protest with me on 19 July 2019 against the preventive censorship in front of the Polish Press Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u61	Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u62	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club, I speak. I've got 11 minutes. Maybe it's hot first, 'cause sometimes emotions drive people. That's how I look at Deputy Minister Skurkiewicz and, ladies and gentlemen, facts and details. He pulls a wolf into the woods, and for me, as a reserve officer, defence issues are extremely important. Well, we used 2.02%... [[Wrong finger.]] Please don't be mean. It is an indicator that causes Poland to put itself in NATO as a model. [[It went on helicopters and submarines.]] Up to 1.95% You didn't get close. And one important piece of information. Throughout your reigns, you have not used 12 billion ready, concrete money that should have been used for defence. [[Applause]] That's it. That's it. Now I'm getting to the point. I've got 10 minutes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's a rare treat, isn't it, to speak? I've been here all these years, over 20 years in Parliament, a veteran, I've seen a lot of things, but there's really nothing to argue about. Okudzawa sang: As long as the earth spins surprised by the turn of affairs. We are also surprised at the turn of events, because the budget was very ambitious, courageous, but responsible. In the meantime, reality has exceeded its wildest expectations. I know it's bad news for the opposition and good for us, but we're vigilant and we're not overestimating our own accomplishments, but let them speak concretely. Ladies and gentlemen, the current implementation of ambitious budget plans in key positions... Even an uneconomicist knows that something like a budget deficit or just a debt... Just now, from this place, the opposition wise guys were talking about how many billions of debt went up. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Mr Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] Excuse me. Clever, intelligent Members of the opposition. [[Voice from the room: Why are you insulting us?]] I'm sorry. I said I'm sorry. The case is closed. I'm sorry, I got carried away because the element of smartness is a negative term... [[Are you talking about yourself?]] ...but that's why I apologized. Now I'm talking about your intelligence. In a very cunning, intelligent way, nominal growth was talked about, but what is most important was not said, and everyone knows that the measure of things is not the level of debt, but the ability to satisfy and repay it and the relation of this debt to GDP, and here we have something to show for it. Very specifically: our country's debt to GDP decreased from more than 50% to 48.9%. The second important indicator. We will be discussing the European Semester today. The European Union can see it, even the baby can see it, and you can't see how the indicators have improved. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget deficit from 1.3% to GDP, because this is valid, not epatching people with indicators and quotas, is also translated into formal amounts, up to 0.5%. [[It's either indicators or it's not.]] Yeah, it's important. I'm gonna say one more thing because it gets attention and it's very valuable. It is about productivity per hour of the Polish employee. There are 0.7 in the European Union. They're high, they're hard to climb, but we're chasing them. [[Applause]] An increase of 6.2 really delights the heart, should even enjoy the heart of the opposition, because we must bet on productivity in a situation where the world is moving forward so fast. I'm looking at this time with concern. [[Take it easy.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we need to talk about the unfavorable circumstances, perhaps not dramatic, but the pace of growth in Europe has fallen. There's a trade imbalance, there's a lot of circumstances, there's a trade balance. All these circumstances couldn't stop it. It's not just us. It is thanks to millions of Poles who work hard, who have made great efforts to adapt to change. The decline in GDP in Germany or elsewhere. Our companies, which are connected, can work very well. And praise the Poles for that. We are aware that these are elements, in a sense happiness, but happiness favors a better one. It must also be said that happiness is quickly tormented, but the happiness of the United Right seems to be in a state of untiring condition. [[Applause]] It's not our fault that the wind blows in our backs, that the circumstances favor us. Let's see what happens next. [[Skiing, Mr. Jumper.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, to the essentials. The opposition attack. I wrote these things down. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my opinion, maybe personal, I speak on behalf of the club, it's not really a dispute between the Platform and the PiS. This is a dispute, and I repeat this from this place consistently, I am convinced, concerning two visions of the state. These are two visions of the state. From this path, more social, more family-oriented, to weaker people, not because of their faults of the weak, who are in difficulty, nothing will push us down, just the election verdict. [[From his party, his family from the party.]] People have a simple choice: either they want to continue this policy or let them choose liberals. That word has to come out here. Don't pretend. When did you change your mind? It's what I've been living on. I've been tracking it for years. It's a change of heart. I just heard it's the end of the game. I heard about the indicators. Tell the pensioners, tell the families of many children, these few million people, that they won't get the money, but we'll have a better indicator that we'll have a surplus. You're dead with indicators, you're living on a daily basis. This change is visible in Europe, especially in Poland. Yes, you have to have the courage to say like Richard Petru. He doesn't pinch. Someone's gonna say he's saying goodbye to politics, he's gonna say goodbye to politics. But he said clearly here: it's not there, there's no distribution. He voted, I think two voted. He had courage. His courage is cheap, because what kind of courage it is, how he walks away, but he said it here. In the meantime, I hear... [[Get to the point.]] This is paradoxically very to the point, even to the pain. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[It hurts, it hurts.]] Yeah, it's gotta be said. We need to expose ourselves and say it. That's what I'm saying right now. I'd like to take advantage of that short time. Ladies and gentlemen, social transfers, handouts. No. And I'd expand the wings and tell you this: track, see where you had the best results, and where the worst. [[Don't be embarrassed. Please expand.]] That's a very good point. As for those people we raised from our knees, these are the districts where students, pensioners, families of many, sick and weak people live the most. They supported us because they saw you reaching out to them. [[Applause]] And we're gonna keep doing it. We make mistakes, we accept criticism. [[Young people didn't support you, don't lie. The young people didn't support you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u63	Sir, do I have your...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u64	But you're both thrilled, but you're thrilled. I'll say one thing: it's true, we accept criticism. We need it very much because there is nothing worse than looking at it and resting on the laurels. We have things to do, we make mistakes. There were many criticisms here. Thank you for that. Honestly, thank you, 'cause I'd like the opposition to get it together. [[Applause]] Get into the competition, let's talk about problems. We may give examples that we can get along together. There were cases where there was an agreement. I think an honest liberal with an honest socialist will get along, too, whatever those words mean. [[I'm a liberal.]] Because the words "liberal" or "socialist" are not bad words. The problem is practice, what it means for ordinary people. I've been in the Seym for 20 years. I noticed myself that when I'm full, so fancy, in a good mood, I want to vote yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And when I'm hungry, I growl in my stomach, I'm angry, I'm angry. No, no, no. [[Applause]] That's the way it is in life. People are happy and they're sitting in some places because I checked it out... I don't talk blah, blah, blah. I know who you are most... [[Voice from the room: Monodram.]] [[Go eat, go eat.]] And now I'm gonna tell you a little tip-off, going to the finals. My hero is a student, a family of many children. Our heroes are thousands, millions of people who have a hard time. Median net income - 2600. Okay? We talk to them, we care about them. Today you exchanged and condemned the solidarity tax. This is evidence and a sign. [[Manipulation.]] Growth dynamics of millionaires in Poland - 14% , over 32 thousand. People. And our prime minister... [[Voice from the room: Millionaire.]] ...for which I have a grudge against him, instead of smacking him instead of smacking him, he just grazed at 4% over 1 million. [[Applause]] [[My wife's estate.]] And you're outraged that millionaires are going to give 4% of over 1 million, and I'm counting fast. For who? For those most in need. I know things didn't work out for us. We should do it better, we should do it faster, but we can't help everyone right away. Warsaw is not Capernaum, and I am not Mario Wizard, I am Tadek Cymanski. [[Long live socialism!]] [[Voice from the room: But good division.]] Just so we're clear, there won't be any growth of bread. We can count. We have managed to link economic growth, numbers and evidence to a more ambitious, fairer policy. And regardless of the election verdict, one thing is certain: certain achievements no one will take away. From every position, whether I be an MEP or not, I will defend it in the Seym with all my methods, because it is a more just policy. If somebody doesn't like the word, then we have to say one thing: after four years we will pass the matter of our own hydration. We will leave Poland less unfair. Yeah, you could say that. How was it? Who's so ambitious... [[You're getting really excited. Ooh...]] ...that justice, justice? But the scale of injustice is still enormous. We're thinking about it and we're going to apologize to this Sejm, whatever it would be and whatever it would look like, with a redistribution policy. I'm telling you this. [[And in PiS languages.]] We're from the Committee on Public Finance, I'm looking at the president, the vice-president. I think that colleagues, honest, and there's a lot of them, and I think we're all honest... But I want to say to your liberal soul: really, open up and think about where to get the money. And have the courage to tell you who to take the money from, because there are no miracles. Many people have a hard time in Poland, but it will be lighter. [[What a beautiful theater.]] The choice belongs to the citizens, soon, soon. The urn will tell you the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Campaign.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Eat up.]] [[That's why he wasn't eaten.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u65	High Izbo! 31 people, ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the questions. [[Still, if you don't mind.]] Two more Members are registered, so there will be 33 Members. I'm closing the list of questions on this. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u66	High Izbo! I do not know who was more persuasive, whether Mr Cymanski or Mrs Beata Szydło, who entered this speaker a year ago and screamed: we just had the money. There are groups who also owned the money, and over the last four years, you haven't given it to social, medical, and gold. This group has Alzheimer's disease. For 3 years I tabled an amendment on the National Alzheimer's Programme, PLN 10 million. [[The voice from the hall: It was necessary to lay down the floor for its governments.]] Between 2015 and 2019 you doubled the IPN budget from 200 million to 400 million. Alzheimer's disease, it's about 0.5 million people in Poland, they didn't get a zloty from you. This problem was not perceived by the Minister of Health, by the Minister of Family. This is your great shame, because this is a disease that does not only concern patients, this is a disease that affects the whole family. You didn't help those people or the iota. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] [[Voice from the room: There are help homes for Alzheimer's patients.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u67	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, may I add further questions?]] I'll make an exception for you. Mrs Bożena Kaminska is not here? Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski, full of emotion and enthusiasm, was here asking for justice for the victims, and I want - it is a pity that there is no Prime Minister of Gliński, otherwise the Minister of Culture and National Heritage - to ask for cultural workers, those whom the Minister should take first care of. They never had good pay, but the more the average wage increases, even in the budget, I'm not talking about companies anymore, the more they're downstairs and there's no money for them. There's 150 million for father director Tadeusz Rydzyk and there's 1300 million for public television for their lying, vile propaganda campaign. [[What are those words, Madam Member?]] I don't know if the Minister knows that public television's participation in the election has been [[♪ The bell ♪]] Reported to the D.A.'s office... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[That was mean in 1968, in the campaign.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u69	Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. [[It's not okay.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: It is acceptable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u70	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! If it's so good and there's so much money for distribution, why has the government budget already been blocked at the end of the first quarter? The farm resort was supposed to find over PLN 300 million. The victim of this blockade fell, among others. Gardening Institute in Skierniewice, my hometown. Minister Ardanowski recommended that expenditure should be adjusted as a matter of urgency to the amount of the blockade and to the R &amp; D activities, with PLN 46 million cut into multi-annual research programmes. The Institute of Gardening lost 4.5 million in one project on innovation and over 6.5 million together with IHAR to protect gene resources. Both projects concern food safety. These are irreversible losses, and institutes are losing liquidity. What are you going to do about this problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u71	Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Supreme Audit Chamber we read: the health situation of Poles is still unfavourable. In the European health ranking for 2018 Poland only took 32nd place in 35 countries covered by the survey. We are only ahead of Albania, Romania and Hungary. The availability of medical services, cancer treatment, transplantation, dialysis, psychiatric care, care of the elderly is very low. The proportion of people benefiting from health benefits financed from their own pockets in 2018 increased by 10 points compared to 2016. The Prime Minister from this very speaker was talking about eliminating the queues for rehabilitation. He has so effectively eliminated, gentlemen, that in my city, the one in which I live, the 50-thousandth National Health Fund has not signed a contract with any entity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no rehabilitation in a 50-thousand-dollar city. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u73	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! In 2018 PLN 593.5 million was paid to public television for compensation for lost subscription fees. A year earlier, 266.5 million zlotys were hit and in 2019 1,120 million were hit. Why am I talking about this? Because in the last 3 years from the state budget to TVP - attention - up to PLN 2 billion. It is more than a year-round budget of NFZ for the treatment of diabetes, and this applies to 3 million patients in Poland. What can be financed for PLN 2 billion? That's a polite suggestion. For example, an in vitro programme for at least 23 years, because its annual cost is just PLN 86 million, or double funding for diabetes treatment in Poland. But no, you decided otherwise. You decided to fund the propaganda of the PiS on public television, and you deliberately chose this path. My question is: Are you really ashamed that 2018 was a year... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u75	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u76	...money? And you could definitely do that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's better to spend. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u77	Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the Polish Water Company. It is an economic entity that has been operating since 1 January 2018. According to the report, we can see that spending on maintaining the administration is at a decent level. However, I would like to ask about the actual executions, and this in-kind executions, which concern the river Oder and its basins, because we know that for years we have built our actions so that this river will have the best security there, but also to be navigable. Therefore, I would like to ask, firstly, about these investments which are or should be implemented in the field of flood safety, Polder Żelazna pod Opole, or three investments which are prepared by local authorities in Kędzierzyn-Koźl. What is their implementation time? Finally, I would also like to ask Minister Adamczyk a question. It's about the answer, I asked the Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to the river port in Kędzierzyn-Koźl. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u79	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u80	High Izbo! At the global summit, the country's debt of another 100 billion is really a result. In addition, ruining local governments at 23 billion per year for 50% underestimation of education subsidies is the result. Really. You guys made it. Due to time - three annoying issues. The Justice Fund, aid to victims of crime at the disposal of Minister Ziobra. Has NIK submitted a report to the prosecutor's office because of the excess of powers and mismanagement, Article. 231 and 296, because it was presumptuous disposal and mismanagement. Next thing you know, NBP. The National Bank of Poland does not contribute to the state budget or the zloty. It would double at least the teacher's salary. At least. Another year of drought. How much did you spend on water retention, especially this small microretence, because water companies were only 20 million. Scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u81	Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u82	There is - a lack of money for medicines, queues in hospitals, debts of hospitals after your reform, protesting teachers and students, a deformity of education, smog, Frankish troubles, a case at the Court of Justice of the European Union and possible problems. There's 3 billion for TV, there's bonuses for the government. There is no-- there is no disclosure of the prime minister's assets or his wife's, and there was a declaration, and that's what we're waiting for. There's no money to fight the smog. There's queues in the hospitals, and they'll remember that. There's still inflation, and this inflation is galloping. And you're glad you're in debt when every normal... You are standing, Mr Cymanski, with your hands spread out. It's your desperation that you're talking about things like that, that you're trying to make an actor here, not honestly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause I'm dreaming... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u83	Mrs Anna Białkowska, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the debate on budget implementation, I would like to ask you about the issues that have slipped away in the budget under consideration. They have been left out in the 2019 budget and seem unnoticed by the rulers. Polish patients were deprived of medication. Thousands of sick people all over Poland are looking for drugs that will save their lives. Has the government taken any action? No, it's not. There are Dantesian scenes on the hospital SORs. People wait for hours for help. Has any action been taken by the rulers? No. Dramatically, the queues are extended to specialists and treatments. Has any action been taken by the rulers? No. Law and Justice have broken away from reality. The real world of the sick is queues, searching for drugs and half a day at the SOR... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u85	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Platform Club. Thank you very much, Member, thank you very much. Ma'am, get off the stand because your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question will concern discrepancies in the shocking data provided by the Central Statistical Office on the state of public finances. I ask you to explain and answer why, on the one hand, the Prime Minister of our country is talking about the excellent condition of the budget, about the surplus budget, while on the other hand the GUS is buzzing about the fact that in recent years the PiS has managed to increase the government's debt by hundreds of billions of zlotys? It was possible to hide huge debts by carrying out creative accounting, but this report ended and it all came out. In addition to official statistics referring to 1 trillion debt, hidden commitments have also been shown many times above this amount, and I ask in that case to provide real information about the state of public finances, because Poles have this information, this truth simply deserves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u87	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I wanted to ask you about investments, who will make investments in Poland. The current investment rate compared to GDP is 18.2%. This is the 1990s level, even though the Prime Minister promised 25%. Of which 18% local government investments are located. Please tell me how the local authorities are going to implement these investments, since the government in recent days, as a result of the laws taken and the lack of compensation, has deprived the local authorities of nearly PLN 30 billion for investments per year. So there will be no investment in local governments. What about businesses if the optimism rate of business services is decreasing? Please consider and ask for an answer who will invest in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u89	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The revenue of the state budget in 2018 amounted to PLN 380 billion, expenditure - 390, deficit approximately PLN 10 billion. Mr Cymanski, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, it is only a good thing that you spend what you earn and not burden future generations. 10 billion PLN this is a burden on the back of our children and grandchildren, and this is unfair, Mr President. [[Okay.]] Come here and apologize for that. [[No, no.]] The first issue was government bonuses, credit cards, pay for political offices. What was missing: health of Poles, education, infrastructure. What we see: canceled tenders, exits from buildings, congestion, the catastrophic situation of Polish transport companies. I have to say that this budget is a little bit like what the PiS policy is, which is a lot of smoke from German garbage and Russian coal. And I have to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u91	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was less money in the 2018 budget for the construction and maintenance of roads and motorways. We alerted, asked to assume PLN 1,200 million more. There was no money, and even more so, no money for local roads. For many, many years, ladies and gentlemen, we have been trying to get them on the S1 road running from Bielsko-Biała to Mysłowice. The whole region is waiting for it and there is still a delay, even the tender has now been postponed again. The same story is with the Beskydy Integration Way. 2024 - that's the answer I got. And bypassing Hungary's Hill, which has been sought by many of my fellow Members from my region, is scheduled only for 2023. For many, many years, the inhabitants of our region have been waiting for these investments. Why didn't you find the money for such important investments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the country and the region?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u93	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! It is a pity that the President of the National Bank of Poland is not present. I don't know if there are employees or representatives of the board. [[They're ……]] I will ask for a written reply because the President said there will be written answers. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. President talked a lot about banks. And I would like to ask if, in the light of the upcoming judgment in the form of a judgment of the TSUE regarding the French loans, the National Bank of Poland has prepared a crisis variant. The case is very serious and dragonfly for the Polish state, because today banks conduct strong lobbyist activities to save their skin. We are talking about private and foreign banks, but I would like to know what option the National Bank of Poland has prepared in case private foreign banks have to bear the consequences and penalties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For breaking the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u95	Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Szewczak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Robaczyński. Minister, after yesterday's meeting of the VAT Investigation Commission and after the information provided by the head of customs about how it has been supported in recent years, how it has been facilitated for VAT mobs to rob tax revenue, do you share the view that if the approach to budget and finance were to be the same as it is today, today we might wonder what we could spend the budget surplus on, whether on Alzheimer's patients or on diabetes, or on cultural workers? After all, it evidently emerges from yesterday's shocking testimony, which scale of money was wasted and extorted. There would really be no discussion today about the fact that there are any financial problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u97	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With all my power, I'll repeat it 100 times. The implementation of the budget cannot be compared, not to mention in which external conditions it is implemented, i.e. or in a boom or a deficit, because these are different worlds. In the economic situation, and this is what we have in Poland, in Europe, more and easier money can be made and more can be done. The Minister of Agriculture tells farmers that no government has ever spent as much money as the Government of Law and Justice - 2,3 billions. Drought. That's true, but the losses in that title were 8.1. [[Right. That's true, too.]] There has never been such a drought in our country, and no government has ever had to spend that money. You are presenting the implementation of the budget, as if individually from your own private accounts you have invested the state budget. Our task as Members is to assess, select the importance and hierarchy of the planned budget and nothing more. If we do this and we agree here, it's OK, but not the budget, [[♪ The bell ♪]] P.O. to P.S. It's a mistake. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u99	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will, of course, continue with the matter of clean air, because this is an important topic, as it turns out. I'm asking about the Thermomodernization and Renovation Fund. Under our governments, by 2015 we have allocated 1900 000 from the state budget for this purpose. PLN, about 200 million a year, and it changed Poland, along with warming. What's the money now? It was supposed to be 20 million in 2018, and what is it? To be silenced, to be extinguished, because there is a new idea, a stop smog, based on intentional contracts, but these intentions are not good, because they are based on a recycling fee. You invented a fee for plastic bags and the Poles took care of them, stopped using them, so instead of 1,200 million, you have 70 million. So what's the reaction? A new bill and a tax. Draining Poles' pockets for thicker sacks. And my question. And if Poles really care about this tax... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: It will not be tax.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u101	Mrs Maria Nowak, Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Basketballs will be there.]] [[There won't be any money, because you're just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u102	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question about part 28, which is science. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[What's this waving your hands at a woman, behave yourself.]] [[We're not on you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u103	Mr Meysztowicz, take it easy because you're getting emotional again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u104	I can't ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u105	Mr Meysztowicz, should I punish you? [[Then pay attention to how your friend at the PiS club behaves. To a woman like that...]] Don't shout. You're not at the market, you're in the Seym. Shame on you. [[The Lord is blind because he only sees what we do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u106	Mr. Marshal, maybe we should leave this alone.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u108	Total expenditure of Part 28. Science was, as compared to 2017, increased by 21.6%, which was very positive, very well received by the world of science. But I have a question about the subjective grants transferred to the NCBR and the NCN. Namely, only 36 million were made to the NCBR from the planned amount of over 43 million. On the other hand, the NCN of the planned amount of more than 37 million was realized 30, almost 31 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I have a question: What was the reason for not using 100% planned subjective grants? I think there was an important reason for this, but please state the reason. What percentage of research, scientific projects have not been qualified for an opinion... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have a slightly bad opinion because you have become famous for your weakness in building roads and highways. This is your flagship project, that unfortunately all roads, highways lie with you. Therefore, the inhabitants of Chełma have a very serious question: What about the passage of the S12 road within the Chełma ring road? 'Cause it looks like it's been four years, and the road promised is gone. You promised, and there's no road. Another problem. What about living +? There was no apartment in Chelm. Currently, the local government majority in Chełm is from PiS, unfortunately it appears that there is also a danger of repairing the national road through the street. Rejowiecka and Rampa Brestska. Well, you guys aren't building it. I'd suggest you take care of it a lot more. Local roads, ladies and gentlemen... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u111	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform Club. [[You extended your previous statement by 30 seconds.]] Yes, because Mr. Meysztowicz was interfering with the proceedings, but no one interfered with you. Please leave the podium. [[You don't treat it evenly...]] I treat it very evenly. [[I'm asking...]] Please leave the platform and don't disturb me. I'm gonna have to make you... [[Voice from the hall: Don't be so nervous, Marshal.]] [[And what debt did you leave in Chelm? What kind of debt did you leave behind?]] Mr President, please step out of the podium. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! I will continue with the disaster on the road construction market. I'd like to ask you where the Zator ring road is, where is the Chelmc and New Snot ring road. You've reduced the scope of work. Only for projects. You can't drive after the projects. S52 expressway, Kraków - Bielsko-Biała. Yesterday we found out that you were planning to build it after 2024, but the condition was that the mayor of the PiS in Wadowice won the election. And what happened? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. That's another line. Construction of the S1 expressway with the Oświęcim ring road. It was supposed to be a long time ago. Not a dime, not a dime. There's no invitation to tender. You've been quiet about building this road. Symbolic 0 m built highways. You didn't build anything. This does not apply only to motorways, this applies to all kinds of roads. You tricked the Poles, you tricked the people of Oświęcim and the whole Małopolska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u113	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u114	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Since the beginning of his term of office, Kukiz15 has demanded a tax-free amount of 30,000. That's where I'd like to draw the pensioner's line. Retired people, working professionally, spent their entire working life paying tax. Retirement is being postponed again during this term of office, and now it's a tax. Often, ladies and gentlemen, in meetings with pensioners, I explain: if you have 2,500. Retirement, that, times 12 months, is 30,000. zł. Two and a half thousand. 20% tax on this is 500 PLN. 500 times 12 months is 6,000. And you got crumbs from your table, 1100 zlotys gross, which is 888 zlotys. With pensions like some retired people have now, it's hard to live. This is a struggle for survival, and where are the trips, and where are the holidays? And, to sum up, when the government makes a draft bill and comes up against the Kukiz proposal15 on the amount of free [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the amount of 30,000. zł to surround... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: These are negligence from previous years, not after us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u115	Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address my question to the President of the National Bank of Poland, namely whether there are competent deputies who could represent him here in such a way as to answer our question, since he himself is not mobile enough, there is no possibility of staying here. The question is, who does it serve, whether it serves the government or whether it serves the nation here. That's one question. And the second thing I'd like to ask you, too, is that I would also like to be informed in writing. Namely, at least four members of the Monetary Policy Council did not accept the central bank's report, referring in particular to staff and payroll policy. I'd like you to refer to it. And after those beautiful promises he made here, saying it's great, will it also assure us that interest rates in the event of loans will not increase as soon as the elections have been won? Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: Well, I don't think so, because how do the winnings relate to the interest rates?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u117	Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u118	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question about the multi-annual program He was created in 2015 as Senior-WIGOR, still by Minister Kosiniak-Kamish. On the other hand, as the "vigor' was converted to "plus', the financial resources decreased by half. Today it is continued, but it was achieved only in 83% last year. I wanted to ask if the seniors wanted that money on the plus side, or if someone didn't do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u119	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz's government guaranteed funds for the construction of the S1 road along with the Bierunia ring road. Unfortunately, the PiS government deleted this program and started again creating financial assembly for road construction. The effect is that although, according to the plans adopted by the previous government, this section, crucial for the Upper Silesian agglomeration, was to be put into service as early as 2021, it is now known that this is not going to happen because no work in that region has yet been carried out. I would therefore like to ask: What is the issue of financing the S1 road today? What budget resources were planned for this road to finally be implemented? And what actions will be taken in connection with the implementation of the S1 route this year? I also ask this because from the various information that reaches local authorities, it appears that you are planning a similar amount as a few years ago to finance the construction of this road. The problem is that the cost of construction investments has increased significantly and therefore [[♪ The bell ♪]] the measures envisaged by you may be completely inadequate and the project will not be implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u121	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Platform Club. [[And why did you leave me out?]] Oh, yeah. I'm so sorry. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Platform Club. Let's stick to the order.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u122	Thank you, Marshal. The year 2018 was full of government work on setting up additional special funds, local government support fund, electromobility fund, development of bus transport, access fund, mostly funded from the same sources, e.g. the transport development fund partly with the KFD. Question: "Have we completed the construction of roads in Poland?" Don't we already have needs? The construction of the railroad, too? Next question to the Prime Minister. And how many of the millions of electric cars drive on Polish roads? [[I know how much. 1,300.]] Mr Cymanski, these actions have nothing to do with the real resolution of social problems. It's a PR procedure, just like your speech just now. If it's so good, why did you exchange five vice ministers in the infrastructure department in three years? That's a record. I've never heard of it. [[Voice from the hall: But the minister stayed.]] [[What does that have to do with anything?]] And a question for the CEO of NIK. When we see the NIK report on the acquisition control of the National Pay Collection System by [[♪ The bell ♪]] Chief Road Transport Inspector? What's the government got... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u123	Mr Hennig-Kloska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about two key investments in improving road and rail transport for the inhabitants of Wielkopolska, from which I come. The first is the construction of S5, from Gniezno to Tricity. Nothing seems to happen on this episode, especially at the level of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is silent. The road has been dug up, people, equipment and, above all, the progress of work on many sections is not visible. The second problem is the railway route from Poznań by Konin to Warsaw, renovated for 2 years. Recently trains have returned to this route in 2 years, but in fact the journey time has increased at this moment, counting with already basically standard delays by half an hour. When will these investments be finished? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u125	Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about your medical expenses. In 2017, we passed a law that determined the investigation to 6%. GDP. This year, as we know, we will spend over PLN 100 billion on health care. I wanted to ask what it looked like in 2018. How many billions have we spent on health care compared to GDP in 2018? This issue is often raised and interpreted differently, so please explain it clearly here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u127	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Club Pla... No, the Law and Justice Club. [[Oh, it's not a platform. Not yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the statement by the opposition representative, there was an accusation about a huge public debt of about PLN 1 trillion. Minister, isn't this superposition of deficits of all budgets since 1991 for the 2018 budget intellectual abuse? It was the rule of law and justice that reduced the deficit to 48.9%. In 2010 it was 55% GDP. One member of the opposition announced the end of the rule of law and justice. I will use sports language and say that we have a good macroeconomic wind under skis and fly far and in style. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, excellent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u129	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I'm afraid the landing's gonna be pretty tough. [[More like an MP.]] I have a question for President Kwiatkowski. Mr President, one of the main important elements of the budget is the proceeds from the dividends of the Treasury companies, while during the PiS regime only energy companies lost 16 billion PLN in terms of their value. I'm not surprised, since 150 million zlotys cost checks on the Misiewicz carousel, who every year become presidents of these companies. I'm not surprised. PGE: loss - 49%, Tauron: loss of value - 60%, Energa - 37%. Congratulations on the management of the Treasury companies. I'm here to see Mr Cymanski. Mr Cymanski, we are talking about budget deficits, about cash, and you are talking about indicators. I suggest you go to the bank, take the loan and pay it off with indicators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Oh, good, good.]] [[You don't understand anything about this deficit. Deficit doesn't pay in cash.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u131	Member Paweł Grabowski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. First: How much money was spent on subsidies for political parties in 2018? Second question. Assuming that the budget is now in debt for PLN 1 trillion, with a deficit of PLN 10 billion and PLN 30 billion a year, how many years do we have a chance to repay the entire budget deficit, or actually debt? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u133	Member of Dorota Sunday, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the beginning, Mr President, I am Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture. I don't know anything about it, but it's kind of silly that you're wrong about public debt and budget deficit. But let's cut to the chase. When will the money be available for the Veterinary Inspection? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a breakdown, actually the financial and cadaver crisis of the Veterinary Inspection in Poland. 400 jobs are missing, 160 million are missing, and the Minister of Agriculture still doesn't pay attention to it and says that everything is okay. Please, this money is dependent on food safety in Poland, while the minister is the master in creating companies, foundations, funds whose sole purpose is to drain money which, instead of going to farmers, feed PiS managements. When will the money be available for the Veterinary Inspection? When will she be strengthened? When will there be 400 jobs to fight ASF? When will you finally start taking care of inspections that are about food safety in Poland? [[Applause]] [[That's what we passed on the committee yesterday.]] [[It was just a shift, it wasn't a job.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u135	Member Tadeusz Cymanski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! We tell who, how much and from where, we speak clearly and clearly. The opposition supports all our projects - without enthusiasm, to say the least. She's angry, but she doesn't have a choice, she supports. The evidence is there. Check it out. And now here they're saying no more handouts. And yet it is said: there will be no further debt. I ask the Minister - and take advantage of this opportunity, explain it educationally - who stands firm on the ground, maybe ambitiously, and who gets high. It's a blast, isn't it? What does it mean to meet this demand for millions of people - this is recorded, check - who are demanding that only debt support be included in the budget? No more issue, no more bonds. Stop. What does that mean when it comes to projects and what they're proposing? 'Cause they're gonna give us another 30. That's awesome. Explain it, I'm asking you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u137	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of people who are written down for questions. We answer these questions. Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will be the first president of the Supreme Audit Chamber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your questions to us. As you can see, both myself and the entire management and all the directors - here and at the gallery - of the control units to the end - were involved in this discussion so that we could answer your questions to us. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński asked if, in the context of the Social Justice Fund, we would send a notification to the prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, we will not address a notification to the prosecutor's office. Why? Since the legality criterion was not infringed and it is the basis for a possible proposal in this regard. [[Yes, sir.]] And why was the legality criterion not violated? Since in 2017 the amendment of the implementing Penal Code extended the catalogue of actions that could be financed from this Fund. [[That's it. That's it.]] Therefore, the Supreme Audit Office of course assessed this in budgetary control, we considered that the funds spent for other purposes are not intended in the context of the basic actions that are assigned to this fund, but that there was no breach of the legality criterion in connection with the previously amended legislation, and this criterion of legality is the basis for a possible referral to the prosecution. Mr Stanisław Żmijan asked when we would present the audit information on changes related to the electronic toll collection system viaTOLL. Ladies and gentlemen! During this audit, we had a dispute with one of the control units which, during the course of the audit, imposed a secret clause legally protected on the information she had provided us. Given that it would not make sense to inform the findings of the checks without this information, because they were crucial for the possible preparation of information on the results of the checks, we referred to an entity which determines whether the information should have the status of a legally protected secret or not in accordance with the regulations in force in Poland in this respect. In this case, it's the Homeland Security Agency. The ABW has acknowledged to the Supreme Audit Chamber that this clause should not be granted in this respect and this has only allowed us to complete our controls in the sense of preparing information. I would like to inform you that we will be able to present this information in the near future. I'm sure we'll want to do it in the month of July. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz asked about the decrease in dividends from the Treasury companies. Of course, we can prepare a more thorough analysis. I would like to draw your attention to what is already in the budget implementation report, including the document we presented to you, on page. 99. There's information in there. And here I can tell you that 100% the share capital involved in nominal terms received PLN 2 29 of the dividend from the State budget. That's less than in the previous years. In 2017 it was 2 zł 48 gr, in 2016 it was 3 zł 2 gr, and in 2015 it was 6 zł 63 gr. Of course, I am not able to answer the question of what caused this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Gadomski will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome. [[Oh, that'll tell you about that indicator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u140	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think there weren't many questions about health. There were a lot of comments. I think it is worth bringing these comments closer to the facts and really showing what the facts and figures are, what are the real actions. [[One thing happened again.]] It has been repeated, sir, probably even a few. Let's start with the foundation. I've got 14 minutes. However, I will try to structure these comments in some way and yet give them real status, let's say. [[Who are you gonna talk to when there's no opposition asking questions and pressing charges?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u141	Mrs... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: I think, Madame, that I find it difficult to speak out for the opposition, but maybe they will listen to my statement. Let's start with the health benefits. That was also Mr Bielecki's question about actual health expenditures... [[The recipes.]] ...and what this situation is like. [[Agreements too, agreements.]] So we have to actually refer to the fact that 2018 was the first year of the provisions on minimum health expenditure. These provisions imposed an obligation on us to set these expenditures at a level of not less than 4,78%. GDP. This gave 88.5 billion PLN for that time. The plan for 2018 was already higher, because it was at PLN 90 billion and its implementation ended due to some quite significant increases in the amount of PLN 93.6 billion. That's 5 billion more than we planned, than we planned not much earlier, because we planned according to this bill. That's worth pointing out, too. It is 6 billion more than in 2017 and 13 billion more than in 2016. In order to illustrate this even more - although there are no Members of the opposition - maybe we should return to the years 2010 and 2015. [[They're here, ……]] Excuse me. [[What do you mean, it's gone?]] With all due respect, I didn't look more to the left. Between 2010 and 2015, this increase in expenditure over the whole period was 11.5 billion more. For imaging, this is what we increased in 2019 compared to 2018. Compared to 77 billion - in 2015, today in the 2019 revised plan - 102 billion, more than 25 billion, more than 30% more than what's been going on. It's more important than a minimum levy law. It is already 2019 and this plan that we have exceeds the levels or is approaching the levels set for 2020. It actually shows the actual and real numbers that we should talk about. It's a foundation. Insults are the foundation, but these outlays determine actually also some of the actions that we can take later and which we want to take. These actions in 2018, because we are finally talking about the implementation of the Budget Act for 2018, these expenditures have allowed for several increases: to increase in the implementation of high-specialist services, to increase in the IT of operators, to increase in the reimbursement of 75+ medicines, to increase, which is probably the most important from the point of view of health strategies, admission limits for medical and nursing directions. We can talk a lot, probably even direct huge cash streams, but if we don't take care of the medical staff, they can't be used anyway. Since we're on HR issues in health care, I'll give you a few numbers. In fact, thanks to the activities of the Ministry of Health, we increase practically all parameters concerning medical training. The number of nurses and midwives employed is increasing. For the first time in 2018, all nurses who completed their education received the right to pursue their profession. What does that tell you? This is due to the application of a series of activities that are specifically addressed to nurses, strategies for the development of nursing, the increases that nurses use, and certain incentive schemes, such as a scholarship program for nurses who finish their studies so that they want to stay in the profession. This is also due to an increase in admission limits in nursing directions. Quick comparison again: 2014 versus 2019 In 2014, there were 75 nursing schools, in 2019 there were 98. Very graphical comparison. Academic year 2009/10, 5,5 thousand. nursing graduates, 2017/20189,5 thousand. It's not twice as much, but it's almost there. Some of it's a little harder for doctors. However, this machine needs to get a little more exciting in the field of medical training, it is a little harder to educate doctors than nurses, but again if we look at the figures: 2014 - 15 100 doctors attending the residency, 2018 - 18 263, i.e. by more than 3 thousand. More, 25%. These are also the effects of the actions to which we are directing budgetary resources. Strengthening residents in priority areas, increasing the remuneration of residents in general - these are also the elements to ensure that in the perspective of probably such a critical, because 10 years, we will significantly increase medical and nursing resources. We talk a lot about SORs. It's a difficult subject. The operation of a hospital rescue unit is, as a rule, difficult, sometimes the most difficult cases, which arouse the enormous emotions of patients, sometimes also of staff. It is known that we cannot talk about SORs in isolation for many years of different activities, but we cannot say that we are not doing anything. Let's take a look at some of the factors that are actually defined by hospital emergency services. I'd like to quote a few numbers. Firstly, since 1 July, there has been an increase in the valuation of the base rate for the SOR. This is our first reaction to reports of a crisis in the SORs, whose dimension included a numbern omen mainly one voivodship and which had a more local than national character. There has been an increase in the valuation here, but as we look at the expenditure incurred in 4 years, the expenditure of the National Health Fund on emergency services, it can be seen that they have increased by more than 53%. It's not like we're not putting extra resources in there. Let's take a look at some organizational requirements. This year we have made statutory changes and we have actually introduced a structured and nationwide system for the management of hospital emergency services. It is a system supported by the TOPSOR system, a system by which the triage of patients is to be performed, i.e. in Polish medical segregation - a slightly uglier name - so when the patient comes to the SOR, the state of his health is finally to be determined and depending on this determination depends on how much he can wait. [[And 60 minutes of waiting is real?]] Yes, in the case of these most difficult groups it is, of course, real. Moreover, it is not indicated in European or global standards, but the SOR should, of course, wait as short as possible, while there are groups of patients who can wait longer, because first we need to take care of this red group. Or orange. This is a group that needs to be taken care of sometimes not within 60 minutes, sometimes immediately... [[Now.]] ...sometimes in 1 minute, and we're not really talking about the limit in the case of the red group. Or orange. However, even if in the context of these statutory changes, as part of the piloting of this system, we looked at what patients or what colors, how complicated cases of patients end up in the SOR... There's a huge number of cases, in some hospitals it's over 80% patients, simple, patients in the green, blue group, patients who couldn't really get into the S.R., but they get there. Unfortunately, such a patient has to face the fact that if he is in such a state of danger, which means that he is practically gone, the SOR will have to wait for his turn, but we have a group of patients with a much higher risk. If we are talking about SORs, it is impossible not to say about investment support for hospital emergency services. Between 2016 and 2019, 966 million PLN was transferred from the combined, EU and budget programmes, almost 1 billion PLN was dedicated to the development of diagnostic equipment, to the development of landing sites in the SORs, to the creation of new SORs, because we are really also talking about the creation of new units. This is where I'm going to refer to the Air Emergency Service, because we've heard statements about a realization of 21% before. I think we need to further analyse what is involved in the air rescue service, because, in fact, the implementation of the multi-annual programme for the purchase of aircraft, the restoration of these bases has not been successful. These are difficult tenders, stretching, failed to implement them, tenders are continued this year. But if we look at the air emergency service and its budget, in 2015 it amounted to PLN 102 million and in 2019 it will be over PLN 140 million. These are real measures that have been aimed at many actions, to extend the working time of the air rescue base, to create new bases, to introduce night flights, which was not before, to actually continuously develop infrastructure. The amount of money allocated to investments in the area of the air rescue only is over PLN 100 million over the last 3 years. It's probably hard to relate to all the comments. Some were about prevention, some were about queues. It is known that these queues cannot be shortened only by means of the cash flow itself. [[Voice from the room: Sure.]] [[No personnel.]] This is what I've been talking about, but for the record, it's not like the MRI queues -- I think it came up here -- they've tripled. It's for the record. If we look at it historically, we'll see that in case of an MRI and a CT, the line stands. It is worth noting that since 1 April this year we have introduced unlimited benefits just in case of an MRI and a computer tomography in order to take real action shortening. Why are you doing this? These results from some experience with cataracts. That's where we really started shortening the queues. Half a million people were expecting cataract surgery in 2015. Today it is about 250,000, a large group of which are patients who will not pass the qualification, so the really waiting group is much smaller. Today we are talking about the fact that we have 100 units in Poland, 100 healthcare providers with whom we can operate immediately. There's no line in there. This is the effect of redirecting the stream of resources and implementing certain organisational standards regarding when we perform these operations. It's time for further action, I agree. Mr Cymanski said: we draw conclusions, not everything is perfect. Queues are not a problem that can be solved within a year. Moreover, even what has been done in case of cataracts, in case of many other specialties it will probably not be possible to do so quickly. These are the first cokes: unlimited benefits, extension of access to CT and MRI. These actions are about to pay off. Of course, there is always the same question here: when do we shorten the queues to specialists? This is about the medical staff. If we educate more people - what we do - and spend more and more resources on medical staff, these queues will naturally start to shorten and doctors will be more accessible. There was a comment on the lack of funding for prevention and the incomplete implementation of the oncology programme, as if these issues were to indicate the whole action and the approach of the Minister of Health to oncology. This is absolutely untrue and certain abuse. This is confusing a single intervention programme with a whole catalogue of activities carried out in oncology. I'm running out of time, so let me get this straight. It is a matter of piloting the National Oncology Network and targeting activities primarily to ensure that all patients regardless of their place of residence have the same standards of care, the same ones supervised by centres with the highest reference quality standards. This is a huge change in oncology. It's a change that's been atoning for a long time. We can talk about huge availability - 2.5 thousands. units that deal with oncology in Poland. There isn't that much in any other country. However, we must strive to improve quality standards. This is the first element. Another element is accreditation. I'm gonna call in the pathology project we initiated. It is very important from the point of view of oncology. The next issue at the top is the National Oncology Strategy. For years it has been said that there is no National Oncology Strategy, so we have finally started work on it. The President of the Republic has taken part in this legislative initiative. The National Oncology Strategy will be established, will apply from 30 November this year and will establish a catalogue of actions for the next 10 years. It is known that this will not be the actions that we could do here and now, as we would probably all of us They wanted to, but finally there will be a government document to direct these actions. Not to mention investments in oncology that have been at record levels in the last three years. If I had more time, I would tell you more about the Breast Cancer Unit and the Lung Cancer Unit - high quality comprehensive benefits that patients have been demanding for several years. I spoke to the head of the Polish Coalition of Oncological Patients, who had been lobbying for 14 years to finally create it and finally arose. In May this year, the Minister of Health signed a regulation on the Breast Cancer Unit. I hope he's about to sign the Lung Cancer Unit regulation. 15 minutes passed very quickly, but I hope the facts [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the numbers I've quoted give a good picture of the situation. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Ms Anna Moscow, will now speak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a question about water management and inland waterway transport. First of all, I'm gonna tell you about Polder Iron. This is an extremely important institution for us and an extremely important investment, to which we approach in a coordinated manner. The big problem was taking over the file from the marshal. This trial continued, but we have good news: it's already over. On the basis of the documentation provided, we have updated the cost estimate. We already have a full estimate. The total amount allocated to this investment is PLN 110 million. The first share is the amount of the RPO, the second part being the contribution of President Opole. We are in the process of negotiating an agreement with President Opole, and we are also conducting a dialogue with the marshal. Both of these processes are on their way to an end, which allows us to believe that the investment will be completed within the time limit indicated in the RPO. As regards Odrzański's investments, I will briefly talk about them because of the time limitation. The remaining elements will be presented in writing. A total of 69 investments are planned. Most of them are already in progress. The total amount of 840 million is allocated to this process this year. Maybe I'll start from the top - the Gliwice Canal. Two locks have already been completed, two will be completed this year, another two - by the end of 2022. Scanned section - it is primarily about modernising jazz and mucus, financed mainly by the Operational Programme The measles flowing freely - above all, it is about regulatory buildings, fast spurs. Most things are in the design phase, some are in the implementation phase. Border measles - an extremely important episode. Above all, it is about raising bridges, both road bridges and railway bridges. All these bridges will be raised to a height of 5,25, i.e. to the fifth class of navigability, which is our commitment on the basis of AGN. So Krosno, Kostrzyn and Regalica, height 5.25. Additional activities include deepening Lake Dąbie, which is important for navigability, and two extremely important investments - water grades Lubież and Ścinawa. In the coming days the contractor of both these investments will be selected. Let me remind you that happily after many years, work on Malczyce's water grade was completed. Now we're doing the energy part. As regards further investments, Mr Koźle also asked about Kędzierzyn-Koźle. These are mostly flood control tasks, shaft repairs, but I think this investment is well known. There's a total of 76 million for shaft repairs. As far as other investments are concerned, mainly for navigability, this is the repair of the syphon of the Kłodnica river. The first stage has been completed. There's 1,300,000 in there. The second stage will be completed and this is the sum of 1600 thousand. If I remember correctly, it's 2022. As far as Odra and the restoration of navigability are concerned, the project is carried out together with the port of Szczecin - Świnoujście, the port of Szczecin - Świnoujście itself prepares various stages of this task, and has already completed the stage of numerical modelling. The location of the different water grades has been prepared, the scope of modernization of existing water grades. Other tasks will be transferred in the first quarter of 2020. At the same time, together with the WYG, we carry out a transport analysis which will show us the size of potential transhipments, the shipping potential of the Oder, the location of potential terminals and the entire accompanying infrastructure. This work will be completed in November. The construction of icebreakers is also extremely important for Oder's navigability. At this moment for Oder we are building two new, modern icebreakers, which will significantly improve this function of sailing on the river Oder. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Mazurek, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry, I had to get here. The government jury is full and I had to get through here from my fellow ministers. There was such an opinion during the debate about clean air that there was no money. I would like to say to you that, of course, money is already being paid, money is secured, it is, as was said in yesterday's debate, paid from national funds. This money goes to the Poles. They replace boilers, install renewable energy sources, install heat pumps, and thermomodernize them. We have PLN 1.5 billion located. About 65 grand. The proposals that have been submitted, that is ten times more about what we have done in environmental protection over the last three years than our predecessors have done, because in fact, all the programs that we were talking about yesterday, Prosumer or programs that are praised by opposition representatives, are programs that are counted in thousands. We are talking about tens of thousands, and really after these few months of this program, our first words are that this number will grow, just as it has grown in the case of environmental programs, when this program will spread. There's also been a charge that we're transferring responsibilities to local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the regime of the Republic of Poland. Self-governments have their responsibility. If there is a plan for certain destruction of this area, we certainly do not agree with it, because local governments also have responsibilities in terms of air quality and they must and will do so, of course, with the full support of the government, so that Poles live and breathe better air quality. Here came another aspect, related to commercials, which are directly related to the issue of reducing the number of disposable bags commonly used in trade, once handed out for free. Of course, this is a problem that the previous Minister of Environment, Minister Ostapiuk, Deputy Minister of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, spoke about. Unfortunately, then there was no courage to fight the plastic. Today, the strategy to move away from disposable plastics is a common European document, which we will implement, but also reduce the number of bags and introduce this fee. It's no tax, ladies and gentlemen, it's a fee. Taxes are inevitable. Recycling charges can be avoided. Just take a reusable bag with you. But what have some traders done? They gave these bags 1 mm thicker, running away from this charge, and in fact these bags were also not of such quality that they could be used repeatedly. So all these environmental activities, also related to the departure from this single use, are sometimes repeated, even in opposition programs, but to look here for holes in the whole, this is raised as part of an unjustified inconsistency. I don't get it, and it's hard for me to take it. Here we will certainly be together, as a whole government, making sure that air quality improves, so that what concerns environmental quality also improves. We've got the right resources for this and they're running. The Clean Air programme is the first comprehensive programme for all Poles. Proposals can be submitted via the Internet, but it is also implemented differently than yesterday's opposition representatives said... This is not a central programme, it is a programme implemented regionally, as well as in cooperation with local governments, because local governments, more than 600 local governments expressed such interest to join the distribution of this program, to reach Poles. And to say that there is no money is to discourage Poles from using this program. If we are talking about the environment, if we are talking about the quality of life of Poles, can we say such false, so far-reaching lies? That is why I have decided to correct and clarify that these measures are being distributed. At the same time, Commissioner, and before that, the president of the Regional Environmental Fund in Katowice may not know, but it is from Silesia that we have the most applications for the "Clean Air" programme. It is where you were president that this problem is so big that there really is the most of these proposals. But also these answers of citizens are so numerous not by chance, because the Minister of the Environment has actually reached every municipality in Poland with this information. There were meetings, conversations, you could get comprehensive information about it. We will carry out this program with the full consequence of the fact that some may be looking at it jealously. But don't be jealous, join in, promote this program and encourage more and more Poles to join this program. There was also a German thread... Although I must say that we have seen some of our fellow Members in the company of our partners in Germany, whether at the embassy or on other occasions. But, ladies and gentlemen, of course, air pollution is a cross-border problem, which is why we have launched mathematical moderation, and we have stations that investigate this cross-border movement of air pollution. But of course it was German trash. When it comes to waste that went illegally to Poland, we turn back this waste, just as we turned back the waste that came to Poland from the UK. And when it comes to these wastes that have been illegally placed in various gravel pits and other areas for many years, we also clean them up. But we're also cleaning up the mess he was in the Environmental Protection Inspection. The Environmental Protection Inspection operates 7 days a week. We've got extra jobs. And what happened then? The environmental inspection money was cut and these funds were transferred to other destinations, but not to those related to the Environmental Protection Inspection, which is currently working to ensure that those wastes which are directly directed from the UK under the pretext of transporting raw materials are then sent back from Poland. And I'm sure we'll continue. As far as concrete actions are concerned, it was also possible to punish those who carried waste from Małopolska to Silesia and illegally abandoned it. Today we have a court order that convicted this person for this kind of practice. And there will be further action. After the intervention of the Prime Minister, also after the integration of the services, not only the environmental services, but also the others that operate within the state, we really do not refuse from the prosecution. There have been times when the prosecution's proceedings have been resolved, but now every case is dealt with individually. In cooperation with the Environmental Protection Inspection, with the National Tax Administration, for which I thank you very much, such actions are being undertaken. Now that I am at the National Tax Administration, at the Minister of Finance, I would like to say that, in addition to this programme, clean air, which reaches the citizens directly, I can also mention an additional instrument, namely a thermomodernization relief of up to 53 thousand. zł. This is another tool that was not there, and which is due to the consistent implementation of what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was talking about, talking about the civilization challenge. And you can mock it, you can mock what concerns the health of Poles, but the more the bell is empty, the louder it is. We want to implement this consistently, and I hope that if citizens confirm it, we will also do it in the next term and citizens will be able to benefit from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Kopeć, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been many words and questions here about issues related to the financing of education, education subsidies. Of course, many claims have also been made that are difficult to connect with the facts. On the other hand, there is also an important starting point in all of this, where we were in 2015. This starting point is, on the one hand, a school where teachers were fired, because over the years of the PO-PSL coalition, several tens of thousands of teachers lost their jobs, several thousand schools were closed, and the last increase was seen by teachers in 2012. That was the starting point. In order to change this, specific measures had to be taken, followed by certain financial measures. There were also words about the program base. If we look at the 2012 programming base, I would like to remind you that at the end of the educational stage of the 3rd primary school in computer classes, the student was to use the mouse and keyboard. And this is the modern programming base of the previous team: mouse and keyboard. Today we know that a large proportion of children of this age are not connected at all to the boarding house via a desktop computer or even a laptop. And, of course, all the actions that have been taken had to be financed. It is worth noting that at least at this point the number of hours of computer science has been increased by 70 hours. So let's see, the student doesn't have a computer class, but computer science from grade I primary school to grade III general school. That means she's not really starting to learn the basics of computer support, but really... These are logic games, this is a question of algorithms, this is what is really needed in today's world, and this is what we start from the very beginning. This also applies to a very modern change in the software base of foreign languages. If we burned this point, it also required further actions, which will actually be visible after 1 September 2019. It's a change of high school in general. In high school there was actually no history, because, as we remember, the history in high school in general lasted through the first class and began in 1918. If we look at key objects that show that we are able to compete with the world, so four natural objects: chemistry, physics, biology and geography, they were really only in the first class. If we look at today's exam of knowledge about society, something that is simply needed, the combination of the third and the fourth stages of education was that the student had WOS most often in the first grade of general education. Today's SAT scores are about 26%. And that's the challenge we've faced, but there must have been some measures behind it. And really these measures, if we compare it to 2015 and put it to 2018, that is an increase of 4.3 billion PLN. If we compare this to 2019, this is an increase of 7 billion PLN. But looking at spending and how education is financed, of course it is not just educational subsidies, because there are a number of government programs. In other words, it's a government program, for example, an active table - in 2018 it's over PLN 51 million. This is a question of the program "Good start," that is the issue of the National Education Network, these are the issues of creating IT Championship Centres. And these are actions taken by very different resorts, i.e. the family resort or the Ministry of Digitalization. So these are actions that are not silo, which are undertaken complementaryly by the government. This applies to the support of pupils and parents in the form of a good start or broadband Internet in each school within the National Education Network, but this is also another form of social support, for example through school canteens. This is the whole package of activities: mIegitimation, e-registration, this is the issue of building an educational platform, e-resources, e-materials, e-handbooks, and therefore the construction of a really modern school. This also applies to other activities, such as those relating to teachers, because the value of wages occurred in 2017 and an increase of 5,35% - in 2018. And if we were to translate this into subsidies in 2018, it would mean an increase of 2.8%. However, of course, this process of raising teachers' wages did not end with the valorization and the first increase. He goes on. The next stage was the 5% increase in 2019 and the next, which will be from September 2019, by 9.6%. As a result, the salary increase for teachers will exceed 21%. Of course, this also has a specific dimension, because for a diplomat, and this is 60% in terms of the minimum rate, that is 668 PLN, so-called. the average is over PLN 1000. So these are actions, as I said, which have been taken, but they also concern teachers at the start, because they are needed, because also the number of teachers, the number of teachers, the number of teaching jobs increased by more than 20,000. So it's called. Program for start, or 1000 PLN. This is also support for educators, because we appreciate the efforts of teachers, efforts of educators, that is the minimum rate of 300 PLN for educators. These are also an increase in the number of hours at the director's disposal so that students have more extracurricular activities. All these actions are, of course, planned. They've got the right budget records or they're gonna have the right records. Looking at the discussion that was here, and the questions about subsidies, it is also worth referring to the situation of local governments, because in fact the revenue of local government has increased, i.e. in 2018 the revenue of local government units in relation to 2017 increased by 19 968 million, i.e. by 9.6%. This has its consequences, of course, because if we compare this revenue with the expenditure and revenue of local government units and expenditure on education, we will see that the current expenditure of the JST in departments 801 and 854 excluding kindergartens and delivering pupils, because these are the tasks of the self-government... Total expenditure shows that there was simply a change in the indicator and this ratio was lower than in the previous year by 1.4 points. This means that educational expenditure accounts for an increasingly smaller share of expenditure in local government budgets, in other words, we need to look at it as a whole, referring to education subsidies, and to government programmes that support education, and to the expenditure and revenue of local governments. Looking at the questions raised by the government's support for the changes in education reform, we remember that the first stage of the change concerned the transformation of secondary schools into primary schools, and here such support was provided, even by a division of 0.4% the provision of subsidies. This involved the funding of school equipment and teaching aids, the classroom in secondary schools transformed into primary schools - 3394 thousand.; co-financing of furniture study rooms necessary for the admission of students from junior years in junior high schools transformed into primary schools - 6877 thousand.; funding of ongoing renovations, sanitary facilities in secondary schools transformed into primary schools - 266 thousand.; co-financing of school equipment and teaching aids for teaching rooms in newly built facilities - 20 831,000.; funding of school equipment and teaching aid in schools starting in the professions - that is 3010 thousand. zł. Thus, these activities were linked to the first stage of the reform being implemented and the preparation of transformed secondary schools for the establishment of 8-year primary schools. On the other hand, actions that relate to the next stage, i.e. the creation of a 4-year high school and a 5-year-old technique, were planned to change the education subsidy algorithm for 2019. These schools will start operating on 1 September and therefore the appropriate measures under the algorithm have been transferred to the powiats. It is an amount of 890 million, of which 50 million per boarding house. Such actions were undertaken and implemented within the framework of the 2018 budget and educational subsidy, in other words, planned actions which resulted from the need to rebuild the Polish school and provide adequate funding and support for these activities. As I said, this next stage of the change, which took place in Polish schools, concerns the reconstruction of high school, i.e. the creation of a 4-year high school and a 5-year-old technical school, as well as the industry school. This transformation creates a school, which is expensive, a vocational school, where after the first stage, i.e. after a school in which the school lasts 3 years, you can continue to study and finish it with your Matura. Thus, the technical and industrial school activities are an important element that changes our reality and must meet the demands of the economy, a modern state. This has been done. All this is linked to the reconstruction of other elements of this system, of course, the means are also behind it. This applies, for example, to the examination system, to vocational examinations, but also to the transformation of exams, which have so far been test exams, and now, above all, to include the main element of open tasks, at the same time the student can reach many solutions. This, of course, also required and requires investment, because we are not dealing with a test that checks the reader. It is the examiner who checks those statements of the students, which, of course, has financial implications, and for this also within the resources that have been allocated to the Central Examination Board, the funds have emerged. And the last thing that goes hand in hand with what has been raised here is beyond the budget debate, but it has fallen and needs some correction. This applies to recruitment in the current year. Graduates of primary school, 8th grade, and graduates of junior high school participate in this recruitment. In preparation for recruitment, local authorities prepared over 100,000. more places than there are graduates. Of course, it is worth paying attention to issues that are important and which are linked to the method of recruitment, especially in large cities. Self-governments, when planning such activities, had to take into account several factors, i.e. demographics, the fact that there is a 4-year-old high school, a 5-year-old tech school, that is, science takes longer. When planning the network, they also had to take into account the number of students who came from outside a given local government unit, i.e. the district, because the powiats run secondary schools. They also had to take into account the division, simulations of pupils choosing general secondary school, technique and industry school. What's really important about all this is the percentage. If we looked at the first stage of recruitment at the number of students not received a year ago and this year, it was 19.51% in Bydgoszcz last year. , this year - 13,65%. If we look at the situation also in other cities, in Katowice in 2018, it was 4.12, this year - 3.49, in other words, these results are [[♪ The bell ♪]] comparable. We also have big cities that may not have dealt with it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u147	Thank you very much. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u148	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a number of questions have been asked in the context of the functioning of the Justice Fund and a number of issues need to be clarified. On the other hand, I do not hide that I was wondering why there is so much hostility, so many attacks from your side as an opposition to the Ministry of Justice, where it is implemented, among others. The Justice Fund. I think it's because of the helplessness of the opposition, envy and jealousy, but most of all because of the helplessness. You can only watch from the side how this fund is supported by very important, very good initiatives expected for many years, social initiatives, but you are attacking. The laws have been changed, the whole mechanism has been changed. At the moment, 80% of people work in Poland. prisoners from those who can work. What does this have to do with the Justice Fund? That part of their remuneration is addressed to the Justice Fund. How many prisoners worked in the time of their predecessors? Well, you'll have to check it out. The rules have been amended in relation to the issue of origin. This fund today has a lot of resources and with its resources very good tasks are carried out. I must say that you have no sense of connection with reality, because if you are attacking the issue of support from these measures, among other things. Volunteer firefighters, I wonder why you don't like firefighters so much, or maybe yourself. Today there were among others. questions in the context of measures addressed to voluntary firefighters. [[Voice from the hall: Locals know what you like.]] Mr Marshal, can you draw the attention of the Member? I'm saying, that's the helplessness.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u149	The Member has confused the corridor with the Seym. Either sit down and behave calmly, or move to the cocksuckers. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you, Marshal. I'm asking why you don't like firefighters so much. Why are you attacking this direction of support for volunteer firefighters? We have supported, ladies and gentlemen, many thousands of units. I dare say that in every district, also in the district from which you come, 2,206 agreements were signed with municipalities and cities on the rights of the county. We have allocated about PLN 108 million. For what? Ladies and gentlemen, on defibrillators, on special medical aid bags, special stretcher, special equipment for firefighters, who are the first to appear, most often from these volunteer firefighters, on the scene of accidents, to save lives, and you are attacking this program. I don't get it. You are attacking the children's vest program, because it is from this Justice Fund, ladies and gentlemen, that we have directed 3 028 477 vests to 14 231 schools in Poland. I'm sure there are schools around you, but you're attacking them. You say it's not good, yes, on the committees. Today I will also have to explain myself in 3 hours at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Now I answer your questions, it is your Members who play the show on this stage, they talk about the Justice Fund, and it is from this fund that we support, among others. To keep the kids safe on the streets... [[By their companies.]] And that's what it shows how you don't understand this fund. It was an open contest. Everyone had the right to enter this competition. Everyone, including you. Don't attack it. These vests were directed to the children. If the question is, what were the administrative costs of this project, then yes, they were: 1.18% , slightly over 1% on a possible 15% . By the way. There are actors involved, all kinds of important people involved. I've seen the kids enjoy getting their vest, but you don't like it. It bothers you because we shouldn't support it. I don't get it. You're asking for a network of help, a network of centers. These regional centres have already been established 51. 283 local points. Why? So that people have information about what to do if they're at risk of crime. or if they're victims of crime. Is it wrong that we pay e.g. For an adult's clinic? From this fund, we direct money to such centres. Ladies and gentlemen! You're asking about the Lux Veritatis Foundation why the money was earmarked for specific tasks. Well, that's how it was built, among other things. The portal at the address of the Warning. online. Project implemented until the end of December 2018. A web portal dedicated to security and countering the causes of crime was created. Is that a bad thing? There are threats to cybercrime, social, environmental and health issues. You don't like it. You pull out some pieces and you just mock them, but you don't understand the ideas at all. Asking about the Visegrad Foundation and the banquet for the Law Forum for Development. Why this banquet was and why it was for that kind of money. Only that if you looked closely at the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit, you would see that there were no reservations about the costs of the conference. It has not been proven in any way that the amounts differ from market conditions. You would like to sit over the Vistula, light a fire, invite guests and stick sausage on the stick and fry it. You can, but this is a 3-day conference, for 1,000 people. Well, I guess it's okay that these people can use the banquet, lunch, too. [[Poverty, crap, no.]] Nothing like that ever happened. In addition, the authorising officer provided explanations containing data from price lists confirming the appropriateness of the costs incurred. There were no charges here. After all, today the President even answered one of the Members' questions as to whether there would be a notice to the prosecutor's office. No. Why? Well, because the laws weren't broken, but you don't like it. You ask why bush organizations get money from this fund. What does it mean to organize bushes? If it meets the formal and substantive requirements, it has the right to receive funds. In your day, the funds were directed to very different foundations, associations. I could even replace it. Here are the names, if you want, associated sometimes with you. That's the brutal truth. Therefore, by responding to these allegations that have been brought here: I cannot understand the opposition, but I understand why in the polls you are simply at this level and not at the level of others. You don't understand society. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Michalkiewicz will now speak at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to answer two questions which you have addressed to the Minister of Finance, but which also concern the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. One question was Mrs Isabella Leszczyna on the indicators of extreme poverty, which, according to the CSO, increased in 2018. I would like to make it clear that the scale of the increase in extreme poverty estimated by the CSO from 4.3 to 5.4% between 2017 and 2018 is relatively small and these results should be interpreted with caution. With regard to this data, it is also worth remembering that the extent of extreme poverty is relatively small in our society, as it concerns about 5% population and GUS estimates are based on a very small sample. Moreover, CSO analysts report that the assessment of the extent of extreme poverty had an impact on the existing poverty thresholds. Last year there was an increase in the level of minimum existence by 3% year by year and it was higher than would have been the result of the overall inflation rate. Let me remind you that inflation was only 1.6%. It should also be borne in mind that the average household income situation improved in 2018. The average monthly disposable income per person amounted to PLN 1693 in 2018 and was really higher by 4.3% than the income of 2017. Lower expenditure dynamics, on the basis of which the measure of extreme poverty is calculated, may indicate that some farms provide part of their income, for example. for savings instead of current expenses. In 2018, the share of expenditure in the disposable income amounted to 70.1%. This is the lowest recorded share in years. For example, in 2015 expenditure ate 78.7% household income. That's what each farm had to spend on average on current expenses. The second question I would like to answer is Mrs Genowefa Tokarska's question about the reasons for not using the funds for Of course, all the funds we had at our disposal in the budget reserve for the creation of "Senior+" were contracted in competitions. On the other hand, many local authorities have resigned, many municipalities have resigned from the allocated funds due to the increasing public procurement procedures, the lack of possibility to provide their own contribution and the lack of the possibility of obtaining adequate seats for the location of Senior+. I will also remind you that by the end of 2018 there were 498 senior+ facilities in Poland. This year it is planned to create 320 new ones. Of course, these are also senior+ daily homes, and senior+ clubs. If we think about the fact that by the end of 2018 there were these facilities 498 and 320 will rise this year, it is difficult to say here that this programme is not implemented or that needs are much greater. We satisfy needs. On the other hand, the fact that municipalities give up their financial resources is the problem of municipalities, not the problem of the ministry not being open to the creation and financing of clubs and day-to-day senior seniors' homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u151	Thank you very much. Now I would like to hear from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr. Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a little regrettable that Members asking a question concerning Parts 32, 33, 35 cannot answer, because there have been some rather important understatements, understatements, and this information should sound very clearly. As far as scientific institutes are concerned, the programmes referred to, i.e. actions for the competitiveness and innovation of the gardening sector, as well as the creation of scientific foundations for biological progress and the conservation of plant gene resources, implemented by the Gardening Institute and by the Plant Cultivation and Acclimatisation Institute, this year funding is almost 6 million in terms of the first programme and the second in terms of almost 7.5 million in terms of the first programme. There are no risks to continuity in the activities of these institutes. In the following years the planned funding for these two programmes is over PLN 21 million. So I do not know why you are so concerned about the activities of these two institutes. As regards the issue of measures for water companies to finance current activities, I would like to remind you that in 2018, as well as in 2019 this funding amounts to PLN 40 million, and by 2015 the state budget for current water companies was not a penny, it was simply zero. And it's this government that's funding water companies. In 2020, according to budgetary projections, the budget limits will also be 40 million PLN. He also asked about irrigation, said that there was no means. But this year this government will be responsible for recruitment through the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in the framework of the modernisation of agricultural holdings worth EUR 100 million, i.e. over PLN 400 million. This is a typical effect for drought, the construction of small retention devices. These include the expenditure incurred in water shots for irrigation, the purchase of new water extraction machines and equipment, the purchase of water storage equipment, the purchase of water distribution equipment and the installation of irrigation systems. 100,000. zł co-financing for each beneficiary, for each agricultural holding. This recruitment will be carried out this year, as I said earlier. More than PLN 400 million is earmarked for this action. Mr Ajchler mentioned the drought in 2018, that it was extreme drought, incomparable with previous years. I would just like to remind you that in the state budget in 2018 there was PLN 2.3 billion for this purpose, a record sum. For example, the Federal Republic of Germany spent slightly more than PLN 500 million on this purpose, converting into Polish currency. It's a comparative scale. The funds that were earmarked for aid to Polish farmers in 2018 - for comparison we have Germany - were in the amount of more than PLN 2 billion. What did the predecessors do in 2018? They began to estimate drought comparable to 2018, looking at droughts called droughts. Hydrological. They didn't start to estimate it until after the harvest. They allocated 800 million PLN for this purpose and spent only 471 million PLN, less than 0.5 billion PLN. And that's the scale of the comparison. We added up to 1 ha to the highest stakes of 1 thousand. zł, another rate was 500 zł, the predecessors paid up to 1 ha to a maximum of 500 zł. That is precisely the difference and such a scale of comparison, so the Member says that in the so-called. The Polish government could afford to pay for the drought. If the Polish government is in need of farmers, it must be able to simply compensate for the losses resulting from the reduction of income for Polish farmers. Once again, Commissioner, she refers to the issue of money for the Veterinary Inspection. It is true that the Member is a veterinarian, but somehow he forgets the basics. Once again, it refers to veterinary posts in relation to the eradication of African swine fever. I would like to remind you that in 2018 63 posts were assigned in the five most endangered African swine fever provinces. In 2019 there are additional 24 posts plus 65 posts for exports of food to the American market, i.e. U.S.A. I would also like to remind you that in 2019 20 million PLN was allocated to increase salaries in veterinary medicine. It is an average of PLN 630 for every post in the district veterinary inspection, the voivodship veterinary inspection or the Chief Veterinary Inspectors, where the remuneration was PLN 3329 in the district inspections, in the voivodship inspections - PLN 3340 and in the main inspector - PLN 4456. And the consequence of that next year... This will generate financial costs of over PLN 60 million, also for the implementation and continuation of these increases for veterinary purposes. So I would like to reassure the Member as regards the state veterinary inspection. A comparison of year to year shows that in 2018 at this time we had 60 ASF outbreaks, and this year we have 21 of them, so there is a scale of comparison. These mechanisms implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture have resulted in a reduction in morbidity. This risk of morbidity is significantly lower and has therefore gone well with regard to the state veterinary inspection. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No bravo. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u153	Thank you very much. Now I'll have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr. Sebastian Skuza.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! By addressing the questions of Maria Nowak, I would like to answer the first question, that the failure to plan the subjective grant in the executive agencies of the National Centre for Research and Development and the National Science Centre came from savings. With regard to the NCBR, it should be noted that the NCBR has implemented the EU technical assistance programme very well. If any measures could be eligible, they were first eligible for the cost of qualified technical assistance. In the NCN area there have been savings on lower costs for expert assessment of applications, i.e. those impersonal costs have decreased. As regards the issue of success rates in grants, I think that here you can refer not to the whole, but to individual calls or competitions. And so on. in the National Science Centre in the spring recruitment for the Opus - this is a competition for research projects, including the financing or development of research equipment - the number of applications submitted is 1838 for over 1600 million, while 359 applications for the amount of PLN 358 million were selected for funding, i.e. here we can talk about the success rate of about 19 In the competition, 355 applications for 34 800 thousand were submitted for the winter call - Etiuda is a competition for doctoral scholarships. Success indicator: 147 grants were allocated for 14 871,000. zł. So here this indicator was about 40%. I would also like to stress that, with regard to the award of grants, it is important here not only the amount of resources available to executive agencies but also the quality of applications submitted by potential beneficiaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u155	Thank you very much. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u156	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, very brief explanations. only in the three subjects that fell during the budget debate. Firstly, Mr Sławomir Piechota pointed to the allegedly falling number of people with disabilities employed in the civil service. I have the overwhelming impression that Mr Piechota misinterpreted the data available to him because according to the data provided to me between 2017 and 2018 the number of people with disabilities in the civil service increased by exactly 726 people. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, referring to the income in part 20: The economy, pointed out as a negative circumstance that because of the takeover by the President of the Council of Ministers of the supervision of the seven companies of the Treasury, the total amount of income has fallen in this part. He has fallen in part 20, but has increased in part 16, in principle. I've already translated it in the Public Finance Committee. In fact, these are transfers between budgetary parts in the same budget. And the last thing that was raised in the NIK paper was the Western Institute. I would just like to say from this tribune that, as far as the Western Institute is concerned, we have completed all the follow-up requests that the Supreme Audit Chamber has recommended for us. Some really with a heavy heart, ladies and gentlemen and Members, as the NIK pointed out to us that the institute should even apply very strict principles of business economy to this social organisation, which has dealt with the support of those who are socially excluded. If we didn't want to, we had to follow these instructions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Several issues regarding the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget of the Ministry of National Defence was implemented last year, as Mr Cymanski rightly pointed out, at 2.02% gross domestic product. And it's not true what opposition politicians said, that the Ministry of National Defence is spending funds in the form of advances in an excessive way. Ladies and gentlemen! The laws clearly state: today we can advance the weapons we buy within the home arms industry, as well as outside the country, to 30% its values, and so it is indeed. This means that we are modernising the Polish army, buying equipment for its equipment - modern equipment for the equipment of the Polish army. In 2018, in the form of advances, almost PLN 17 billion was spent from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Just be aware that in this amount more than PLN 10 billion are funds that have been spent under the FMC procedure, i.e. intergovernmental agreements, e.g. with the Government of the United States, during the purchase or execution of the program of the Vistula and during the purchase of Patriot rocket batteries. These are expensive expenditures that consume a lot of money and, of course, are carried out in the prepayment formula, so there is absolutely nothing unusual about it. As far as budgetary issues are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this is how we implement the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, as it is enshrined in the Budget Act. We are also fulfilling our alliance commitments, as Poland is today only one of the seven countries of the North Atlantic Alliance, which is fulfilling the findings of the NATO summit in Newport, which were made to ensure that the Member States are committed to spending just 2% on defence. gross domestic product. Unfortunately, this cannot be said about our predecessors from the Government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, who, for practically 8 years of governance, had only come close to this level in 2015. Over the years, over PLN 12 billion have been lost irreversibly from the area of national defence. This is one big scandal, because if these funds, these over 12 billion, were spent as intended, we would stand in a completely different place when it comes to technical modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Mikołaj Wild, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to address the questions about Transport. The majority of the questions concerned the expansion of roads. One question was the rail network, and that's the question I'm gonna leave for last. First question: Why is the government building fewer highways? This calls for the current context. 82% completed the motorway network, i.e. 1638 km from 2000 km, which were provided in the construction program of roads and motorways. This number of kilometers will increase by nearly 100, as the extension of the program is already underway, and this is related to the construction of the Central Communication Port and the large bypass of Warsaw. However, this does not change the fact that the number of motorways we have allows us to recognise that we are very close to the target. The situation is different with regard to expressways. Here, only 39% of the plans have been implemented, and this is where the investment effort should be directed. And that's what's happening now. Another question: Why are road contracts broken down and what happens next? Again, I'm going to give you some data that will allow us to find ourselves in reality and see that this question is based on a somewhat inappropriate assumption. Firstly, 58 tasks worth PLN 28 billion have been carried out, 108 actions worth a total of 54 billion. Indeed, in the case of certain works, the contractor fails to comply with its contractual obligations and in a situation where these contracts are terminated, the matter becomes a media matter, is the subject of a political debate. We're, you know, used to it. On the other hand, we will not shrink back from this kind of blackmail and we will not tolerate it, and I would like it to sound strongly, and we will not tolerate breaking commitments. We can be understanding, but - I'm sorry for the colloquialism - we're not gonna be losers. At the same time, I would like to point out that so far contracts have been terminated for nine contracts, which is not much more than 5%. all the tasks performed and carried out. In the previous perspective, 14 contracts were terminated. Everywhere contracts are terminated, we take steps that allow investment to be carried out as quickly as possible. An example of this is the situation, which is the subject of the next question, questions about the S5 expressway in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. The question can be brought to the content: Why is nothing happening on some episodes? In the case of three sections, we were forced to terminate contracts with the contractor who had failed to implement these contracts. They were sections: White Mud - Szubin, New Dreams - Dworszko and Dworszo - Aleksandrowo. We are currently conducting inventory there and in the near future we will announce a tender for the completion of this significant investment. The next question concerns the S1 route: What measures have been secured? I am pleased to inform you that PLN 5.5 billion has been secured for the construction of the S1 expressway. The next question concerns the S12 road in Chelm's area. Once again, I would like to inform you that the road construction programme has secured funds for the implementation of the Chełm ring road and the tender for this ring road will be launched in the third quarter of 2020. Just as a reminder, I would like to stress that this task was not foreseen to be carried out and only a change of programme by this government provided the opportunity to carry out this project. The next question concerns the Zator and Chelm ring road. Here, too, we are dealing with a situation which quite often occurs recently in the case of infrastructure contracts, i.e. tenders that are submitted exceed significantly the costs. Industry experts are saying that companies that did not estimate the market development that they had submitted in previous contracts, are now trying to recover from this - knowing that the state must ultimately build infrastructure, such entities expect that ultimately we will almost infinitely increase these limits. I also wanted to say, "That's not gonna happen. We will not respect the situation in which the market becomes the market of the main contractors raising the desired, expected remuneration endlessly. Another question, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, concerning the lack of investment in Silesia. And again, the simplest answer is to give concrete facts. The road construction programme secures funds for both the previously mentioned S1 route and the surroundings of Hungary's Górka. I would like to remind you that it is also at the initiative of this government that the Beskydy Integration Road will be built as an express road. Finally, local government roads, i.e. a programme for which PLN 6 billion will be transferred from the Local Roads Fund - it is also a programme from which local governments can benefit. Now I come to the question about the railroad, Mrs Hennig-Kloski's questions, when the Konin-Warsaw railway investment will be completed, due to the fact that the travel time has increased by half an hour. I think it is very good that this question has been asked because it shows what challenges we face in trying to build infrastructure in Poland. This project, the framework of this project, was adopted in 2012. This was to be the modernisation of the freight line, the modernisation of the freight line, in the context of building a completely new route that will connect Warsaw with Poznan. As we know, the construction of the new route Warsaw - Poznań, passenger, will take place within the framework of the programme concerning the Central Communication Port, while until then this project, worth PLN 2 billion, will focus, in accordance with our agreement, which we signed in the framework of relations with the European Union, on lowering parameters for freight traffic. As a result, freight trains will be able to travel on this route at a speed of 120 km/h. It seems to me that this is a very good example to realise that the lack of a systematic approach to rail investments was linked - on purpose I am speaking here in the past - with inconveniences for passengers and with a small profit: heavy nuisances and low profit. It's over. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u161	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Robaczyński will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There were relatively few questions to the Ministry of Finance, which is not surprising, because the overall results of the budget and the entire public finance sector are among the best for many years. This is the highest rate of GDP growth in 11 years, the lowest deficit in the public finance sector since it was measured at all, the reduction in debt-to-GDP ratio and the lowest deficit in the state budget since 1998. These parameters or these figures speak for themselves, and therefore it is not surprising that there were no special allegations about the budget as such or about its execution by the Minister of Finance. There was one specific question I'd like to answer right away. To what extent were subsidies made to political parties? That was 51,973,000. zł and this was 100% The plan. There were such general questions as to whether the charges relating above all to debt were rising nominally. Mr Cymanski asked me to explain this somehow. There's not much to explain here. In fact, in all countries or in most countries, this debt is growing nominally. In particular, it is in countries that are on achievements, just as we are all the time. There wouldn't be all the things you're asking the Minister of Infrastructure or the Minister of Health if there was no debt. The important thing is that the debt-to-GDP ratio is falling, and this has always been repeated by all the finance ministers who spoke from this speaker, regardless of which party they were from. The important thing is whether this debt that is indebted can be handled and whether it is safe and stable - whether it is safe for public finances and therefore whether these finances are stable. The fact that this debt-to-GDP ratio is falling indicates precisely that public finances are stable. Of course, the good economic situation you all talked about was helpful, and of course the activities of the Ministry of Finance and the National Tax Administration in the area of tax sealing, above all the tax on goods and services. This has resulted in an increase in the revenue of the state budget and has allowed the debt-to-GDP ratio to be reduced while at the same time fulfilling the tasks that the ministers have already talked about here. This is really important for public finances, not how much debt nominally grows. Every year, state spending is increasing, but as I said, the debt-to-GDP ratio is decreasing and the deficit of the public finance sector has also decreased - to an unprecedented level, i.e. up to 0.4% GDP. So much for answering questions. Very briefly. At the same time, I would like to thank you all very much for working in committees, especially in the Committee on Public Finance, but also in industry committees. I participated in all these meetings of the Committee on Public Finance. This is certainly a hard and long-term job and thank you very much for it. I'm requesting discharge from the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u163	Thank you very much. That concludes the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on discharge in the voting block. The Public Finance Commission proposes that the Sejm accept information about guarantees and guarantees granted in 2018 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the motion of the committee. I can't hear you objecting. I state that the Sejm took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2018. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 46 hours 14 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the law on value added tax and the Act on tax on goods and services and on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the law on value added tax and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints No 3681 and No 3661 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." As of 31 December 2018 (Print No 3491) together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development (Print No 3547). I ask the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Act on Special Economic Zones, which was introduced in the original version in 1994, was used to stimulate investment, increase investment size, encourage investors to invest in Poland, increase jobs. It generated 14 special economic zones, brought many good, positive, positive economic impacts. A new law entered into force last year. After the evaluation of the functioning of the zones, we prepared a new law that extended the scope of the zone privileges, making Poland the whole special economic zone. I therefore report to you on the functioning of this law in the year in which the new legislation entered into force. We can say that 2018 was characterised by a higher dynamic of parameters showing the effects of special economic zones in almost all areas, both in terms of investment expenditure, employment and new jobs created. In the case of investment investments, and these are probably the most interesting ones, and the number of new jobs in relation to 2017 exceeded 10%. At the same time, I would like to remind you that our amendment to this law has also taken into account the changing conditions. In the case of automation of production, industrial automation, the number of jobs can no longer be the basic parameter which is considered to grant zone permit, zone privilege, long-term tax credit, but precisely the quality of the investment, the size of this investment, the location of this investment and the link between investment and local R &amp; D infrastructure. At the end of 2018, the total area of 14 zones amounted to almost 23 000. ha and was larger than the previous year by 223 ha. At the end of 2018, the zones included areas located in 186 cities and 308 municipalities. The average level of zoning was 63%, while the diversity of land use, which has been observed for many years, is quite significant in the different zones. At the end of 2018 entrepreneurs had almost 2600 valid business permits in zones. More than 260 zone permits were issued in 2018 alone, i.e. slightly less than the previous year, in 2017, but this is the result, as I said, of changes to the rules on the operation of two support instruments, both old and new. But more important data, I think, which show how good this instrument is, relate primarily to the value of capital invested in zones. Investment outlays in 2018 were higher by more than 12.5 billion PLN compared to 2017, i.e. by more than 12%. The cumulative value of investments since the beginning of the operation of special zones is almost PLN 120 billion. Origin of investors. How did we get investors? In the ranking of the leading countries Poland is the first country. This is the Polish capital which invests in zones. This position was strengthened last year. 24% of investors are investors with Polish capital. Entrepreneurs with German, Dutch, Luxembourg and American capital are also at the forefront. The zone investors employed nearly 380 thousand in total at the end of last year. employees. Compared to last year, i.e. until 2017, employment increased by 26 thousand. employees, i.e. almost 7.5%. As far as the industry is concerned, the industrial structure of the investment has not changed significantly. The automotive industry, which accounts for almost 25% of the investment, has been the largest share for many years. Further locations include rubber and plastics manufacturers and entrepreneurs in the industry, and the next ones include metal products manufacturers. As far as infrastructure is concerned, over PLN 302 million was spent on infrastructure in 2018, i.e. 16 million more than in the previous year. The most funds, the largest part of this envelope was invested by the municipalities, then management companies, and the other important investor remained the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways. As regards the tax exemptions granted under the support instrument under the tax credit under the Zone Facility, in 2018 this amount amounted to more than PLN 13 million and was higher by PLN 2.5 million compared to the situation in 2017. Last year is another good year for the functioning of special economic zones, the number of investors. I will also remind you that recently published rankings, among others. The ranking of the Spectator confirmed Poland's dominant position in terms of investment attractiveness for foreign investors. We're in second place in the world. Last year also one of the Polish special zones, the Łódź Special Economic Zone, was considered the best in terms of investment for innovators. So that special zones use time, exploit their potential, generate very high added value in the economy, and the legislative changes we have adopted, and the even greater dynamics of those willing to benefit from this instrument, only confirms the validity of such a mechanism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u165	Thank you, Minister. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Now I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u166	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at its meeting on 26 June looked at the government document "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." Situation as of 31 December 2018 It would be difficult to say much more after the speech of the Minister, who presented all these key issues concerning the functioning of special economic zones. I'm just gonna add here, supplement it with information that about 25% The number of permits issued has decreased in relation to 2017, as the Minister pointed out and as we discussed in the committee meeting. This is the result of the introduction of a new support instrument under the Support Act, which is intended to replace special economic zones. According to that Act, the authorisation to operate in a special economic zone will only be possible until 15 June 2019. From the date of entry into force of the implementing acts to the Law on the Promotion of New Investments, i.e. Since 5 September 2018, Zone Managers issue decisions on support for companies planning investments across Poland. The implementation of the new support instrument modelled on the operation of special economic zones, but also applied outside their territory, has caused much less than in previous years to increase the area of zones. The changes in the area concerned only five zones and resulted in an increase of almost 230 hectares, i.e. less than 1%. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development recommends that the information presented be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u167	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to invite you to the speaker of Ewa Malik, who will present the position of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones as at 31 December 2018, contained in print No 3491. The above document contains information on the functioning of special economic zones with the following issues: the location and level of development of each zone, the effects of the zones taking into account the number of permits granted, the jobs created, the value and the industry structure of the investments made and the countries of origin of capital, as well as data on the activities of companies managing zones. Currently there are 14 special economic zones in Poland. Each zone is an administratively separate part of the territory of Poland, where entrepreneurs making new investments benefit from public aid in the form of tax exemptions in accordance with the principles fully compatible with European Union law in force on the date of the authorisation. The most important information on the activities of special economic zones in this document is the following. In 2018, the total area of zones increased by 222.9 ha, i.e. up to level 22 883.6 ha, and entrepreneurs had 2535 valid business permits in the zones. The accumulated value of the invested capital amounted to nearly PLN 119.2 billion, which means an increase of more than PLN 12.6 billion, or almost 12%. As of the end of 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and At the end of 2018, investors employed more than 379 thousand. employees. Compared to 2017, their number increased by 26 thousand, i.e. 7.4%. Invested in more than 60% in zones the percentage came from five countries, i.e. from Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the USA. The largest share in the cumulative value of the investment was by automotive companies - more than 24%, followed by rubber and plastics producers - almost 9,7% metal products - approx. 7,7% , and the woodworking industry, which also bounces out here. 302.4 billion PLN was spent on the construction of infrastructure in the zone, of which 28.1% of the expenditure of management companies in the special economic zone was spent on the construction of infrastructure in the zone. , and other expenditures were carried out by municipalities, media gestors and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. In conclusion, these figures and given that the dynamics of total employment investment and new jobs were positive and the value of investments and the number of new jobs increased by 10%, it can be concluded that the balance of the activities of the management of special economic zones is positive. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends that the High Sejm adopt information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u169	Thank you. The position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club will be presented by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Commission of the Economy recommends the adoption of the report on the activity of zones for 2018, but we treat government information as a starting point for the debate on the state of special economic zones in 2019 and the economic development of Poland. At first, it is worth thanking local authorities, which were largely responsible for special economic zones in 2018. Those words didn't come out, and they should have sounded. This positive balance is thanks to them. This role of local governments was to prepare investment parcels, build roads and search for investors. That's what they've done, so they deserve to be thanked. In September 2018, the Act on the Promotion of New Investments amended the operating rules of special economic zones. Zones operate throughout Poland. So the role of local governments has changed. So let's see how the landscape has changed and what the Prime Minister's announcements look like in the collision with reality. In 2017 in Krynica Prime Minister Morawiecki announced: All Poland will become a special economic zone. By adopting the Law on the Promotion of New Investments, in May 2018 the government announced: 134 thousand. new jobs in a few years, billions of PLN investments and hundreds of millions saved on taxes. And as usual in the case of the Prime Minister's promises, there is little left of the promise. The reports prepared by the experts clearly show that the districts in which entrepreneurs can invest and count on real tax reliefs are only 93. Thus, in Łódź, Opole and Wielkopolskie voivodships there are none of these 93 privileged districts. Even in the underprivileged Lesser Poland voivodship there are no jobs, where the investor received relief. The exception is only cities on the rights of the county: Nowy Sącz and Tarnów. All this should be imposed on data on foreign direct investment. The fact is that foreign investments in the first quarter of 2019 increased by 48% to 28.9 billion. Inflow of foreign direct investment to Poland has decreased significantly over the previous 2 years. Also inflow of bis in relation to GDP has been significantly lower since 2016 than in neighbouring countries, in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which confirms that Poland has become less attractive to foreign investors. This year the situation is beginning to turn around, because despite the increase in labour costs in Poland in other countries of the region, these costs were even higher. According to data published by the OECD, the value of foreign investments on the Vistula again increased by almost half in 2017 and Poland returned to the top ten in the European Union in terms of attracting foreign capital, but we were still far from the levels recorded under the Civic Platform. To sum up, we recommend the adoption of information on the implementation of a special act on special economic zones, treating it as a great contribution and success of local governments. Recommending this, we pay attention to another unfulfilled promise of Prime Minister Morawiecki. From now on, the Prime Minister should change the slogan "All Poland's Special Economic Zone" to "Only a quarter of Poland has become a special economic zone." Even the greatest effort of local governments will not change anything, will not encourage foreign investors to invest more until they are sure that the law is stable, that the state is predictable and law-abiding. But that's what the government hasn't understood so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u171	Thank you, Madam President. And I invite Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, who will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on print information No 3491 on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act, as of 31 December 2018. High Izbo! I do not hide that I have a dilemma and a certain doubt, and I hope that the Minister will settle this, because on p. 5 here is the information: In 2018 the Act of 10 May 2018 on the promotion of new investments entered into force, which introduced a new instrument to support entrepreneurs carrying out new investment projects throughout Poland in the form of income tax exemption. And now the most important sentence, which raises my doubts: this instrument was intended to replace special economic zones. And here's the first question: was this instrument supposed to replace or replace? Question two: Shouldn't this really be the state of the special economic zones by 9 May, the day before the Act on Supporting New Investments came into force? As a matter of fact, we're starting a new reality from May 10th. In other words, there should be two parts today. Firstly, until 9 May, what the economic zones looked like, and from 10 May, how the implementation of the Act of 10 May 2018 on the promotion of new investments looks like. Actually, that's what we should be talking about today. About new investments and what has been mentioned here and how it is implemented. Unfortunately, Minister, with all due respect, I regret to say that the work is not on the subject, because we cover the whole year 2018 and we are only talking about these old rules concerning economic zones. We do not have to develop, in terms of what the practical and effective implementation of the law on supporting new investments looks like. In short, Poland, Poland as a whole is one big economic zone. This, Minister, we just don't have. That's where I'm doubting it. I don't know, maybe I'm misanalyzing it, but I'd like to dispel it. Second thing. On 1 September, the second part of the education reform starts with a huge accent, which is very important for vocational education. I'm talking about it. I come back every year. That's my on-call subject, which I'll be returning to as far as I can. Well, we have the important ones, that's the page. 45, human resources management activities for industry and cluster development. Here we have such sub-sectors, including vocational education. I feel like it's branded again, I mean. There's an exhibition, a conference. There has been a lack of specific programming activities in these areas, which are moving towards this active cooperation with secondary education, innovation activities and support activities by giving workshops, practices and activities in this area. At the same time, it is about innovation. EU funds in this perspective are innovation. I don't see any innovation here. I have this dilemma, I have these doubts. I think the Minister will try to address them in his answers. I'm gonna go back to a few details that bothered me anyway. This project will be accepted by Kukiz15 because it's really what we got. I am not hiding, Minister, that we would expect more, because the new law was a new challenge. It'll be worth coming back to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u173	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club Polish People's Party - Coalition, the position will be presented by Mr Jacek Tomczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We have heard information from the President of the Council of Ministers about the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones together with the position of the committee. On behalf of the club PSL - Coalition Polska I would like to briefly refer to this information. There is no doubt that the decision to set up special economic zones in Poland was not only right, but also necessary. In 2018, the accumulated value of the capital invested in them to date amounted to almost PLN 120 billion and employment approached around 380 thousand. Interestingly, the capital invested in the zones in more than 60% came from countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, the USA and Poland. The largest share in the cumulative value of the investment is by companies from the automotive industry, i.e. Approximately 24%. In 2018, companies managing special economic zones allocated more than PLN 302 million to the construction of infrastructure in zones, including investments of management companies themselves amounted to 28%. The remaining part of the expenditure was largely the infrastructure prepared by municipalities, media gestors and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. This data is impressive. In addition, 2018 was characterised by a higher dynamic of variables describing the effect of special zones compared to 2017. The dynamics of investments, total employment and new jobs were positive, with the value of investments, the number of new jobs increased by more than 10%. These indicators have been achieved despite the introduction of a new support instrument under the Support for New Investment Act. Special economic zones play an important role in the national economy. Their positive economic impact seems obvious. This does not change the fact that new instruments and solutions should be sought for further economic activation and the collection of investment capital. PSL Club - Coalition Poland supports the adoption of information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones, together with the position of the committee, submitted to the High House in sejm printing No. 3491. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u175	Thank you. Let's move on to the questions at this point. Would any of you like to join the list and ask a question? I don't see any more applicants. So I'm closing the list. We begin with Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Question time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister! I'd like to ask you about the time of the permits. Did the time change after all the provisions you introduced change, or did it shorten? How did this affect the issuing of permits? It's always been an Achilles heel. Many investors resigned while waiting for these permits to be granted. Did those laws you put in place change that in favor of you? What statistics do you have that would confirm or disprove it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u177	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Question from my district: Warmia, Mazury, Olsztyn. Minister, a very local topic, about Olsztyn and my district. Warmińsko-Mazury economic zone and three times approach to the change of president, if not four times. Minister, as a Member, I would like to know what sins Mr Grzegorz Smolinski, President of the Warmia-Mazury Special Economic Zone, has committed. Three times to dismiss the President, and when I read in the report what the results are, all the results, then, frankly, I don't see the basis here, unless there are things we don't know about, or we have things that are unclear. All I know is that a man has been called off. And now the question is whether there were substantive or political grounds. Maybe it's worth saying it with one open text and it'll be clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u179	Thank you. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u180	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers! Honourable Members! I would like to strengthen the voice of Mr Maciejewski's colleague on the same issue. I also represent Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship and I have a question about this zone. Information on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act states that the above zone is characterised by the highest investment dynamic, which increased by 25.75% in 2018. in relation to the previous year. It is a distinctive zone against the background of other 14 zones operating in Poland. The question is, if it's so good, why is it so bad? A few days ago, the Supervisory Board of the Warmia-Mazury Special Economic Zone, controlled by the PiS government of course, fired the President of the Management Board of Mr Grzegorz Smolinski, who is an active member of the PiS Party in Warmia and Mazury. What happened? What were the reasons behind this decision? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which tasks did Mr. Grzegorz Smolinski overwhelm that you decided to say goodbye to him exactly three months before the election? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u181	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u182	Minister! It's nice of you to be in person. I would like to ask how the Act on Supporting New Investments worked. The answer to this question must be answered. And is there really a chance that the whole of Poland will be a special economic zone? Judging by where we meet Ukrainians, employees of all kinds of factories and factories, I think it's all there. It's just one aspect of it. However, it is about cities losing their socio-economic functions. 122 cities were listed by the Minister of Investment and Development, on this list are almost all the county cities of Opole Voivodeship. He starts the Prudnik list and finishes his Minds. There are specific areas of special economic zones. Do you foresee any particular actions to make these places popular when it comes to investment, because so far, this is an example of the city [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thinking it's a few or a dozen acres and still empty? So what are you going to do about these cases? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u183	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Special economic zones play an important role in the national economy. Their positive impact in the economy is obvious, but is the Ministry looking for new instruments and solutions for further economic activation and the collection of investment capital into economic zones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u185	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u186	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Oh, there you are. Question. In the document we are discussing, you point out that the economic zone area increased by less than 230 hectares in 2018. From what I remember, you have announced that all Poland is to become an economic zone. Of course, that doesn't mean 312 grand. km2 would have an economic zone which is Polish. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Over 14,000. But why such a small increase? This is such a micro-growth, less than 230 hectares, in a situation where you pointed out that the change in the regulations governing the functioning of economic zones will be an impulse, such an impulse for development. Meanwhile, it turns out that we have 230 ha. I don't think it's much. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u187	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. That's another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Special economic zones were intended to reduce unemployment and increase the share of foreign capital. And it kind of happened. Despite many changes over time, the model that operates will not allow us to break out of the middle income trap and to compete with low labour costs. The changes that the government is making are essentially cosmetic and are designed to show that something is happening, that there are changes for the better. It is important to recognise local government units as a huge commitment. However, the problem is wider and concerns the entire Polish economy. We're the subsupplier's economy. In the long run, such a system is dysfunctional because it condemns us to the eternal role of the latter. Maybe we should finally think about developing in terms of training in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. [[♪ The bell ♪]] or the need to increase public R &amp; D expenditure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u189	Thank you. And Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u190	Thank you. High Izbo! Minister! We know more or less how many new jobs have been created. I am lacking information on the number of jobs in the immediate vicinity of the economic zones. Is the gross balance actually positive? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u191	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, how many new jobs have been created as a result of the introduction of a new support instrument under the Support for New Investment Act, which is intended to replace special economic zones? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u193	Thank you. This and previous questions will be answered by the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Ms Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your questions and thank you per balance positive reviews on how to implement the Act on Special Economic Zones. Maybe I'll start with a general remark that came up in a few of your questions. We report on the Act on Special Economic Zones, which entered into force, as you yourself mentioned, in May Ub. r. It is from this law that we report. We do not report on the new law, the law on investment support. The rule of action... Why did this zone - this also appeared in a few questions - only increased by 230 hectares? Because in this framework, until the functioning of that law, it has increased so much, and since the entry into force of the new law we say that all Poland is a special economic zone. And now I will refer to the comments of the State and to question the elements connected with whether it is all Poland or not. I would like to remind you that the zone privilege and tax relief are now granted under this new law throughout Poland in accordance with the public aid map approved by the European Commission. We are not able to extend these scissors more because it would be incompatible with Community law. So we have expanded, we have shortened the way to access this privilege by not having to include land in the zone today, this step is not necessary. On the other hand, an entrepreneur interested in the investment can do so anywhere on the map of Poland, knowing that in various places in Poland he can obtain various sizes of public aid. E.g. in Warsaw, this assistance cannot be obtained. Before I go to Mrs Nykiel's question, I will first refer to the comments. I repeat many times that in general no public policy will be implemented without good government and self-government cooperation. We will not be able to implement any law in this way. I always give this good example: the 500+ program was implemented without a box in the first hand, because we were able to work well with the local government and we were able to distribute it well. The same is true with local governments. As far as the Special Economic Zones Act is concerned, it is easier to attract investors, from which the biggest ones most often knock on government administration, the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, the former PAIiIZ, or the Ministry of entrepreneurship and development, and then establish cooperation with local governments through special economic zones. With regard to the scope of this cooperation, I must say that if there is a good local authority, the willingness to accept and take such an investor is much greater than where the local authority does not cooperate. With regard to how we have induced even more zone companies, which today have unlimited territorially, borders, while designated areas of activity in Poland, even before the law entered into force the zone received a recommendation to conduct training in all municipalities in the territory of this new area in which it applies. And that's what really happened. The first zone that actually did this in all municipalities was the Pomeranian Special Economic Zone. Here the commune was knocked on, knocked on all the municipalities in the area where the zone operated, these new rules of public aid were presented, and the communes were asked to do so, and it was done with the moslem, because it is a long process, it is a long-term omission and I do not refer to one or the other predecessors. Only that such a map of investment areas, all of them in Poland, we are really creating today. Because we know what we have in the zones, but it's not just zones, it's also potential areas in municipalities, areas at the disposal of KOWR. That's the map we're making today. We therefore thank the local authorities and thank you, Madam President, for mentioning this. But we local governments thank you many times, because this profit balance is always on both sides. The economy benefits from this in its entirety, the municipalities also gain directly from such investments. As I mentioned, the course of investments, the infrastructure that is necessary for an investor to appear, is indeed largely the expenditure of the local government, but let us not forget about the outstanding amounts that are invested by zone companies, as well as the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. In the case of these biggest investments... As I say, without support, without a combination of at least a few budgets, these heavy infrastructure investments - I am talking about adequate power and availability of electricity, roads and sewage - would not be realised. And now I'm gonna answer the questions directly. How long does it take for zone permits to be granted at the moment? I can tell you that since the beginning of this year - because it was one of the parameters of the changes that we wanted to make, these multi-months, especially the elements related to the re-qualification of the land or just the change of the map - in the regime of the new law this maximum waiting time is now 2 months, that is the maximum time. So it was really cut short. With regard to applications that have been affected since the beginning of this year, we have no arrears, they are being dealt with on an ongoing basis. I would like to remind you that this was also a difficult year because the Special Economic Zones and Investment Support Act set up a transitional period, i.e. new investors could, if they wanted to, apply for a zone permit in the old law regime by 15 June this year or - it was their choice - in the new law regime, hence the data is incomplete. That is why, Mr Maciejewski asked, these data on the report on the Special Economic Zones Act are incomplete in terms of how many jobs we have created, how many investments. With regard to the question of two Members, Mr Maciejewski and Mr Papke, regarding the Warmia-Mazury Special Economic Zone, I would like to remind you that the appointment and dismissal of the authorities is the exclusive competence of the supervisory authority, which decides sovereignly whether the company's authorities meet the expectations or not, so this question, appropriate and legitimate, is for the supervisory board. Now Mr Wilczyński's question, in general, asked how the Investment Support Act worked. First, maybe that's the question of how the Investment Support Act worked. I've had a summation since the beginning of this new law. The number of decisions issued is 82 decisions, the declared value of investments is almost PLN 6 billion and the number of new jobs created, i.e. declared, because these are ongoing investments, these are 2,300 new jobs. This is, if we're talking about a new bill, a list by the end of May. The list of cities, the second question by the Member, concerning the list of cities on the list, if I recall correctly, 122 cities that lose their social functions. The list was prepared after Prof. Śleszyński from the Polish Academy of Sciences. Do we have any special instruments? A whole set of special support instruments for regeneration and investment support are addressed to these cities. They today have special lines actually in each operational programme, in the Operational Programme Each of these shows has today... Each entity, local government unit applying for a grant, and any economic operator applying for additional funding from any programme, if this is the case in one of the cities indicated in the list of cities losing social functions, obtains additional preferences, so those preferences are first included. We have such preferences in the Act on supporting additional investments have not been recorded, because, as I say, we provide assistance, the amount of aid is compatible with public aid. Today we try to show... You know these most active areas where the Special Economic Zones Act, 1994, was in force. We know that the Legnica, Kostrzyn and Słubicka are the ones that break at seams, the investors just don't fit anymore. We in various instruments of support, but also in various instruments of encouragement, are trying to show other areas. Polish Investment and Trade Agency together e.g. with ABSL, with an association that collects business services centers in Poland, she prepared a list of second-speed cities that meet the criteria for this type of business that could attract them to such cities. We prepared them apolitically, in many of these cities there are vagrants who do not represent the United Right Camp, but because we care about sustainability and because we see that investors in first-speed cities today, as I say, are having difficulty finding hands to work, in this way we want to attract them. Mr Tomczak's question of how we are going to download further activation. Of course, not only is this new law on supporting investments, which I mentioned earlier, but also the change of function and role, the way the Polish Investment and Trade Agency works, the creation of such a one-stop shop system, all this makes it very easy, because investors today do not really wander from place to place in Poland. Quality of service, I think, from PAiH through zones and really good cooperation zones with investor service centers are most often institutions run by marshals, I think it creates good quality of service. We often meet with these assessments, which is why I can say that in the case of the largest investment we granted, the zone permit last year, the Belgian investor said that he decided to Poland because of the speed of service, speed of decision making and good cooperation between the government and local government where they decided to place the investment. So that I think the best evaluation is for us to evaluate investors. On Mr Grabowski's question about the area, I think I have answered. Mrs Navel's question. In this question, the Member made an assessment that the changes we are proposing are cosmetic. In my opinion, this law is a revolutionary change, really, i.e. The investment promotion law is really a breakthrough in Kopernikański in terms of increasing investment attractiveness in Poland. We know that the zone instrument applies to all neighbouring countries. Zone instruments have Czech Republic and Slovakia, they are in the Baltic States. Today, this mode, which we offer, really increases the investment attractiveness of Poland, as we see in data, in the number of investments that have decided to come to Poland last year and in 2017. Now, the question of Mr Skutecki on the balance of jobs created in zones and outdoors. Today, the only thing we hear from investors who have already decided is that they are in the process of realization, is the fear of getting their hands on the job. That's how it is today. Recordlessly low, the lowest level of unemployment in Poland has generated such concerns for 25 years. So we don't see a situation where a large number of jobs are generated in one place at the expense of another. We see today that wherever we are able to attract an investor by means of a zone instrument, this investor not only gives a job in a given area... Moreover, in the case of one of the large investments which is currently under way, its first stage, the investor together with Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego decided to build a housing estate to attract employees from another part of Poland. We know that we have a little over 5% total unemployment in Poland, but there are such areas, I do not know, previously mentioned Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, where unemployment is two-digit. Thus, in order to be able to attract employees from other parts of Poland, such social projects are implemented. I think I have answered all the questions of ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u195	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u196	The key to the future of many regions, not only the Silesian region from which I come from, will in the future be to counter those factors which can adversely affect the labour market. These include: An ageing population or the migration of workers who acquire qualifications can move to other EU countries. Katowice Special Economic Zone takes action to encourage them to work in Silesia. For this reason, there are adjustments to the pilot scheme "Employee+ Apartment+', which gives the employer the opportunity to obtain properly trained employees, where under the agreements concluded they will be able to work and live not far from the plant, in apartments built and made available to employees as part of an incentive package, i.e. employee benefits. My question is: Have studies been developed in the context of the information presented to support a similar type of initiative?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u197	Minister! In special economic zones there are certain minimum eligible costs for new investments. In 122 medium-sized cities losing socio-economic functions, and municipalities bordering them, the most favourable level of investment required is applied. In the Upper Silesian agglomeration, this sometimes leads to irrational situations where preferential conditions occur in a very industrialized city bordering the city on the mentioned list, but not in the rural village. Thanks to good infrastructure, all these locations are available within 15 and 20 minutes by car. Are changes planned to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u198	The Commission requests the adoption of the information submitted on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act, as of 31 December 2018, contained in print No 3491. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Code of Commercial Companies Act (prints Nos 3142 and 3561). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications about the draft Act on the amendment of the Commercial Companies Code Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, print No 3142. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the bill submitted to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to consider it. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering this draft law at its meetings on 15 March and 2 July 2019 asks the High Sejm to approve it. It should be stressed that the proposed amendment aims to improve the holding of meetings of shareholders in companies through the use of electronic means of communication. This is an amendment expected by entrepreneurs. It aims to facilitate the functioning and communication of shareholders in capital companies. It should be stressed that the amendment was adopted unanimously. During the committee's work, only minor legislative and editorial amendments were introduced. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u200	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, you will present your position to Arkadiusz Mularczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amended amendment, as I have already emphasised as rapporteur for the committee, aims to improve and improve the efficiency of the activities and functioning of the capital companies by allowing participation in the meetings of shareholders by electronic means, which includes in particular the transmission of meetings, bilateral communication or the exercise of voting rights in person or by a proxy during the meetings of the shareholders. This amendment is expected, meets the expectations of capital companies, shareholders, shareholders. It will improve economic turnover. Law and Justice fully supports the proposed amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u202	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition will be presented by Maria Małgorzata Janyska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is actually a technical project that allows the meeting of shareholders to be held using electronic means of communication. It's a project that can help, doesn't have to help, but it doesn't hurt. It is, of course, voluntary to use the provisions of this law. Therefore, I would like to stress once again what I said at first reading: this project in the explanatory memorandum was over-appreciated because it reads that it will stimulate the entrepreneurship of natural and legal persons considering starting a business in Poland in the form of an o.o. company, that it can be expected to increase indirect tax revenues and reduce the unemployment rate and that this change will make it easier for Polish entrepreneurs to raise foreign capital. None of these proposals were, of course, supported by figures, and this was proved by economic analysis. It's such a wishful thinking. However, in almost four years of research, there has been a systematic first-place argument that businesses consider the worst barrier to ill-established law, speediness of lawmaking, uncertainty of tomorrow as regards legislation, and instability of law. Minister, I would like to stress once again that this is the biggest barrier, it determines whether entrepreneurs are investing or making investment decisions and development decisions. This is the biggest barrier because they don't know what to expect from day to day. The last example. Young entrepreneurs who do business as individuals ask me why they cannot benefit from non-payment of income taxes, and young people employed for employment contracts are exempt from it. These are the regulations that are difficult for entrepreneurs to accept. It's like jumping, it's not system solutions, and it's not stable for entrepreneurs. It's very important. This project is very short because it concerns a very narrow range of cases, but at the same time during the work in the two articles that have been included here, six paragraphs three have been deleted. This also shows a little about the quality of projects that affect the Sejm. Finally, I would like to remind the Minister... I know you didn't do this, and you weren't the one in the High House, but I've been asking you to check it out lately. - I do not know whether this is the case - as your project on the Law on the Freedom of Business that was still in operation at that time, which was to improve legislation, introduce an assessment of the foreseeable impact of the bill or regulation on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, is being implemented in practice. In a later legal act, i.e. in the Law of Entrepreneurs, this entry was modified. This is a completely different dimension and a completely different aspect has been taken into account, as this is limited only to economic law, in addition to the rules on taking up, exercising or ending business. It is written softly - there are no rules to analyse the impact assessment and the obligation to implement it, and this is a very important aspect. I think the High House should focus on that. Unfortunately, in the files that have entered into force so far, this has not been implemented in the Law of Entrepreneurs. As a Civic Platform we have a very good project - we presented it in the program forum - which should solve these problems. Unfortunately, it was not accepted by the High House. Hence, the call on entrepreneurs to pay attention to this and continue to demand that a good law be made, which will provide for what effects this right may have on their business. It is about administrative, financial and organisational consequences. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u204	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski speaking on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft law presented by the President on amending the Commercial Companies Code Act. Ladies and gentlemen, this change is not controversial. It aims to facilitate the holding of meetings of shareholders using electronic means of communication. Of course, we support this solution. Taking advantage of the opportunity and the presence of the Minister, I would like to draw attention, or actually ask the President to draw attention to two issues: firstly, to the specific legislative madness that is taking place in the Sejm. Perhaps the President will consider it appropriate to signal that quick, sometimes insanely fast lawmaking does not result in the best solutions that can be offered to businesses. I am referring specifically to the law currently under investigation which is introducing, or actually extending, the so-called law. split payment for entrepreneurs. Minister, to be clear, I am not against split payment, but today is July 18th, and the bill is to enter into force on September 1st. This is about the dignity of the President's office, because if tomorrow, July 19th, the bill is passed by the Sejm and goes to the Senate, then basically Mr. President, using the statutory deadline for signing the bill... This bill can only be signed at the last minute, on contact. So? The bill will be signed at the end of August and will enter into force on 1 September. There used to be a rule when it comes to regulations governing economic activity that have entered into force twice a year. Entrepreneurs had time to prepare for change. I think it was good practice. Of course, we are talking about the fight against the VAT gap here, but I allow you to draw attention to this problem, and I ask that you, both the Minister and the President, if there is a problem with this in the ministry or perhaps among the majority of the Sejm, so that you may be aware of the role of entrepreneurs who, in fact, a few days before the law enters into force, find out... Those more preventative people are already aware of what is happening in the Sejm, only the question of whether entrepreneurs should be engaged in business or checking what is currently being processed in the Sejm. I would like to address one more point. Minister, let me remind you of our leader Paweł Kukiz's appeal to the President, which concerns the publication of the parliamentary elections as soon as possible. We see that there is a consensus that the elections are to take place on 13 October, so there is nothing to prevent the President from waiting for their announcement until the last possible date and giving the same opportunity to smaller committees, smaller groups, smaller political parties or associations to gather signatures and participate in the celebration of democracy, which is the parliamentary elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u206	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Polska, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Commercial Companies Code Act, contained in prints 3142 and 3561. This project assumes that the company's agreement will now be allowed to participate in the shareholders' meeting using teleconferences or teleconferences. From now on, it will be permitted to broadcast the meetings of the shareholders in real time and to communicate bilaterally in real time, in which the partners may express themselves in the course of the meetings of the shareholders, while staying in a place other than the meeting of the shareholders. In the justification of the project we read that the teleconferencing consists of transmitting by electronic means the meetings held at the place specified in the agreement of the company to other places where the partners are gathered. On the other hand, the videoconference is a kind of electronic connection between partners staying in different locations. A partner may be in a place other than the place of the meeting, but at a place indicated by the company. At a videoconference, the partner may join it from any place having access to electronic communications used to conduct a videoconference. According to the project, however, the adoption of an electronic form of assembly is not to exempt the company from determining the place where the managing partner meeting, together with the minutes and possible bodies of the company, will physically reside. High Izbo! The proposed solution will improve the functioning of a wide range of limited liability companies, with the current easily accessible technological opportunities. I think this is particularly important in the face of widespread computerisation and the ability to perform tasks remotely. The undoubted advantage of the proposed solutions is technological neutrality, i.e. leaving economic operators free to choose technological measures. In Poland we have more than 450,000. companies that will be able to benefit from this solution. The current version of the draft amendment uses a phrase referring to bilateral communication. Interested parties, i.e. entrepreneurs, point out that it would be more appropriate to use the phrase: multilateral communication, which would avoid any doubt if more than two partners participated in the video conference. In our opinion, this call deserves attention and consideration in the course of the work on the project, which we would like to encourage. On the other hand, in general, the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland will certainly not prevent this project from being adopted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Six Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. As the first Mr Rafał Mucha, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In view of similar arrangements under the rules governing the operation of the public limited liability company, I would like to ask about the practical importance of the proposed regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question: Should it not have been noted in the proposed provisions that the agreement may allow the use of electronic means of communication for the execution of the shareholders' meeting, but the manner in which this communication should be carried out should be specified in the contract together with the method of identifying the partner and its powers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a great project that civilizes Polish law, which too often does not follow the world and technology. On the other hand, doesn't the Minister think it would be appropriate to clarify what these electronic communications are? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's in a minute, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is undoubtedly very successful and very successful. Mr. President's idea seems to be a good idea. However, like any idea to be hit, it must be well consulted with entrepreneurs, with the environments of the economic self-government. That is why I wanted to ask: What were these consultations and comments from the economic community? Were they implemented? Because very often we meet with many projects, for which there are various interesting economic intentions, but because they are not consulted with chambers of commerce, they often do not fully solve the problems they are dealing with. So I'd like an answer to a quick question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This may be more a question to the government side: Do you provide for the possibility of extending these arrangements to companies other than companies from O.O.? That's basically it. Simple, short question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u218	Thank you very much. And Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. He's late again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u219	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A short technical question: Does the applicant also consider real-time communication to be a two-way communication? If so, on what basis can the right to vote at a meeting of shareholders be established? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u220	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Sebastian Kaleta, will answer the questions. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the initiative put forward by the President deserves to be taken into account and commended. Such a change, which will make it easier for entrepreneurs to function in a dynamically changing reality, is important to facilitate the handling of organisational matters of the company. The government has adopted a position in support of this bill. At the same time, I will address one question that has been addressed to the government. If the bill is adopted and signed by your President, we will, of course, observe how these new rules work, whether entrepreneurs benefit from this facilitation and how they organise a meeting on the basis of these provisions, and then it may be analysed whether this should be extended to other companies covered by the Commercial Companies Code. We will certainly look forward to the changes that we hope will come into force with a great deal of sympathy for further changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Mucha, Deputy Head of the President's Office, also asked for the floor. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u223	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Thank you very much for these votes in support of the Presidential initiative to amend the Commercial Companies Code Act, which has sounded here. Of course, this change is a necessary change, desirable and expected by the business community. There was also a direct question of consultation with the business community. The whole initiative was submitted as part of the activities of the President's Chancellery to the Office of the National Council for Development, Local Government and Civil Initiatives, as well as to the National Council for Development by the Centre. Adam Smith. So entrepreneurs came up with this kind of demand that, by modeling on solutions that today operate under the Commercial Companies Code, for example in the case of a public limited liability company, this kind of solution, concerning the possibility of holding a meeting of shareholders using electronic means, also create. Hence, this change of law is not only consulted with the business community, but also directly notified by the business community. As far as the practical effects are concerned, in terms of changing the law that we are proposing here to the High House, as has been said here, we have almost 500,000. limited liability companies. It's according to the REGON records. If we were to assume that about 5% These companies are foreign capital companies, so we can say that we have 20,000. the entities concerned and on which the operation may be affected. Such a change is a very important and beneficial change from the perspective of the investor, which is currently considering the possibility of doing business in Poland in the form of a company from o.o. It makes it easier to function by means of the possibility of video conferencing, whether it's teleconferences, that is, communication using electronic means, when we are dealing with a natural person or with a legal person who is established abroad. This is an extraordinary facilitation in terms of reducing the costs of the company's operations and improving its functioning, and we are aware that in the case of the company's o.o. it is necessary to hold a meeting outside the ordinary assembly of shareholders in certain situations, in coded terms or under the articles of association. Then there is the possibility that I am out of the country, and such a gathering can be held. It is undoubtedly easier to decide on the location of the funds. Hence, we absolutely maintain what is contained in the explanatory memorandum in terms of positive economic, economic, and we stress that this is a kind of change that will serve Polish entities, but will also serve foreign investors who want to participate in such Polish entities. This is, moreover, a mapping of changes that have already occurred in Western legislation. As regards the issue of technological neutrality, we see the technological neutrality of these rules as an advantage. This is precisely the point of not making amendments or amendments to the Commercial Companies Code every time technology is ahead of the law, but declaring this technological neutrality, without defining the concept of electronic means of communication, introduce a legally flexible solution which will be fulfilled precisely by certain means of communication. So that with technical progress one can imagine further action. As regards the issue of detailed regulation under the company's agreement, we also discussed and considered this issue. Here it is necessary to point out that whether by appropriate regulations, whether by appropriate actions already within a given company, these issues can be specified in detail, if necessary, but we have not seen such a need to force a firm amendment of the company's contract here beyond what is contained in the proposed bill, because there it is directly in the newly added article. 234 in § 1 We specify that the articles of association may allow participation in a meeting of shareholders using electronic means of communication. The concept of bilateral communication. This should also be understood as multilateral communication, so this bilateral communication will also be multilateral communication. I am convinced that this change of law will contribute to the fact that we will have more companies. and more companies with foreign capital. There were broader questions concerning the cooperation between the President and the business community. I told you that this law also came from the functioning of the National Development Council, which is such an advisory and advisory body with the President of the Republic of Poland, but the President has conducted this dialogue with entrepreneurs in various formats and through a direct meeting, through meetings of economic advisers or meetings of presidential ministers, and has recently been appointed to the President of the Republic of Poland on a proposal from the business community. Entrepreneurship, so this is a permanent dialogue, taking place in the sections of the National Development Council, taking place in the advisory groups of the Council for Development. Entrepreneurship. Maria Janyska also asked, referring to our amendment to the Law on the Freedom of Business, about the practical effects of this solution, which requires the assessment of any changes to the law from the perspective of the interests of micro- or small entrepreneurs, what was subsequently requisitioned in the Law of Entrepreneurs. I would like to stress here that, with each presidential act, we carry out this kind of analysis and this is illustrated in the wording of the justification, i.e. if a presidential bill appears and concerns a sphere which could in any way concern interests or responsibilities or the powers of entrepreneurs, this analysis is carried out by us. I think this is a good example that you can rely on, also pointing to the justifications of the laws put forward to the High House. Given all these circumstances, I thank you very much for the votes expressed and, of course, I request that the High House support the bill amending the Commercial Companies Code Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u225	The following Article shall be inserted: 5 § 5 The Commercial Companies Code introduces an obligation for each public limited company to maintain its own website. It requires each public limited company to have a website intended at least for communication with shareholders. The objective is absolutely right, but I have the question of how in practice this solution will improve the effectiveness of the protection of shareholders' rights as a minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u226	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws (prints No 3541 and 3592). I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws, print No 3541 and 3592. The Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications examined the draft law at its meeting on 4 July, adopted a draft with an amendment to the article. 328, which specifies the procedure and grounds for entering an entry in the register of shareholders, added § 5a as follows: When entering the register of shareholders, the entity keeping the register shall take into account the restrictions on the Regulation by action. The Commission has also adopted legislative, editorial and clarification amendments. I would like to remind you that the project aims to introduce a basis for compulsory dematerialisation of shares in public limited liability companies and limited liability companies. The proposed regulations will affect the establishment of a single legal framework by introducing an autonomous trading regime for shares in non-public companies, i.e. outside the organised market. The additional benefits of the dematerialisation process are mainly linked to the reduction of the costs of printing, storing and transporting securities documents - shares. It is also worth noting that dematerialisation minimises the risks associated with the loss of securities. At the same time, there is no reason for this not to apply to registered shares. The non-dematerialisation of registered shares would also result in a non-public company having to maintain two separate systems for registering shares: the register of shareholders referred to in the project and the stock book, which would not only be cumbersome and more costly for the company itself, but would also complicate the legal environment. The compulsory dematerialisation of shares causes that each action, whether a bearer action or a name action, has de facto the status of a registered share allowing the identification of a shareholder entitled to bearer shares rights in cases defined by law. It should also be noted that the project enhances transparency and the efficiency of the exchange of information in tax matters in accordance with the standards of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. As a result of the work of the committees and experts, the rules have been clarified and they fulfil their role in the evaluation of the committees. High Izbo! The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u228	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my views on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and certain other laws contained in print No 3541 and 3592. The project pursues this fundamental objective of government submission, which is to increase transparency and the efficiency of the exchange of information in tax matters, in line with OECD standards by introducing regulations that enable dematerialisation of actions, as the rapporteur of the committee Mr Grzegorz Lorek said. These changes are clearly necessary because in modern European economies such regulations are in force, and if we do not want to be a high-risk country in this area, they need to be introduced. Of course, the project gained support and acceptance actually over divisions in the committee, did not arouse any great controversy. This also demonstrates the need to adopt these regulations, but, of course, like any project, it requires minor drafting and substantive amendments, including in transitional provisions, which is why on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I submit 13 such amendments. Of course, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u230	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I wanted to present a position on the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code Act. Of course, we are talking here about the legislative order, respect for the citizens, for the addressees of the law generally in force, and we are dealing with laws one by one that are updating the same legal act, which is the basis for the operation of many entrepreneurs. It seems that it is at least a wonder why this is happening and why this legislative process cannot be brought into order. But I wanted to refer directly to the proposed legislation that actually... Dematerialisation, which is the subject of this amendment, actually means the liquidation of bearer shares in the public limited liability company and in the limited liability company. Although the legislator does not use the term "decommissioning" but the mandatory, compulsory dematerialisation of all shares will mean that this type of bearer shares will be eliminated, i.e. the system, existing in the Polish system since 1934. The developer in the explanatory memorandum states that the problem for the state is to use bearer shares as a trial, as a basis for money laundering or other abuse. And here is an inconsistency, because if we assume that the bearer security is to be the cause of some abuse, we should consider whether other forms of bearer securities should exist in the Polish legal system, and such as we know, on the basis of art. 921 can be created, because in 1990 the introduction of securities into the system of Polish law was created the possibility of creating them. The adopted system makes it possible to create such securities in an unlimited way, and if the problem is bearer securities, this problem had to be dealt with in a comprehensive way, and not just eliminated bearer shares from the Polish system. Therefore, the dematerialisation provided for in this Act will not solve, will not remove all the problems that caused the proposed act. The risks of abuse will still exist. If anyone has used the bearer security for such wicked purposes as they speak of, he will continue to do so. In addition, in your statement of reasons, you write that the construction of a bearer's security is a problem. So if you see that it's a problem, you have to solve it, not make a problem just in this one segment. Of course, another issue arises, namely, as regards the limitation of economic activities. Because I understand today that if someone wants to remain anonymous, they choose to participate in the company. Eliminating the bearer action makes this anonymity disappear. And you write in the explanatory memorandum that there is no justification to guarantee the anonymity of the shareholder of a public limited liability company when there is no such guarantee of the company's partner. That's why someone chooses a joint stock company, that's why they choose bearer securities to have such anonymity. If you take that right away from him, it's basically So, in part, we equalize both of these companies, and anonymity occurred in the interwar period, also occurs in other legal systems, intensively in France. And what I want to say is that even if we're making blockades here, they're bogus blockades, because this anonymity can occur through the use of the construction of the freedom of contracting, which has been expressed since 1 October 1990 by the provision of the article. 353. So this attempt to bring in the dam won't do any good. Therefore, it does not convince the issue of marketing safety raised in the explanatory memorandum as a cause of dematerialisation. It does not seem that the bearer of the security itself cannot properly take care of its interests, its security. And it is also not true that in any way dematerialization of bearer paper facilitates, simplifies turnover. Besides, you write that the advantage of dematerialization [[♪ The bell ♪]] is to be the fact that the keeping of records of accounts is entrusted to qualified entities subject to State supervision. The question arises: Who will answer for mistakes because mistakes occur in these registers? Who's gonna answer for the mistakes? Who will be responsible for the consequences of other rules that are in force in our system? You're divorcing the justification for the article. 169 Civil Code...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u232	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u233	So by the end of the day, you can refer to the nineteenth century. As government officials said, resisting dematerialisation is 19th-century thinking. I really prefer to think 19th-century and respect the solutions developed in 1934, which were...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u234	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u235	...the Jury Championship, rather than appealing to some idea for 21st-century law changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u236	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, Mr Paweł Grabowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ministers! I remember at first reading when the Minister argued, somewhat in a joke tone, that since today's solutions - those you propose to remove - come from the interwar 20th century, since we live in the 21st century, the solutions that were adopted in the interwar 20th anniversary should be removed from the Polish legal system. And here you are, staying a little bit in the convention of jokes, and you're proposing this solution... There's also a joke about how to eliminate poverty and unemployment at the same time. Well, then everyone's probably gonna finish up when they want to read it or they're gonna be interested. And how exactly does this apply to your proposal? Well, the clou of this proposal is the liquidation, actually dematerialization of the shares, i.e. the removal from trading of the so-called. bearer shares or, in particular, the creation of an appropriate register in which bearer shares or bearer shares owners cease to be anonymous and will be entered in the register. This is, of course, a complication of the system on the one hand, but when it comes to making things complicated, making things difficult for entrepreneurs or investors, it does not surprise me that you are taking this direction. On the other hand, I wonder if the designer, the originator of this solution, is aware that this solution is ineffective. Because here I am presenting two ways, two methods of circumvention of your proposed solution. Well, first of all, it could be a solution in which the formal owner of the shares will be entity A bound by a contract with entity B, which will be the actual owner of rights e.g. resulting from this action. It will no longer be included in this register, so it turns out that there may be someone in the register other than the one who actually exercises the rights and obligations arising out of the bearer share. Secondly, it may also be that the bearer shares will be owned by entity C, let's give it to a foreign entity, whether it's an investment fund or a foreign commercial law company, in which the bearer shares are governed by the law, is anonymous, and it will turn out that by the way in which you want to go towards this anonymity, I apologize very much, we will all bounce from the wall. We will not be able to check and determine who owns the units - this is called equity units in investment funds or settlement funds, or partners, whether they have shares or shares of companies that are e.g. foreign companies. So the intentions were probably noble and good, of course, the idea was to increase transparency - and for the sake of clarity: I am in favour of increasing transparency - but I do not know if the proposed solution is the best possible, but already at the second reading stage it can be pointed out that it will simply be ineffective, possible to circumvent. So the question is: What is the point of creating legislation that - already at the stage of creation - will be possible to circumvent? Unless the Minister or the Ministry may not be at the stage yet, but perhaps in the Senate, or perhaps in the Senate - they will propose amendments to introduce or tighten up criminal regulations related to such circumventions that I have mentioned. So that I encourage you to consider whether these changes are really going to implement your intentions before you propose some solutions to us in Parliament, which are theoretically good, directionally also good ones, because in my opinion the intentions will not be realized. This will cause a bit of confusion, a new register will be created, which someone will probably have to handle, which will result in new costs, in fact, for the trading of securities little will change, it will become a little more difficult, it will become a little complicated. Possibly, because such effects may also be, some entrepreneurs who today, for example. they benefit from this form of bearer shares, they simply decide to transfer their capital elsewhere, where it will be possible to act in a form that will become impossible as of the date of entry into force of the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u238	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will be presented by Michał Jan Mazowiecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u239	High Seym! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. It cannot be overlooked that the Commercial Companies Code for the current government and the parliamentary majority is an important experimental ground for this term of office of the Sejm. How can such conclusions be drawn? It's already 17. amendment of this code within less than four years of the governing party's rule. In parallel, another law amending the Commercial Companies Code is being examined. It must be pointed out that the art was not constructed properly by leaning on the bill under investigation. 328 § 2 of the Commercial Companies Code specifying a range of subjects entitled to keep a register of shareholders. At the same time, designers refer to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, i.e. to entities that may hold securities accounts. However, no specific criteria shall be indicated for the selection of a third party to keep a stock register. The lack of restrictions in this respect is important in that it is de facto a third party to decide who becomes a shareholder of the company. In order to protect the interests of the company, it is appropriate to lay down specific criteria to be met by the above mentioned criteria. entities. In addition, the role of the registry operator in registering is not entirely clear. On the one hand, the draft indicates that the entity keeping the shareholder register is not required to examine the legality and validity of the documents justifying the entry of the alert, including the signature of the seller of shares or persons establishing a limited right in rem. On the other hand, it can do so on the basis of reasonable doubt. The mere wording of reasonable doubt is so indeterminate that it may be difficult to give it specific normative content. The provisions on this matter should be drafted in such a way that the obligations of the operator of the shareholder register are clearly defined. It is also worth pointing out the doubts raised by the issue of the effect of transferring rights from registered shares and linking this effect with an entry in the register. It seems doubtful to refer to as a de facto register kept by private entities subject only to a specific regime of financial supervision, but not to the status of public entities, without judicial review at the time of entry. Further comments give rise to the proposed article. 328 Commercial Companies Code, which provides for the disclosure of the shareholder register for the company and each of its shareholders. At the time of creation of the register, third parties, e.g. banks, brokerage houses, as well as state authorities therefore have access to a very wide range of information available to the company only so far. The proposed solution will also enable any interested person - for example: who will acquire one share of the company - to obtain information about the other shareholders. This may raise doubts regarding the interests and business secrets of the company as well as the confidentiality of shareholders themselves. The entry into force of the proposed amendments is linked to an increase in the operating costs of companies - e.g. driving [[♪ The bell ♪]] shareholder register, the obligation to have a website - which, especially in the case of public limited liability companies, will reduce their competitiveness. Mandatory dematerialisation of shares may discourage some investors from operating in the form of a public limited liability company or limited liability company. Due to comments submitted by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland is against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u240	Thank you very much, sir. We're going to ask questions. Four MPs came forward. I'm closing the list of MPs. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask: How will the problem of companies in which not all shareholders will deposit their shares within the prescribed time limit be resolved? Here is another issue: What is the envisaged procedure for proceedings concerning non-transferable ownership of shareholders who do not submit their shares by 1 January 2026? For it seems that negligence or, let's say, other circumstances cannot in any case be the reason for legal sanctioning the loss of property rights. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u242	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question: "Did you enter, as it is said, into a dialogue with other countries of the European Union during the consultation of these provisions, e.g. in which such anonymity of the action is and will be maintained, in order to protect myself against those solutions which I spoke about in the course of presenting the position of the club? Because if we find that this anonymity disappears and that it is possible in France or in other countries of the European Union, on the basis of the exercise of these European freedoms, it will prove that our more restrictive laws may, first, prove ineffective. Secondly, will these provisions not be considered by the institutions of the European Union to be too restrictive and restricting the freedom to trade in securities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u245	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is: What arguments are in favour of creating in a company which is not a public company the possibility of obtaining access to information enabling the identification of its shareholders and determining the number and type of shares held by them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u246	Thank you very much. And Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15, last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the real, actual reason why the legal system you are proposing will not protect the anonymity of a shareholder of a non-public company. What's the real reason for this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u248	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Minister Sebastian Kaleta, will answer questions on behalf of the Government. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u249	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The problem we are dealing with at this point is very important for many reasons. The first, in addition to the certainty of trading, is the efficiency of commercial law companies, in this case public limited liability companies and limited liability companies, and the reduction of the costs of their activities in the near future, because the dematerialisation of the shares serves to ensure that the trading system for shares of non-public companies is reliable, efficient and, on the other hand, to guarantee less costs for the operation of the system. Today, each company must collect shares in the stock book, it must keep a stock book in paper form, at each issue of a new series it must perform a number of technical activities, not just printing, exchanging documentation. But these elements can go to a lameness because there are adequate systems that guarantee the certainty of entering the relevant information about the company, so that all shareholders can be sure of the company's rights, and the company can function smoothly and, if an investor is acquired, it can quickly carry out the investment process. There was a question of anti-money laundering. The recommendation of the OECD and the trends we see in Western European regulations aim to move away from the form of a paper survey of the status of companies in the field of shareholders and to move on to electronic systems. This is the case in the UK, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Belgium. In some countries, the possibility of trading bearer shares was directly excluded. However, in our system we remain with this institution, of course by introducing an obligation to register these shares, so that all shares that can be traded and which generate rights in the company can be held in the register. It's a matter of record-keeping. We have 48 entities in Poland that can perform this service for companies. Competition between them will mean that this will not be the amount that will increase the operating costs of the public limited liability company due to the fact that the company already bears the high costs of organising the public limited liability book in its traditional form. It seems to me that discussing how to move on to modern forms of governance, modern forms of taking advantage of certain benefits of technology development, should rather be obvious; discussing the need to move on to dematerialisation wherever possible. In this case, it is possible and even desirable. The certainty as to who is the shareholder of the company is important not only for external entities but above all for shareholders themselves. The second issue of transparency. Publicity refers to the company and shareholders. All other entities which are involved in the registration process shall be subject to the applicable secrecy rules provided for by law. So there's no risk that information will circulate against the will, contrary to the law between different entities. Moreover, this is the trend in European Union and other legislation similar to that of the European Union in order to regulate these issues in the way we propose. Another problem was also raised. It seems that the Polish People's Party - Coalition Polish Parliamentary Club has submitted a reservation that the obligation of the public limited company to maintain a website on which the relevant information will be provided will result in the entrepreneurs not wanting to use the form of organization which is a public limited company. It seems to me that the discussion about whether a website is useful to entrepreneurs or not took place at least a dozen years ago, but referring to this objection, I am of the opinion that I do not share this view as much as possible. I believe that the majority of public limited liability companies carrying out a strong business activity benefit from this form of promotion of their services, which is the website, and the introduction of this obligation will not be severe for companies, but will only strengthen the possibility of offering services and products to customers. There is also a question of the idea of securities and their dematerialisation, bearer securities. The draft law makes it clear that any securities that relate to the rights in the field of public limited liability companies will be included in the register, so that they are also covered by this regulation. And the fact that we are discussing shares of a public limited liability company in this case, and not of other securities, comes directly from the scope of the submission. We're talking about the organization of the public limited liability company, the stock register directly related to the public limited liability company. It is not like the honourable Member said that this is a complete elimination of anonymity. However, when returning to this trade code from the interwar period, it is worth pointing out that one of the reasons for the operation of bearer securities is not the anonymity of the owner, it is the efficiency of trading. Yeah, she was like that, too. the reason for the operation of such documents so that the trading of these documents is efficient so that the seller and the buyer can make the transaction they desire as soon as possible, if that is their will. Today, these difficulties, including technological difficulties, which accompanied the turnover in the interwar twentieth anniversary, have disappeared in my opinion and if the creators of the Commercial Code - highly appreciated by many experts, law historians and practitioners to this day - had the opportunity to dematerialise the actions, I am convinced that they would benefit from it, because it is just how the system works better. And it is not true that there will be full anonymity of all bearer shares. The draft law does not remove a number of legal institutions allowing for various types of operations which will not be shown in that register. The trust institution will continue to function as far as possible. So to say that somebody is going to eliminate full anonymity in companies, if anybody wants it, is not true. On the other hand, Mr Grabowski pointed out how to get around it. There's nothing to care about. The purpose of the bill is not to liquidate bearer shares. The purpose of the Act is to create a system that will guarantee that everyone involved in the company and the interested person will invest in the company, a system of efficient, reliable acquisition of information about the status of shareholders in the company, using the technologies currently available. Besides, it is worth referring to the participants themselves. A CSD, a highly respected institution with no doubts as to how effectively it protects the information it is obliged to protect, has no loud scandals about it, supported the design proposed by the Ministry of Justice. Also positive opinions on the project were expressed by: KNF, Stock Exchange, business organisations, e.g. Leviatan, BCC, Chamber of Brokerage Houses, Center for Social and Economic Analysis - CASE, Center im. Adam Smith, the Union of Polish Banks. These are the institutions that have welcomed the direction of the changes proposed by the Ministry of Justice. I understand that sometimes there's a need to look for a hole in the whole thing, to criticize by force. Of course, it is always worth arguing about certain views in substance. However, in principle I am surprised by some speeches. It is believed that modern technologies, modern solutions that will improve the functioning of Polish enterprises, are generally wrong only because our government proposes them. I encourage a constructive conversation, especially that in a few years' time, I am convinced that when the House is leaning on other changes to the business company issue, no one will question that regulating the registration of shareholders through appropriate electronic registers is better for economic turnover. I'm gonna go back to the detailed questions that have come up. Question about the deadline, if for example. Someone will not report to the register until 2021. There is still a 5-year deadline within which it is possible to register bearer shares. If the bearer holder wishes to trade between 2021 and 2026, the bearer shares should first register and then, with the relevant certificate, they may dispose of their rights. As for the dialogue that was the subject of one of the questions, I think I have already spoken. The law was very well consulted, and work on it lasted almost 3 years. A number of the actors I have pointed out have responded positively. I think there are strong, positive opinions of a number of experts behind this project. In conclusion, I would like to say that the project submitted to the House for the dematerialisation of shares in public limited liability companies is a positive project, an important project which will strengthen the quality and transparency of trading in public limited liability companies. We use the available technologies so that entrepreneurs who use this form of activity can easily obtain investments and trading efficiently and at the same time reduce the costs resulting from the traditional way of keeping a stock book. For this reason, I ask the High House to support this bill. At the same time, we declare our willingness to talk further in this regard. However, I urge that talks be held about how to move forward, so that we do not force ourselves to show that the introduction of new technologies into Polish economic turnover is, in principle, wrong. It's not. I believe that an efficient electronic stock book in registers will help Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u250	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, Marshal of the Sejm, on the basis of Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, it directs this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft Act on Supplementary witnessing for persons unable to self-exist (Prints No 3603 and 3676). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, contained in print No 3676, on the Government's draft act on supplementary witnessing for persons unable to self-exist, print No 3603. The Social Policy and Family Committee discussed this proposal at its meeting on 17 July. The Commission accepted the amendments of the Legislative Bureau and rejected three amendments by Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform and the Kukiz Club15. In the vote in favour of the bill, all members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy were unanimous. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Policy Committee, I would ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. In addition, in accordance with Article. 43 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the committee submitted one minority request at the request of the applicant. This minority request was submitted by Ms Agnieszka Chasing. The minority application concerns an increase in the amount of entitlement to the supplementary benefit to the minimum wage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u252	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first position of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice will be presented to Mrs Urszula Ruseck. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft act on supplementary witnessing for persons unable to self-exist, print no. 3603. High Izbo! The basic objective of the proposed law is to support those most in need, the most vulnerable, who, mostly alone, are not able to reprimand themselves. The proposed solution is addressed to persons who are over 18 years of age and whose ability to self-exist has been established by an appropriate decision which does not have the right to a public-funded cash benefit or where the amount of such benefits does not exceed the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work. The bill is the implementation of the announcement made by the Prime Minister of the Polish government of Mateusz Morawiecki. Once again, we prove that what we have committed to as Law and Justice is being realized. Since the beginning of its operation, the Government of Law and Justice has prioritised its tasks. It is about solving very complicated problems that have accumulated for many years and which none of the previous governments have solved. One such task is to solve the problem of the environment of people with disabilities and that is what we are working on. There are deeds and facts behind Law and Justice, not empty promises. In the area of social policy, the rule of law and justice has done the most since the transformation. [[Applause]] Today Poland is the first country in the European Union to reduce poverty as quickly as possible. Just as we have implemented the 500+ family programme, from which the opposition mocked, said that there is no money and there will be no money, as we have improved the situation in the labour market, so we develop the economy, we build a support system and a strategy for people with disabilities. The bill above is another brick in building, creating a coherent support system for people with disabilities. There's been a lot of realization. Let me remind you that we have significantly increased budget resources to support programmes dedicated to disabled people. That's about PLN 4 billion more than four years ago. We systematically raise the level of benefits addressed to disabled people and their carers. The benefits that have not been raised in 12 years, such as nursing allowance. One of the main demands of disabled people was to equalise the social pension with the lowest pension for total incapacity for work. We made it happen. I will also remind you of other programs, i.e. We have established the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, the 75+ care programme. Care and assistance services are being developed by increasing annual funding for environmental assistance homes, support for occupational therapy workshops, occupational activation facilities. Here again, I thank the Government of Law and Justice and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy for this bill. The bill was expected and was welcomed especially by the community of independent individuals, which we had evidence of yesterday. There was no end to thanking you. I know that this is another stage and a small brick for future good projects for people with disabilities. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u254	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition - Mr Sławomir Piechot will speak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday it clearly sounded in this Chamber, as far as the promises of the Law and Justice are concerned by the actions. It's by the works that you know, not by those promises. Mrs Rusecka, once again, I would like to remind you that the Law and Justice promised equalisation of benefits for carers of adults with disabilities and children with disabilities 5 years ago. Four years of rule of law and justice and justice and justice would like to forget that sentence, which, after all, had been demanded. Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Rafalska promised 5,000. new jobs for people with disabilities and no one knows where these places are. On the other hand, people with disabilities are certainly fired in the civil service. For the first time in 10 years, employment of people with disabilities in the civil service is falling. And these are the facts that are worth remembering before you go back to such an apologue of the actions of your government. Yesterday, too, we clearly showed the difference in our approach to people with disabilities. It is about the subjective treatment of such persons as real citizens' partners in this dialogue, not merely creating an impression and accepting that a good disabled person is one who is meek, obedient. This clearly sounded in relation to very many elements. As far as this law is concerned, it is clear that they have escaped any public consultation because they could hear a lot of bitter comments during this consultation. On the other hand, we already raised a lot of doubts yesterday, and at the committee meeting we tabled a lot of amendments to the proposal. This is the package of amendments I want to pass on to your Marshal on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. This is above all a proposal to remove the income threshold, the income criterion. We think it is very harmful that since many benefits today do not depend on any income threshold, e.g. it is child benefit that is why, in relation to people with disabilities, this criterion would be applied, which causes some to be deprived of this benefit, at least by exceeding the thresholds in this criterion. If this general amendment is not accepted, which goes further, we believe that the minimum to be applied to this project is to remove from the income included the sources of income in the form of pensions, in particular family pensions and pensions for accidents at work. Here's another thing. We believe that it is not so easy to reach for the money of the Labour Fund. We believe that this money - since today the Minister of Finance has also ensured that the state budget is such an excellent condition - should come from the state budget. We therefore believe that it is unacceptable to collect PLN 4 billion from the Labour Fund, and that it is on the basis of rules that the Minister of Labour himself will determine, in fact, that money may never return to the Labour Fund. And that is our general request, the conclusion. But if it wasn't accepted, we think it's a minimum... The Labour Fund must not be charged the costs of handling this task, it will be approx. 100 million PLN in the first year and after 80 million PLN in subsequent years of implementation of this law. Finally, another issue that raised great concerns and doubts at the committee meeting yesterday was the re-trial of disability. We believe that if a person has a ruling on a significant degree of disability, also issued by a panel on the degree of disability, it should be sufficient. They should not again be forced to apply for further rulings, because that would mean that we doubt the judgment at all, we question the decision of the disability panel, which confirms that the person concerned has a significant degree of disability. And finally, the curial thing, which we believe should also be strongly removed from the bill. How could changes in the financial plans of the Labour Fund and the Solidarity Fund be made without the opinion of the Committee on the Budget of the Polish Sejm? How would this change be made? As a result of a completely arbitrary decision, taken without any opinion, without discussion? We believe that this kind of solution proposed in the bill is an example of how worst action, spoiling legislation. This is creating a very bad law. Please accept this package of amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u256	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Chasing I can't see. Therefore, I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u257	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft act on supplementary witnessing for people unable to self-exist, print no. 3603. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law aims at additional financial support for persons unable to live independently, who, due to the extent of their functional limitations resulting from a significant impairment of the body's performance, bear increased costs of functioning in everyday and social life. Once again, the diagnosis is fully correct, the problem is that the implementation is worse. We all remember what happened in that building last year. Nearby, a group of people with disabilities and their families lived in the main corridor for several dozen days. They'll sleep on the cold floor. Then politicians from the ruling party would come to them and make promises, asking them to stop protesting. Today many feel deceived because, as it turns out, according to the government law, not everyone will get the promised benefit of 500 PLN. The amount of the allowance is to be subject to the amount of other benefits they receive: pensions, pensions, permanent allowances. These benefits, together with the addition proposed by the government, shall not exceed PLN 1600. Some will therefore not receive 500 PLN, but lower amounts, the sum of which will not exceed the income criterion. What does that mean in practice? I just got off the phone with a friend of mine who's been in a wheelchair since the '90s. For him, it doesn't mean anything but professional deactivation. Many active people will count. It may turn out that some people with a significant degree of disability may resign from work. [[You haven't read it, sir.]] This project automatically sentences them to home lockdown and isolation. Even if someone has a job offer, he will be seriously wondering whether to take a job or sit at home and not lose his benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! Today you are bragging that the Polish state can afford to provide a decent life for those in need of help, so why are people with disabilities ignored, those who, apart from ensuring a minimum of social existence, have to bear additional costs of treatment or rehabilitation? I want to ask you in PiS if they know how much a time of rehabilitation costs. This is the amount of approx. PLN 150.200. If you count it, it's a lot of money on a monthly basis. Plus, there's a line to the specialists. You can't beat that barrier without money. Here's another thing. There is no possibility of applying for care for persons, carers, from non-professional foster families that are not related to those who are cared for. The provisions, ladies and gentlemen, the Family Benefits Act, the Family Support Act and the foster care system exclude such persons from applying for this benefit despite the actual care of disabled persons with whom they are not related. Article 1 is amended as follows: Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on Family Benefits is about adding words to other caretakers in non-professional and unrelated foster families. [[It's not for carers.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! We should keep that in mind and remember it every step of the way. To conclude, I would like to remind you that in the Seym there is a project by PSL that talks about an additional 500 PLN, without any legal loopholes, hidden stars, without thresholds and limits. This is an answer to the protests of people who have been here recently. Ladies and gentlemen! I urge you not to act like a smart banker and not push for a solution that helps seemingly, and really does rule out once again. [[Shame, sir. Shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u258	But don't use such a language, sir. I'm calling for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u259	I would ask you very much to support the amendments tabled by Mr Sławomir Piechot, which will be presented in committee. So that I ask you very much to reflect and support these amendments. [[You're lying.]] Despite these reservations, the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u260	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. The questions were asked by 14 parliamentarians. I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, asks as the first question. I can't see. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u261	High Izbo! Yesterday I didn't get an answer, and I asked how many people permanently unable to function, disabled, unable to live on their own, would not receive a benefit because they would exceed the income threshold. What's the number, and what's the amount? I also pointed out that this is a kind of discrimination where other support schemes marked with the label "+" do not have income criteria. However, answer this question. Another issue is the caretakers of people with disabilities, permanently unable to function. Those who care for adults. They have other benefits than guardians of children. It seems that the caretaker of an adult permanently unable to function [[♪ The bell ♪]] he himself will not be able to function because he will not have the means to live. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u262	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have some doubts, which is why I'd rather ask. In the case of new decisions necessary to obtain the benefit, will a 30-day time limit for convening a committee be maintained, identical to that for a disability ruling? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the Minister to confirm that the amount of income which will decide on the entitlement of a person unable to live alone to receive a supplementary benefit of 500 PLN per month will not include income from the work of that person. After all, it happens that a person who cannot exist without the help of others has the opportunity to do work, e.g. as an IT guy or a scheduler. The possibility for her to receive a supplementary benefit should not discourage her from working. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u266	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have this question: What does the applicant consider to be other information necessary to obtain the right to a supplementary benefit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u268	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u269	Thank you, Marshal. I have a few questions. The topic of income criterion was discussed in the club's speeches. Indeed, this is an injustice, since most government benefits of this kind are deprived of this criterion. But I also have a specific question. Do you have any calculations... Someone's gonna have to check it out. The operating costs of this fund will therefore be higher. Do you have calculations of how much larger than if there was no such criterion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u270	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u271	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This project can and gives hope to people with disabilities, thousands of people with disabilities, your intentions may have been good, but execution is fatal. Why? Well, because instead of, above all, abolishing the ban on disabled people, which was imposed by Marshal Kuchciński... That ban still exists. Instead of fulfilling the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2013, you do not do so. I don't know why. We've asked for this 100 times. As for the project itself, instead of really supporting people unable to exist on their own, you really exclude them. You rule out orphans and half orphans with a family pension, you rule out people who by even 1 PLN exceed the income criterion because of obtaining other income. What's more, you send people with disabilities after a retrial, because the U.S.S. doesn't really rule today, and since 2001, they've been ruling ZONs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I was 13 years old, I suffered a communication accident that resulted in my dad's death and the acquisition of disability by me. Mr Kaczyński's project excludes me from being able to receive 500+ for two reasons. Firstly, the amount of my social and family pension exceeds the permitted threshold. Secondly, the management body of the new provision will be ZUS, and I in ZUS have II group, i.e. the currently moderate degree of disability. So what about people like me now? I really don't know what to think when I meet friends who talk about new investments for their children. I'm asking for your help and the Civic Platform party. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't read the whole message at the time, but it's really squeezing her throat. I'm surprised you're sending these people back, so hurt, to the authority that you're introducing a profit criterion. We, introducing the care provision - to the level of the lowest wage [[♪ The bell ♪]] - we didn't set any income criteria and nowhere did these disabled people, so badly hurt by fate, we didn't send them back. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u274	Thank you, Member. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Law and Justice have spoken of poverty, the fact that poverty is decreasing. Unfortunately, this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, the data of the Central Statistical Office are clear: extreme poverty has increased from 4.3 to 5.4%. and poverty - from 13.4 to 14.2. These are facts that clearly state, Minister, that you must examine the abolition of the threshold in terms of the income criterion. Ladies and gentlemen, is 888 PLN per hand a lot? Is that enough for such a person to hold on to? Is that the money that provides the existence? No, it's not. When we take into account the GUS indicators, it is clear that these people are doomed to poverty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and this threshold should be lifted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u276	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u277	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Social policy is the subject of your work, which you are so proud of. It's 500+ for each child, only why after 4 years and why immediately before the election. There was also a 13th pension directly through the elections. Today we know why only for 1 month. Now you're talking about 500+ for people with disabilities. It's a lie, ladies and gentlemen. This program should be called at most 500 max., because it is possible that someone will only get 50 zlotys. The weakest group of people, unable to exist on their own, and PiS sets a profit criterion for them. Scandal, ladies and gentlemen. Don't spend 3 billion zlotys on Kurski's donations on PiS TV. Don't spend it on your ministers' prizes. Don't subsidize Father Rydzyk. Don't spend on all the Misiewiczs combined. Just let the sick people live a decent life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore ask: What were the conditions for introducing an income criterion for disabled people, Minister? I'm asking for a specific answer. We, for the criterion, say decisively no. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u278	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Societies who do not care about the weakest people or who make appearances are going to fail. The introduction of such a low income criterion here, I think, is inappropriate. Not allowing people with disabilities to live a decent life is not suitable for a nation that is located in the centre of Poland. Minister! Since we believe that minimum wages should be almost 2.3,000. zł, soon it will be 2.5 thousand, because they give the possibility of a decent life, why do we not do the same for people with disabilities? How can we let people who can't do this without helping us, healthy people, let me just say, vegetate because this isn't a life, let alone a life worth living? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u280	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't gonna perform today, I think I said enough yesterday. However, we touch very sensitive matter, the situation of people with disabilities, who do not want to be differentiated, excluded for financial reasons. I received a lot of calls yesterday in connection with our debate from people affected, among others. Parkinson's disease in wheelchairs and unable to cope without help. I couldn't answer them because I don't know where the debate is headed. However, I believe that if you have taken up the subject of supplementary benefits, lean on this project and do it honestly. Today the Prime Minister spoke about the implementation of the 2018 budget, said that there was money. I know it's not enough for everything, but I think it's a couple of gold on a budget scale. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is not a big problem, you can reconcile sides and give these people an opportunity and hope. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You say in beautiful words that the new witness is to provide those unable to exist independently with additional means to satisfy their life's needs. Apparently, you have a short memory, because last year, when the disabled asked for this supplement, they heard you couldn't afford it. Despite desperate protests, the occupation of the Sejm, many discussions, articles and broadcasts, you still ignore this social group. You're making this bill only now, before the elections are coming, because you're counting on their votes. You were four years old, and you didn't do anything about it. Now you've actually woken up in the face of the upcoming elections. What about income thresholds? Do you care about taking out as much support as possible? Clearly, that's what you care about. Minister! Taking advantage of the occasion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to answer in writing what happened to those retiring from the EWK. When are you gonna make up for these starving pensions? Do you have any idea how many people are in need? This is a really big problem. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u284	Thank you, Member. Mrs Urszula Rusiecka, Law and Justice. Rusecka, I'm still twisting, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Somehow it's so strange that the socially sensitive Platform and PSL are when they're not in charge. I'm just gonna ask one question from one area. How much did your social security pay rise in your day? Ladies and gentlemen, 6%. And now the social pension is equal to the disability pension, and that's over 40%. There are many actions that the Government of Law and Justice is doing for people with disabilities. I would like to say that this law is a small step in the construction of the system, this is just a small brick that supports the weakest ones, because the income criterion, I will remind you was also introduced at 500. There are many tasks for people with disabilities in the area of social policy that are being carried out, and today's opposition speeches are really, to say the least, very hurtful. I'm making two more amendments, Marshal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u286	Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will admit that I am anxious to listen to this debate. I'm not a member of this project committee. During this debate, I still hear allegations about the income criterion, so I wanted to ask why the income criterion is introduced at all. That's one thing. Secondly, I ask you directly and please answer: How much will you save by introducing this income criterion? How much will you save on people with disabilities by applying the income criterion? [[Are we taking any money?]] How much money won't be paid? How much money is left... [[I think we're adding.]] Marshal, please calm the Member. [[Voice from the room: It's just demagogy.]] What demagogy? Answer the question. How much will you save to introduce... [[Voice from the O.R.: You're making a career on the disabled.]] [[Shame, shame.]] ...profit criteria and some people with disabilities will be deprived of benefits? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We're not taking anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u288	Thank you, sir. The last question will be asked by Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u289	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why is the income criterion introduced when dealing with the weakest group of people with disabilities? Let's remember May. There was a pre-election race. Then a one-off allowance was introduced for pensioners. At that time there was no income criterion - 888.25 PLN went to the account of several billionaires. The supplement went to 37 of the hundreds on the Forbes list. When we are talking today about the weakest people who are unable to exist completely independently, you are introducing this criterion. This is the last moment for you to wake up so that you don't enter something that, in fact, will cause a very small group of people to benefit from what they've been waiting for for for four years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u290	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will answer the questions on behalf of the Government. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was pleased to hear your speeches and your speeches. Such debates are always watched by people with disabilities - on the Internet or on television. They certainly listened with interest to Members who showed their empathy and sensitivity. They will certainly visit their parliamentary offices many times, hoping that these Members will take care of their situation. As far as specific, substantive questions are concerned, you will allow me to address them first and foremost. Mr Piechota asked about the employment of people with disabilities. The employment rate in 2016 - I only go back to 2016 - was 26.8%. In 2018, it was 28.3%. As far as unemployment is concerned, in 2016, it was 11.6, today it is 7.2. In fact, the professional activity of people with disabilities is increasing. On the other hand, I agree with what the Member said - society is getting older. We have more and more pensioners, including those with disabilities. The number of persons of working age is smaller and can be spoken of in absolute terms. I'll take another note. Excuse me. I saw Mr Piechota and remembered that I had explanations about what was so worrying him yesterday, that is that the Committee on Public Finance will not be dealing with changes in the budget. I'll answer that. The Public Finance Act provides that the Fund's financial plan may be amended, and for the special purpose fund, of course the financial management of the special purpose fund is based on the annual financial plan. The costs of the State-owned special-purpose fund may be covered only by the funds at their disposal covering current revenues. The financial plan of the Funds shall be drawn up by the authorising officer and included in the draft budget law submitted in the Sejm. The financial plan of the fund included in the budget act adopted shall form the basis for the financial management of the fund manager during the year. In the case of amendments introduced by the law relating to the addition of a new task of the Fund and indicating the sources of its financing, the amendments to the plan are indicated directly in the text of the Act, which is assessed by the Sejm committees and adopted by the Sejm, by the entire High Chamber. Thus, the revision of the fund's financial plan results directly from the power of the law and not from the decision of the fund's authorising officer. Consequently, in such cases the provision on public finances for the opinion of the Sejm Committee, which would in this case be consulted on the decision of the Sejm, and not on the decision of the fund's authorising officer, is excluded. Because according to the provisions of the bill, the source of funding for the payment of the benefit will be among others. the loan from the Labour Fund, the provisions of the project provide for a different procedure than that of the Public Finance Act, for changes to the financial plan. In line with the provisions of the draft law, there will be an increase in the entitlements of the Labour Fund and an increase in commitments on the part of the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, On the other hand, the Public Finance Act indicates that a change in the plan may take place during the year in case of an increase in over-planned revenues, while costs may increase if they do not increase the planned status of the fund's liabilities. Since the bill introduces additional tasks of the fund resulting in an increase in costs which will be financed by commitment, it is appropriate to exclude the provisions of the Public Finance Act in this respect. This procedure is also applied in other laws introducing additional tasks for funds, e.g. for the CSO, and results from the need to comply with legislation. So that most of the changes we are talking about are the result of the law, Mr President, and certainly the finance committee on which Members sit, there is no reason to give an opinion on the changes that the entire House will adopt by law. So much for this. As far as employment is concerned, I have mentioned a little bit how it is growing and, at the same time, how the number of people in the country at working age is actually falling. Of course, people with disabilities are also part of our society and they also have the right to retire, sir. As regards the question of Mr Wilczyński, how many people will not receive the benefit if they exceed the lowest pension for incapacity for work. Mr President, there are a lot of people here. However, since the law applies to persons unable to exist independently and some people will only apply for a judgment, we cannot say precisely. On the other hand, if you have had the chance to read the bill, you know that it also applies to the lowest pensions, the lowest pensions, social pensions, social assistance benefits and people who do not have any benefits at all, so of course you have a large number of social groups. Mr Pyzik asked if there would be 30 days for the ruling and referred to 30 days for the ruling by the district board on disability. Of course, we say that independence will be decided by the Social Insurance Institution juror, but we have stated that for people with significant disabilities there will be up to 6 months to get a ruling, and the benefit will be granted from the moment the application is submitted. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska asked whether income from work would not be included in this benefit. Of course, no income from work will be included because we want independent people, people with disabilities to be active. And, of course, the Act makes it clear that this applies to those declarations financed by public funds and is financed by public funds: pensions from the Social Insurance Institution, pensions from the Social Insurance Institution, social pensions which are also paid by the Social Insurance Institution, although they are financed by the budget, and benefits from social assistance, which are also financed by the budget, i.e. by public funds. And it's over. Everything else: income from work, income from renting rooms and income from capital loans, income from compensation does not include what we are talking about. Of course, this is very important information for people with disabilities. Mr Maciej Masłowski - what other information will be needed to obtain the decision? Mr President, you must actually ask the Social Insurance Institution, but I understand that the Social Insurance Institution actually, if it is in doubt, also uses medical records and various other documents. As far as the benefit is concerned, we know that you must be 18 years old, and at the same time the benefit should not exceed the lowest disability pension, so if someone has a high pension or pension, then of course the decision will have to be refused. On the other hand, the granting of the benefit will certainly take place through an administrative decision and, of course, from an administrative decision, e.g. The Social Insurance Institution serves an appeal, also to the social security court. And, of course, an independent court decides if there are doubts. Mrs Marczulajtis asked yesterday about the case law and I have indeed prepared myself. The decision on the disability group could be obtained by 1 January 1998. Until 1998, there were Invalidity and Employment Commissions, but their decisions are still valid and valid if they have been issued for a permanent period. There is no longer a Medical Committee on Invalidity and Employment at the Social Insurance Institution, and there is no I, II and III of the disability group, but those who have been included in one of them still remain in the light of the law of disabled persons and have retained their rights, unless the decision on their disability has lost or has been amended. The disability groups translate as follows: I disability group - total incapacity for work and independent existence, II group - total incapacity for work, III group - light disability, partial incapacity for work, etc. So if someone had an I disability group, they don't have to file a motion for a judgment. Its judgment corresponds to a judgment on total incapacity for work and self-existence and is sufficient to obtain a supplementary benefit. Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz spoke about a person who has a social pension and a family pension. Of course, this is a very important situation, but it is important to remember that the family pension is only entitled to a certain age. If you're a child, of course, you're going to grow up. On the other hand, the only provision that can be combined with a social pension is a family pension. I can actually charge the lowest pension for incapacity for work and family pension in the amount of the lowest pension, i.e. such person collects 2200 PLN. Of course, it is not a person who, according to the social assistance criteria, is in a very difficult situation, because we first thought of such people. Mr Rutnicki spoke about the rise in poverty. This is a difficult subject. We spoke today during the budget debate about the fact that our society's income has actually increased. The profits have increased. They've also grown or fallen... Okay. 70%. at the moment it is the use of these revenues that we receive for current expenditure. But, of course, the increase in income caused these scissors to get a little bit out of shape, because it certainly makes certain statistical analyses not keep up with the changing reality, especially if income is growing as fast as it was last time. The second thing - you must remember that we are talking about a very small test. 5% our society is at risk of extreme poverty and, of course, it is a small group. As far as CUS is concerned, on an even smaller test, it carries out research, which is, of course, also a problem. I talked more about this during the budget debate, so I would not like to continue. But surely it is worth remembering that the income of our society has increased and that spending on the ongoing maintenance of the resources that you have, which means, we suspect that society is finally starting to save, is finally starting to put some of the income aside for difficult situations, and this is a positive signal. Mr Cieślinski spoke about sick people who should be allowed to live a decent life. Mr President, that is exactly what this is all about. The benefit for those completely incapable of independent existence is to go to those who are without income or have the lowest income, and it is good that the Member talks about it, because there are still people among us who have become disabled, for example. because of their illness, at a mature age, they did not earn their pensions and live on welfare benefits. 528 zloty is the income criterion per person in the family, ladies and gentlemen, and if I remember correctly, the fixed allowance is 624 zloty, something like that, 600 with a piece. But the income generated per person in the family is also deducted from the income criterion and only the difference is paid, so often these people have 200, 300 PLN. The only benefit they have is social assistance, very low. And we know that those unable to exist on their own have increased needs when it comes to caring when it comes to rehabilitation when it comes to treatment, and that we can finally think about these people and that we have developed any means to support them, we need to appreciate them, we just need to appreciate them. The least we can be ashamed of is that we haven't remembered them in so many years. Mr Suchajko was worried about the income criterion. Like I said, social assistance is the last site to prevent people who are in a difficult situation. They must meet two criteria: they must be e.g. Disabled people, there are other difficult situations in life, and they must also meet the income criterion in order to benefit from financial benefits. This really is a last resort, social assistance is supposed to help temporarily in a difficult situation of life, while we're talking about people unable to [[♪ The bell ♪]] an independent existence, which for the rest of life will most often be in such a situation. I'm almost done, Marshal, and there are still a few Members' questions left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u292	Maybe in writing, Minister, because we're very late.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u293	But I have two questions for you...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u294	Okay, come on, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u295	Mr Aichler wanted to give money to everyone. Of course, we have calculations. If we were, for example. they increased the income threshold from the current minimum pension for total incapacity for work to an amount corresponding to the lowest salary - the lowest salary is PLN 2250, let me remind you - this would increase by 1.5 million, 1400 thousand. people and monthly cost would be PLN 700 million times 12. You can count how much that would cost. The budget, that's us, because the budget is coming from our...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u296	Okay, Minister, I'm sorry, but we're almost half an hour behind, so I'm asking you to answer the other questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u297	Thank you very much. Other written replies.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u298	Mr Sławomir Piechot as corrected. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u299	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I didn't ask about the general employment of people with disabilities and I didn't talk about it. I was talking about the declining employment of people with disabilities in the civil service. Government reports show that. It's not our analysis. More was written about this last year. Government information on the implementation of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities indicated how many ministries neglect this obligation. And it's not like there's no willingness to work, these people volunteer to work, these people meet the criteria to hire them in ministries - and they're not hired. Therefore, Minister, if we call on others to treat people with disabilities in an individual way, and so that other entities also employ people with disabilities, the public administration should set a good example. Meanwhile, in this case, the public administration, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Especially the ministry, it sets the worst example. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Teresa Wargock, rapporteur of the committee, asked for the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Our debate at second reading and your speeches were in principle a repetition of the discussion on this draft law in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. I think it can only be regretted, because it was yesterday at a long committee meeting that all the doubts you are making today by making amendments were explained by the Minister. I think it can certainly be said that the subject of people with disabilities is a subject used by the upcoming electoral campaign. If you are accusing the Law and Justice that this is the goal: to win votes, then ask yourself what the purpose of the State is, what you are doing. $500,000. people unable to self-exist, which are to be covered by this regulation, that is, the fall after the Third Republic of Poland, that is, the decline after 8 years of the Platform government. Ladies and gentlemen, these people don't have 1100 zlotys to support, being seriously ill. We're in a place like this. Yesterday, after the committee meeting, you came to me to represent this environment and said: 14 years ago we were at the minister's office to take care of a group of zero, a group of people unable to exist alone. Now we are noticed, now we get government attention, concrete help and promise for the future. We are aware that the situation requires considerable financial resources, that the situation requires a review of case law. Thank you for what is, and we wait. I would like to ask you to speak to us at the committee meeting, which is ahead of us: today at 3 p.m. 19. 3 billion in 2020 for this programme. Please do not block the loan from the Labour Fund, because the solidarity fund with people with disabilities will only be funded from tax, from solidarity tribute in 2020. I'm asking all of us to lean down. You finally supported this proposal unanimously: 24 present Members voted in favour of this bill. I ask that we consider this project in this spirit and that we be unanimous in our third reading. The disabled deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u302	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft act on supplementary witnessing to people unable to live independently after the work on this project in committee. 500 PLN for people unable to live independently is the support needed and expected. I am pleased that, at least, this issue does not raise any more discussion. Of course, once again the voices of discontent are raised. We hear that the income threshold should be increased, that this threshold should not be at all, that the circle of beneficiaries of this law should be extended. Of course, I agree that it would be very good to implement all these demands. But you have to be realistic. You can't catch up in four years. It takes time for everything. As I stressed in my previous position on this project, I am pleased that this catching up is carried out by the government in a responsible manner. It does not promise pear on willow, but it designs support so that it is as high as possible to meet social expectations and to reach the most deprived. The Lifetime Programme, the Lifetime Programme and the Accessibility+ and Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities are several billion zlotys, which in various forms go to people with special needs, independent people and disabled people. In addition, there are numerous increases in the amount of social benefits allocated to these groups as financial support. If the total opposition claims that the situation of people with disabilities has not improved in the last 4 years, let me remind you once again: the amount of care allowance at the end of the first term of the United Rights rule will amount to almost 40% more than in the last 12 years, the amount of social pensions has increased to the level of total incapacity for work, including job and social rehabilitation, employment of disabled people and occupational therapy workshops. This is a series of actions from the whole system of support for people with disabilities and their families to improve their situation. Since 2015, financial expenditure from the state budget for support of people with disabilities and their carers has increased by as much as PLN 4 billion. If it's nothing, I don't know what to call support that the PO-PSL coalition directed to these people during its reign. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u304	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo! The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the consular law, - ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime, signed in Washington on 12 June 2019. The reports shall be printed in no 3685 and 3684 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on Government Billings: - on the amendment of the Act on value added tax and the Act on tax treatment, - amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws (Prints No. 3255, 3602 and 3681). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finances from print No 3681 on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Tax Order, print No 3255, and on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws from Print No 3602. The Sejm, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, at its 83rd meeting on 3 July 2019, the draft Law on Printing No 3255 and at its 84th meeting on 17 July 2019, the draft Law on Printing No 3602 addressed to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering these projects at its meetings on 16 and 17 July 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt draft laws. I would like to point out that eight amendments were tabled during the committee's work, six of which received a positive opinion from the committee and two were rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u306	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet will be the first to speak and present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u307	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on two government drafts of laws: amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws, printing 3602, and amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Act Tax Order, printing No 3255. Draft Print Act No 3602 concerns the replacement of the current VAT settlement solution, i.e. the so-called. reverse charge, mandatory split payment mechanism. This proposal also changes the rules on tax liability. It is proposed to introduce a limit on the amount from which the obligation to settle the split payment mechanism will take place. It was assumed that this mechanism would be covered by goods and services documented by invoices of more than 15 000. zł or equals that amount. Draft Print Act No 3255 includes a change in the way goods and services are identified for VAT purposes and the departure from the application of the Polish Classification of Products and Services, PKWiU 2008, to the CN nomenclature for goods and the current PKWiU 2015 for services. The provisions of this project can be grouped into the following blocks: the first is the new VAT matrix, the second - changes in the flat-rate system for farmers, the third - changes in the reverse charge system and institutions of joint and several liability, the fourth - the introduction of binding joint information, in short the WIS, and the fifth - technical provisions, consisting of the transition from the current PKWiU 2008 to the corresponding CN symbols. The Public Finance Commission has adopted a resolution on joint consideration of the draft laws in print no. 3255 and 3602. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, an amendment of a more specific nature was tabled to the print project No 3602. This amendment was accepted in Draft Print Act No 3255. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice tabled five amendments, including an amendment concerning Annex 2, item 2. 17, which leaves a 5% rate for non-alcoholic beverages in which the percentage by weight of fruit, vegetable or fruit and vegetable juice is not less than 20% of the raw material composition. A similar amendment was tabled by Members of the opposition. All these amendments were accepted by the Committee on Public Finance. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I support the government's draft law resulting from the merger of these two government projects. At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I propose three amendments to this bill. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u308	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, you will present your position to Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with two projects, which are now to be one project and, as a result, one law. Print No 3602 is a project which provides for the introduction into the Act on VAT on goods and services of provisions imposing an obligation to apply a split payment mechanism in certain sectors of the economy after exceeding the threshold of the gross invoice amount. This mandatory mechanism will generally cover the supply of goods and services currently subject to reverse charges and joint and several liability and additional supplies of parts and accessories for motor vehicles, coal and coal products, electrical machinery and equipment. In simplification, the aim of the project is to replace the reverse charge mechanism in national transactions with a compulsory split payment mechanism. The second project, from print No 3255, is different. Anyway, he showed up here, as I recall, in March. Then he caused a big stir, among other things. because of the taxation of juices. Several changes are expected. Certain changes concern rates, other changes concern the rules for identifying goods, and Mr Nobleman spoke of this. Finally, this project introduces binding joint information. At this point, it should be stressed that in 2017, a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, introduced a draft law amending the Act on the Tax on Goods and Services setting a single rate of 5% for all food products. This project was rejected. The uniform rate for food has a number of advantages. It means simplifying tax law, which is of great importance to businesses, leads to a reduction of fraud and is also beneficial for consumers. Due to its advantages, such a uniform rate should be included in this project because it would solve a number of problems. Indeed, the amendments that Mr Nobleman spoke about have been made to these drafts. We are also making amendments, which I am now allowing to put on the hands of your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Three Members will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. I immediately warn you that time is constant, five minutes, Mr Dlugi. Mr. Grzegorz, come in. Five minutes to go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u311	Thank you very much, Marshal, although I don't know, maybe now you have to say Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u312	No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u313	Yes? Well, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u314	No, but time is running out, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u315	Very briefly. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! High Izbo! This case concerns three laws. My colleagues will be talking about the other two. I'm just gonna focus on printing 3602. In fact, the Act deals with VAT sealing. At the moment, there is probably broad support in our society for the very idea of sealing VAT, while there is less awareness that in fact the costs of all this are usually borne by the employer, the entrepreneur. Entrepreneurs also understand this situation and generally agree, but their view that they need to adapt to different changes needs to be taken into account. This is a big logistical, financial and other challenge for them. Because of that, Your Honor... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I said, your honor? I'm sorry, but I'm still doing my job. For this reason, High Izbo, we want to make an amendment that changes, pushes the deadline for implementing this split payment, this payment to start with the new year. I'm so happy for you. There is at the moment no Chairman of the Finance Committee who supported this law, i.e. This change, as we know, together with businessmen. I hope that the Minister has already been able to consult, that he will also agree. It even helps me seal it. Greater public support, including entrepreneurs, will translate into greater efficiency of this and easier to put up with these difficulties, because they are really organizational difficulties. Thank you very much, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u316	Court? Again, court?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u317	... High Izbo, and I will allow myself to make amends. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u318	Okay, thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u319	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I also wanted to make an amendment, which I tabled at the first reading stage, but I finally withdrew from it at the first reading stage, reserving that I would submit it at the second reading stage. The amendment concerns the same treatment of vegetable drinks equivalent to cow's milk, i.e. plant drinks made of soya, nuts, cereal drinks which are of the same nature as products of animal origin, which are not tolerated by some people due to certain health, allergic, etc. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd just like to explain, Minister, that it's not like someone who drinks, I don't know, peanut milk, coconut milk, rice or soy is carrying out some kind of fanaber. No, it is often the case that these people simply, without tolerating products of animal origin, are actually exclusively dependent on products of plant origin. Therefore, they should not be discriminated against and charged with the need to pay a higher VAT rate, which is in line with European Union legislation. It is one of the Council directives, which precisely states that equivalent products for milk should be subject to the same VAT as milk, which, according to the proposal we are discussing here, is to be subject to a VAT rate of 5%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u320	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, on behalf of my colleagues at the club, would like to draw attention to the inconsistencies of our government's actions. On the one hand, with the VAT matrix, we try to make it easier for ourselves, maybe very well, that we try to make it easy and simple, but on the other hand, we don't care at all about the expenses of the Ministry of Health. We reduce VAT on junk food, and at the same time we have a budget to fight first-degree diabetes. We're spending money. Organisations of various kinds, including NGOs, spend huge money on fighting obesity. Something's wrong here. The government, even one that is not coalitional, should be consistent in its message. Do we care about the health of Poles, or do we just want the Ministry of Finance to matter? This approach is further illustrated by the government's ministry. What about the health department, how the Ministry of Finance says that it simplifies counting, simplifies documents? What is the cost, then, Minister, in terms of the resources spent on prevention and the fight against the obesity of children and young people? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u322	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I will present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance, print no.3681, to such a combined bill, combined with two projects, because this print no.3681 combines two independent projects, print no.3255 and 3602. The VAT project, print 3602, did not raise much attention and controversy since it concerned, and still concerns, the replacement of the reverse charge mechanism for the compulsory split payment mechanism. This mechanism covers all goods and services which are currently subject to a reverse charge, i.e. scrap, steel, fuel, waste and electronics, as well as transactions involving parts and accessories of motor vehicles, coal and coal products, electrical machinery and equipment, parts and accessories thereof. Unfortunately, the deadline for entering into force of these proposals in the original printing of 1 September 2019 is too short a period for entrepreneurs to be able to properly prepare themselves, adapt the online accounting system in their companies. I would like to express my satisfaction that the amendment concerning the revision of this deadline has taken place. I think we'll just be in favour of extending that term. The second project aroused much more comments, had more inconsistencies. It's about print number 3255. Several amendments were therefore also made in substance. We support the amendments adopted so far by the committee and as a club we make one amendment which would extend the list of articles, goods covered by the 5% VAT rate to organic products. We believe that the display of these articles subject to lower VAT, i.e. environmental, healthy, would be of great benefit to consumers, for example because of their price, but also to producers of these articles. Mr. Marshal! I'm making an amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u324	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Piotr Pyzik has the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a rather rhetorical question, resulting from the general situation and the discussion, which is not only going on in this Chamber. Namely, the change in the matrix of VAT rates, very reasonable and ultimately eliminating most interpretational ambiguities, however contains a terrible blow. The financing of a reduction in rates, among others. for bread, baby food or diapers from raising the stakes on octopus and caviar seems cruel. Doesn't the Minister of Finance fear that some questions will soon be raised before the Court of Justice of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u326	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, my question, my point concerns the wording of the article. Point 20. Currently, point 20 in the new wording, in the processing part, is very vague and difficult to apply in practice. Wouldn't it be better to refer to the definition of the processing of goods derived from their own agricultural activities, processed products, to the arrangements in force in the laws on personal income tax... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u328	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the lawmaking process in this case. The number of amendments tabled, including self-corrections, which are very important, is enormous. Have you consulted these ideas with people in the industry, farmers, processors, sadists, all those you want to touch with this bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u330	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about vacathio legis. It is no secret that it is July 18th, and the bill is to enter into force on September 1st, which is just over 1 month from now. Minister! Let me put it this way: today my friends wrote to me, who actually have this opportunity, that they might ask the Member directly, and asked me if I knew anything about the entry into force of the new split payment. I said, yes, these regulations will probably come into force from September 1st. On the other hand, how many thousands or millions are such entrepreneurs who do not have a friend or who simply focus on doing business rather than following the current work of the Sejm in order to see what new they can bring us in two or three weeks, or in one month or one and a half months? Minister! We talked about this yesterday. The date was indicated on October 1st. Mr Długi has tabled an amendment proposing that this deadline be set for 1 January 2020. I am simply asking you to take into account the prospects of entrepreneurs here. I am able to understand that gentlemen, the Minister and the Director, you are acting in the light of the optics of the Ministry of Finance, but please, at times, accept this optics of entrepreneurs, who in fact maintain both the Ministry of Finance and all of us gathered here in this Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u332	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the club's speech I paid attention to the ministry of our government and the lack of attention by the Ministry of Finance to the costs incurred for the health of Polish families by the Ministry of Finance. It's about reducing VAT to junk food. I wanted to ask how you estimated the costs for the Polish budget resulting from the increase in obesity due to the reduction in VAT for garbage food. Second question: what would be the damage to the budget - seemingly in my view - if we lowered VAT on organic food to 5% ? In my opinion, it would simply be a profit for the Polish budget if Polish families, Polish citizens would not be sick and work in health for the rest of their lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u334	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Tadeusz Kościński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Pyzik's question. No, we are not afraid that this will be contested to the EUSF. Mr Masłowski. It's point 20, as I understand the question correctly, we're just sending it to PIT. We will answer in writing to clarify this, make sure that we understand the question correctly. Mr Skutecki. Yes, there were very broad, even extended consultations. Mr Grabowski. There's no more... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, I'm sorry. Vacatio legis. We hear a very loud signal. We're considering it as much as possible. I think it'll be considered on the committee. We will support this as much as possible. Probably January 1st, as I mentioned yesterday, is not the best time to implement such changes. From my personal experience, I know that throughout the holiday period banking systems and systems in commerce are already used to the maximum extent and there is no change to be made at this point. Then I guess it'll be a different term. We're considering it as much as possible. Mr Sachraiko... [[Third version of my name today.]] Excuse me. [[He's not Chess.]] We'll answer in writing because we didn't count, and it's complicated. Absolutely. The purpose of this bill was not to make it health-promoting or anti-healthy, just to simplify the tables... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u336	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws (prints No 3616 and No 3661). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws, contained in print No 3616, entered the Sejm on 9 July 2019 and was subsequently addressed to the first reading in the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry. The Commission at its meeting on 17 July in the first place in accordance with Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have examined the application to proceed to the project within a period of less than a 7-day period, since 6 days have elapsed since the date of referral to the committee on 11 July. The proposal was adopted by 13 votes to none, with seven votes against and one abstention. At first reading, a request was first made to reject the project at first reading. A request for a public hearing was also submitted on 4 August. Both of these proposals were rejected by the committee in the vote: 8 votes in favour, 15 against, 0 abstentions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of this law is to speed up proceedings and re-bureaucratise procedures related to environmental impact assessments of projects. Investors are looking forward to this, especially local authorities. The Government of Law and Justice has prepared - unprecedented in height - support for municipalities and powiats for the reconstruction of local roads of PLN 6 billion. The communities of cities, municipalities and powiats are pleased to finally have the renovation, modernisation and construction of new roads, which will create better conditions for business and commuting to work, schools and will make life easier for people, and the mayors, mayors and starosts are concerned that they will not be able to prepare project documentation for planned and so expected investments, because the extension of the assessment of the environmental impact of the planned projects makes it impossible to undertake further stages of the project work, prepare appropriate technical documentation, publish tenders and start the planned investments. The second, and no less important, objective of the draft law under discussion today in print 3616 is to ensure full transposition of Directive 2011/92/EU and to take account of at least some of the allegations arising from the letter of formal notice sent by the European Commission in March 2019 - that is, infringement 2019/2024 in the field of incorrect transposition - by introducing a new solution in Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 a law which will enable the Regional Environment Director to consult other competent authorities on the basis of the type of investment in case of cross-border environmental impact of a project carried out in another Member State of the European Union, e.g. the opinion of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the environmental impact of the offshore pipeline. Secondly, it will allow clarification of the Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) c Act by indicating that the description of the project should include an estimate of the expected residues and emissions and waste generated not only at the stage of operation of the project but also at the stage of its formation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since, at first reading, there were allegations in the debate of the project that it was incompatible with European Union law, I would like to stress with all my power that, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the project is in line with European Union law. [[Interesting.]] In line with the timetable for the work submitted to the European Commission, it would be good for the Sejm to adopt the law in July this year. The issue is therefore particularly important. I am therefore very surprised, as rapporteur for this project, that, after rejecting the above-mentioned proposals, which were obviously to delay the work on the bill, Members of the opposition clubs did not work on the bill and were not even present, with the exception of two Members, at the committee meeting. High Izbo! The proposal amends three legal acts, i.e. Environmental Information and Protection Act, Construction Law Act and Environmental Law Act. It concerns three types of procedures related to environmental impact assessments, i.e. First, strategic environmental impact assessments, second, environmental impact assessments, and third, cross-border environmental impact assessments. And now, briefly, about the solutions proposed in the project. First, with regard to these strategic environmental impact assessments. Firstly, it will be necessary to remove the need to assess all local land-use plans and to leave such an obligation only to those plans which provide a framework for projects likely to have a significant impact on the environment. Secondly, it will be possible to derogate from the strategic evaluation for newly created local plans, not just for their changes, as it is now. The beneficiary of this new solution will be local authorities who, after 10 years of operation of the law, see that a mandatory assessment of each local plan is not necessary. Thirdly, it will be possible to eliminate the need for a strategic evaluation in the case of draft documents which are prepared solely for national defence or civil defence purposes, as well as financial or budgetary projects. These are the issues concerning strategic impact assessments. On the other hand, in the field of environmental impact assessments, the project provides, on the one hand, facilities for public administrations and, on the other hand, facilitations for entities planning to implement projects or preparing strategic documents which define the framework for the implementation of investments. An example of this is e.g. enable the investor to submit documents to request an environmental decision in electronic form or exempt it from the obligation to include extracts from land registers, which may be several dozen, even several hundred. Especially in the case of linear investments, such as roads or railway roads, this solution is not only a financial relief, but also shortens the time needed to obtain these documents. This time can sometimes be really long. Secondly, there will be a reduction in the Director-General's burden on environmental protection and regional environmental directors in order to speed up the adoption of environmental decisions for key infrastructure projects relevant to regional and national development. First, it will be the transfer of the Director-General's powers as referred to in Article. 76 Act, Regional Environment Director for the control of environmental decisions issued by local government units. In addition, there will be a transfer of the regional environmental director's competence to the authorities of local government units in matters in which the municipality is an investor and in matters relating to closed areas, but with the exception of closed areas established by the Minister for National Defence, as the projects carried out in these areas are of particular importance for defence and State security. Third, in the article. 74. 3a The law will change the concept of the area to which the project will affect and, consequently, confer the quality of the party to the proceedings, making these concepts independent of the division of the geodetic area, i.e. the boundaries of the registration parcels, which should not affect the substantive aspects of the impact of the investment. As you know, the impact here is associated with distance, which is working in favour of all the neighbours, because it is not enough to have a narrow strip of parcels adjacent to the investment, it is only said to be a distance from the plot that is subject to investment. Fourthly, the parties to the proceedings shall be notified to the notice in accordance with Article. 49 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, when their number is greater than 10, and not as it is now, when their number is greater than 20. Fifthly, in the article. 1 amendment of the 25th draft is added Article. 86d Act, according to which suspension of proceedings on the issue of environmental decisions will take place only at the request of the investor and not at the request of all parties. The point is that the suspension of proceedings is a procedural act, this action does not affect the substantive examination or settlement of the case, so this provision can be shaped. Sixth, there will be an elimination of the obligation not to carry out an environmental impact assessment. The body will find that there is no such obligation in the environmental decision, because we are currently dealing with some kind of duality, i.e. a decision in this regard both in the decision and in the decision. This is simply an unnecessary element of the procedure. Seven o'clock, in the article. 2 The Construction Law is amended to seal the investment process and to more transparently link environmental and construction rules by indicating directly the cases in which environmental decisions are required prior to the construction start, as well as clarifying the catalogue of activities that change the way the building is used or part of it. The change in the record removes the existing interpretation doubts and clearly indicates that a change in the way of use will be undertaken in the building site of such an activity, which is one of the projects requiring environmental decision. And a third group of issues related to cross-border environmental impact assessments. This is what the project envisages in this regard. First, in the amended Article. 108 The projector abolishes the obligation for the investor to translate documentation into official languages of all countries in which the implementation of the investment can affect the environment if it affects more than two countries. In practice, this means that the documentation can be translated into English. Unless Poland is e.g. related to a specific country to some bilateral agreement which gives rise to commitments in this respect. This will clearly translate into a reduction in expenditure related to translation of documents. Secondly, the project abolishes the obligation for an investor to translate documents which are not required in the light of the current rules of international law and the transfer of them to vulnerable parties has so far generated additional costs. Thirdly, the amendments to the translation of the necessary documentation have also been introduced in the provisions standardising cross-border proceedings for draft strategy papers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the detailed work on the project, one substantive amendment was introduced concerning the amendment to Article 29. 1, concerning the retention of point 2 in Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. The first version of this amendment was that points 2 and 3 are deleted. It is now noted that point 3, point 2 of that paragraph is deleted. 4 stays. This will make it necessary to translate the request for a decision for the affected country, as this request should be given in the official language of that country. This is what another provision of this law says, so if we removed point 2, there would be a contradiction in this case. This single substantive amendment has also been introduced in the text of the project. 31 amendments were also made by the Legislative Bureau, which were accepted by the government. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole project contained in the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry was adopted by 13 votes in favour, with 2 votes against and no abstentions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law will significantly facilitate the process of environmental impact assessment procedures. It will be the legal act for which local authorities, entrepreneurs and many circles of our society are waiting, and ultimately local communities, who are waiting for all the necessary investments to improve their quality of life. Therefore, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I ask you kindly to adopt the draft law contained in the committee's report in print No 3661. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u338	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact prices and certain other laws. The draft law presented by the government in print No 3616 aims to simplify and streamline the procedures for preparing and issuing decisions relating to the impact of investments that are intended to be carried out by investors, on the environment and public participation in them. The solutions proposed in the draft law aim to reduce bureaucratic burdens and simplify legislation. The proposed changes concern those aspects of environmental decision-making which constitute real barriers to investors, but also significantly hamper the activities of state institutions, especially regional environmental directors. The removal of these barriers seems reasonable and does not jeopardise the achievement of environmental objectives, especially since the project also introduces important solutions to seal the investment process rules in the context of the powers of the architectural and construction authorities. The project is also in line with the objectives of sectoral documents, including, inter alia, with the objectives of optimising the administrative procedures set out in the 2020 strategy. The adoption of the Act will be particularly important in the face of investment in Poland which is crucial for the economic development of the country, especially in the field of road and rail infrastructure. The draft was discussed in very detail by the rapporteur. So I'm just going to narrow it down to those elements of the project that are of great interest, that is, the parties' participation in the proceedings and the definition of the party. The project, which must be clearly stated, extends the number of parties to proceedings when issuing environmental decisions, maintaining the status of the party, as enshrined in the amended Act, not only owners of parcels adjacent to the investment parcel, but also extends it to owners of neighbouring parcels within a radius of 100 m. And it's whether they're bordering on the investment or not. In addition, it gives the status of the parties to all those who are in the area of possible negative effects of the investment on their property if such effects are demonstrated. A clear definition of the party leads to realization and acceleration and a reduction in costs for public investment, the roads, railways and bridges I have already mentioned. It should also be made clear that the proposed project does not alter the status of organisations and associations as regards their participation in the decision-making process of administrative authorities, although expectations, in particular of municipalities, are clearly stated in order to organise this participation. The project also improves the process of issuing administrative decisions by municipalities in the case of public investments for which the municipality is an investor, while maintaining full regional control of the environmental director over compliance with nature conservation regulations, local law acts. Procedures for failure to carry out an environmental impact assessment shall be abolished. This will be stated once in the decision. A very important change in cross-border procedures is the abolition of the obligation for an investor to translate documentation into the official languages of all countries. If this applies to more than two countries, it will be English. This is in line with the ESPOO Convention. Such a solution will significantly reduce costs on the part of the investor. The explanatory memorandum attached to the draft provides an in-depth and convincing justification for each of the amendments made. For such a clear and clear justification, I very much thank the authors of the project - the Minister, the Director. The project at the meetings of the Environment Committee was well worked, the amendments of the Legislative Bureau and the whole were discussed and accepted - positively assessed by the Commission. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, after reading the committee's report and accompanying it [[♪ The bell ♪]] draft, print No 3661, fully supports it and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u340	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A project with the title of public participation in environmental protection is being conducted, but this title is unfortunately misleading, because it is currently being sought to reduce public participation in environmental protection and to reduce environmental information. [[On the contrary, sir.]] I believe that this bill is a bad law, from which - even if the ruling majority will approve it, and probably so - we will withdraw and update after several scandals that will happen after its introduction, as was the case with the infamous lex Szyszko. We cannot agree to dismantle the public's participation in issuing environmental decisions, to depart from social control, especially where it is in the interests of the rulers - all the rulers. It is a project that will make it very easy for developers to work, but will make it very difficult to control the social side. Besides, these comments were simply omitted. There is no sign of a shortening of the road with often dragging environmental decisions, how to speed up the working mode in the Regional Environment Directorate, but a significant social factor is drawn from the control elements of the whole system. A few examples. One: In trying to make life easier for investors and officials, the General Environment Director proposes to limit the number of parties entitled to participate in environmental decision-making procedures. Currently, all owners of parcels adjacent to the one on which the investment is to be made are parties to the proceedings, and now we have a new circumstance, because if this law enters into force, only the owners of those parcels located no more than 100 metres from the investment site, whose boundaries do not have to overlap with the boundaries of the investor's parcel. In practice, what does that mean? That the group of persons entitled to participate in the control procedure will be much smaller than before. And if this was about making things better, speeding it up, we'd be great at that. They understood, because we know local government issues, I was a local governmentman myself, but this is clearly about taking away many people's chances of effectively defending themselves against the bad effects of some investments. Another example. Removing the possibility of deciding on environmental conditions when the applicant is a local authority. According to these amendments, the decision-making authority and decision-making body may be the same institution. In other words, there could be a situation in which, for example, The uncle will make the decision himself, and then he will approve it himself. After all, this is a clear conflict of interest and this also constitutes the basis for an appeal under Union law. So to sum up, consider once again whether or not to take into account the amendments that we are about to make.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Leader, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u343	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act is an anti-natural and anti-social law. This is an incapacity of society only for the profit of a small group of entrepreneurs. Who's gonna make money out of this? Let's ask the designers here. I think you can call it a lex developer or a lex Kowalczyk, thanks to the name of the minister who's the company. [[Member, you can read it first and then you will speak.]] The aim of the Act is to limit the right of persons directly affected by burdensome investments. You exchange roads, railways and bridges, and I'll say a lot more, because the bill lists e.g. The museum in Westerplatte, the excavation of Vistula mine, but this also applies to animal breeding and slaughter, and we are in the environmental commission. [[This is already a linear investment, Member.]] We are talking about landfills, dumps, waste incineration plants and, in particular, fur farms - I think they are waiting for this bill, please. These farms, their locations are most often caused by social protests, protests from local communities. This will also weaken the procedure for assessing the environmental impact of these investments, i.e. an ordinary man will not be able to do anything, exactly nothing, even though 100 m from his house a pigsty will be built. Do you really want to do this to people? In cooperation with the social side, i.e. the Studio for All Beings, and ClientEarth - Lawyers for Earth, we make five amendments to eliminate these harmful changes, the provisions in the bill. I would like to say that as regards the non-compliance with European Union law, which you have mentioned is not happening, it is only [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will assess how the European Union is going to respond. I don't think the ministry will be enough. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u344	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u345	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws, print No 3616. This is the case when a good project is presented in mode and in accordance with rules that prevent accurate knowledge of it, so there is often an unjustified taking of a position. It's different after looking at the case. It is a pity that the Ministry of the Environment did not keep the rules of procedure, then there would certainly not be such criticism of the bill under review. This bill is not as bad as it seems superficially. It certainly responds to investors' needs and protects the social interest in making environmental information available and protecting it, secures public participation in environmental protection and offers opportunities to invest in areas that do not need to be subject to some extraordinary environmental protection. Of course, there is a danger that the decisions of the law may be far-fetched, but in this case there are control procedures for both investor interest and environmental safety to be preserved. It is good that the Ministry of the Environment listens to the voices, suggestions made by the Regional Environmental Directorates and entities planning the implementation of the projects. The Kukiz Members' Club15 will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u346	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. You don't have an MP, do you? Then let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, I would like to invite you. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What other options, in addition to the distance criterion, were considered when amending the Article. 74. 3a point 1 of the Act? Why is the distance criterion chosen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki? No, thank you, Mr Paweł Skutecki. Mr Grzegorz July.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first question concerns the facilitation of environmental decisions for various large investments. I would like to ask, because there is a record of housing investments and accompanying investments carried out under the Law on facilitation in preparation, what these accompanying investments are and what this provision is all about, what it is all about. Secondly, I have a question about the European issues mentioned by the rapporteur. Namely, according to the data I have, this amendment violates the provisions of the Aarhus Convention, which concerns the provision of access to justice to the public and participation in plans and decisions on environmental matters. [[This is a convention, not a law of the European Union.]] Such examples include narrowing the scope of projects requiring a strategic environmental impact assessment - Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 is followed by a limitation of the number of parties to proceedings for the adoption of decisions on environmental conditions - Article. 74. 3a point 1. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In our view, this is a violation of this convention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u351	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! Under the pressure of the ski lobby, the regulation will enable the construction of ski investments without any social and institutional control up to 5 ha in national and landscape parks... [[Voice from the O.R.: Finally.]] ... nature reserves and areas of the Natura 2000 area. The absence of a procedure will result in investment in breach of the rules in place in protected areas. Nature will suffer, whose protection is in the public interest. Are you aware of what you're doing? Thank you. [[We do.]] [[We do, we do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u352	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have this question, Minister: Will, and how, the proposed amendment will improve the possibilities of combating illegal waste treatment and disposal, including. under the pretext of rehabilitating the area or other similar activities? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u354	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u355	I have the impression that this law is implementing the priority of investment over the environment. This seems strange because all the signals we are receiving from around the world at the moment turn out to be like this: this environment must be a priority, it must be more important than making investments. This does not mean that investments are not to be carried out in the easiest way possible, but must be done with the head. How did you, in principle, take the neighbourhood, which is the neighborhood principle in terms of environmental change, take these 100 meters? Or, for example, In the case of a giant greenhouse that shines so that the night is gone, will it suffice 100 m? You could multiply dozens of examples of various types of investment that affect 100 m is an absurd distance. [[So far there's only been a neighbor, and now it's 100 meters away.]] Yeah, but if you change it, it makes sense, of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking about these 100 m in case of e.g. such investments, but also many, many others. [[Voice from the room: We know all this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u356	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! We have already had a debate at the agriculture committee on several occasions about the huge problems of investment difficulties in agricultural areas. Farmers can't grow, there's been difficulties for years, so I'm glad there's gonna be some facilitation. At the same time, the law is not entirely precise in my opinion, because e.g. we have this paragraph: except for a project whose implementation can have a significant impact on the Natura 2000 area. I am afraid of this word meaning, because for one it is significant one, and for another it can be significant another. Farmers may have a problem with building or obtaining investment permits quickly, efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u358	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Ms Małgorzata Golińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u359	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! This bill we're talking about today is one of the keys. It regulates environmental issues in the investment process, hence it arouses great emotions, because it affects local governments and directly citizens. I understand the many concerns your Members have indicated, but I think that we should keep in mind what has actually been written in the project and not presume not to find something that is not in this project. This is extremely important. I think then these emotions are going to be a lot smaller. I will not refer in detail to the provisions of the law, because the rapporteur has done so, but I will refer, let me say, to these doubts. I will start with Mr Sachaika, who quoted the records just now. These are the provisions arising directly from the Habitats Directive and the EIA Directive. Therefore, this is not our interpretation or attempt to write in the bill. As regards Mrs Lieder's allegation of allowing the location of ski resorts, there is no need for procedures. There were very serious allegations here, but I would like to point out that what you are talking about may be in the regulation and today we are talking about a draft law. Those records you said you didn't have at all are two different things. As far as distance is concerned, that is the criterion that you asked from Kukiz15... [[Maybe. 100 yards or a mile?]] ...the various options were actually considered. This distance criterion has been chosen, but it is worth pointing out that it is not true that we are disassembling public participation - this was alleged by Mr July - that we are obstructing the control of the social side, we are limiting the number of parties, because only those parcels that are 100 m away from this investment will be able to be a party. It is therefore worth quoting the wording in the draft: The party to proceedings for the decision on environmental conditions is the applicant and the entity who has the right in rem to property located in the area to which the undertaking will act in the option proposed by the applicant. This area means the envisaged area in which the project is to be carried out and the area located 100 m from the borders of the site. We keep reading because it's not over. If we were done with this, it would be true, but we read further, because there are also plots on which, as a result of the implementation, operation or use of the project, the environmental quality standards would be exceeded, or - an additional point - parcels within the scope of the significant impact of the project, which may introduce restrictions on the development of the property in accordance with its current purpose. This is a much broader context than we have, for example. today, because today, in terms of linear investment, as was mentioned at the committee meeting, including, for example, the parcels occupied by water flowing, we will strive to do so, and this project aims to reduce the number of participants. On the other hand, in situations where, for example, 50 m from the planned farm mentioned here, whether the windmill has a residential building, if there is a road between the investment and the location of the building, today this person or this citizen can no longer be a party. He is excluded from this procedure today, even though he directly feels the negative impact of this investment. We want to do the exact opposite today, we want to expand it, so that also those whose parcels do not border directly with the plot on which the investment is located so that the owners of such parcels can also be a party. As I said, it is not only the distance criterion but also the environmental quality criterion and the limitation criterion for use that is important here. There has been a charge that the entire investment will be approved by the uncle himself and will agree with himself. That's not true. The entire administrative burden is borne by the governor, the mayor or the president of the city, while on environmental issues, the subject matter is to be assessed under the responsibility of the WDOŚ. This is a binding agreement for him - not an opinion, but an agreement that is binding on him. These are probably additional burdens for local authorities, and consequently they lead to a decisive acceleration in the resolution of many issues or proceedings. The project was also assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. Some of the comments submitted by the local authorities were also taken into account in the project. There have been a lot of comments about the non-compliance of the project with Union law, referring to the Aarhus Convention. The Convention is not a law of the Union. In our view, all requirements have been preserved here, but we are removing overregulations. I think that's all the questions that have come up. In general, the quality of environmental decisions or all decisions relating to new proceedings cannot be obscured... They are extremely important, arise in the first stage and generate the entire follow-up. I don't think we should be afraid that nature will somehow be protected worse. Today we are talking about sustainable development, that is, when on the one hand we see the need and give tools for our country and our small homelands to develop, but to do so with respect for the rights of nature, the preservation of its interests, as well as the recognition of citizens' rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u360	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jarosław Sachajko submitted a corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Minister! I don't think you understand my question. I was talking about the fact that, due to the inconspicuous provisions in the bill, the introduction of the facilitations that we are all asking for, which farmers are asking for, may not be possible. Investment decisions will continue to be dragged because there's a record here that says that significant impact... It's not specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u362	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you for the votes that were put in the discussion, also for the critical votes. We always consider them. [[Us? Who's that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister at the committee meeting said that a lot of the social side's comments were taken into account in this project. This is your chance. I always encourage you to take part and, so to speak, not to miss the committee's deliberations, but to participate actively in the work. This is an opportunity - good opposition has a chance to contribute to improving the quality of the law. I think it's a truism that really needs to be repeated. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The bill we're talking about... The question concerning the definition of the Minister's website has already been clarified in detail. I'm not gonna say it again. The criteria set out in paragraph 1. 3a is so clear that each logically thinking person will accept this remark. I would also like to draw attention to the second aspect of this proposal, namely to ensure full transposition of the Directive. March reservations from the European Commission... The Government shall implement this as soon as possible, unlike the predecessors who have left 21 infringement proceedings in the European Union. This is what we found at the beginning of this term. Now the government is very thorough in implementing all the changes in our law that result from the European Commission's speeches. It's got its rank, too. I think that this aspect should be particularly important for Euro-enthusiastic groups. [[What question do you answer?]] We are removing the allegations, as is apparent from the European Commission's letter of formal notice, so the act of this law is multilateral. I therefore encourage you to vote on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u364	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u365	Art. 48 in print No 3616 provides that the body drawing up the draft amendment of the document referred to in Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 I, point 3, may, after agreement with the competent authority referred to in Article. 57, refrain from carrying out a strategic environmental impact assessment if it considers that the implementation of the provisions of this amendment will not have a significant impact on Natura 2000 sites. I therefore have a question: How will the adoption of such a solution differ in practice with regard to the design of the revision of documents so far?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u366	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment... [[Objection, Marshal.]] ... Natural resources and forestry in order to report. If I don't hear any objection... [[Objection.]] ...I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection, Marshal.]] This is the third time I've heard it. Mrs Anna Paluch objects. Then the opposition will be settled in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 56 hours 19 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law. It's print number 3682. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence on the draft law amending the Law on Education (prints No 3548 and 3671). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence, published in print No 3671, on the draft law amending the Education Law in print No 3548. The Joint Committees: Education, Science and Youth and National Defence, after their first reading on 17 July 2019, considered this draft law. During the work on this bill, the government's position towards this project, which is positive, was presented by the Minister of National Education, Mr Maciej Kopeć. Ten amendments were tabled in the course of the bill - amendments which were precisely the result of the government's position. They consisted in clarifying the powers of the Minister for National Defence and the MEN in terms of creating conditions and rules for schools, military classes in secondary schools. These amendments, which were introduced into the law, also defined the powers of local authorities, the powers of the Minister of National Defence, clarified the rules of recruitment, and accepted the fitness test as a preliminary test for recruitment to these schools. The amendments have been accepted. On behalf of the joint committees, I ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u368	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Siarkowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of acting today before the High House on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the revision of the Education Law. This law concerns the operation of military uniform classes. It is worth noting that we are not making any revolutionary changes here. This is simply a legal and organisational arrangement of the facts. The Act does not introduce any additional tasks for schools and local authorities, but sets out the statutory framework for the functioning of so-called. Military prep units, military uniform classes. In Poland today there are about 500 schools with such classes, while the training programs that are implemented in these classes, or the level of theoretical and practical classes are very diverse. In order to ensure uniformity of educational standards in these classes, both in practical and theoretical training, changes should be made to the Educational Law which will ensure standardization of teaching in these classes. Thanks to the novel, we will ensure uniform standards of military training in the so-called. military prep units. We also want - here I refer to Members of the applicants, I am also one of the Members of the applicants signed under this law - to ensure that these uniform training standards are established in cooperation with the Ministry of National Education. As a result, graduates who complete their training in these classes will be ready to undertake further military service, they will also be able to study in military universities, because those who complete their training in these classes will be preferred in getting into such studies in military universities, as well as those who complete their training in military classrooms, will be ready to perform a short-term preparatory service, take a military oath and fund the personnel reserves of our army. It is worth noting that the current solution, which is based on the fact that schools run military classes within the framework of the so-called. pedagogical innovation, which allows directors to shape any programme in these classes, for example, is detrimental to the defence of the state, is also detrimental to graduates of such classes, because today this training, which they hold in military classes, does not result in any specific benefits for them, for these graduates. It is worth noting that the project does not generate any new costs on the part of local governments. Until now, local governments, or bodies running schools, had to cover all the costs. This project changes that. On the side of the Ministry of National Education there will be an increase in educational subsidies to cover the labour costs of teachers in these classes. To date, these costs had to be fully covered by local authorities. At the same time, the Ministry of National Defence will cover the costs of practical activities that will take place in military units cooperating with schools conducting such classes, as well as the grant to the school authority for such activities. So far, in the pilot programme, the Ministry of National Defence has allocated about PLN 4.5 million to such classes. If the costs of running such classes are higher, the funding will be covered by the managing authority. In general, the specific costs will be set out in the Regulation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act will help to strengthen the Armed Forces' personnel reserves, will also enable the Armed Forces to provide volunteers, as well as to strengthen defence education and patriotic attitudes. Therefore, on behalf of the club Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] We declare our support for this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u370	Please, Mrs Magdalena Ewa Marek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u371	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Coalition Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending Education Law, print No 3548 and No 3671. Uniform, military, police, Border Guard and firefighter classes have been operating in Poland for many years thanks to bottom-up initiatives, thanks to the involvement of teachers, school heads, parents and students. Over 20 years, regulations have been introduced that have enabled and improved the functioning of uniform classes. The programmes of the Minister for National Defence and the Minister for Education have been organizing these processes and cooperation that have been going on for many years. In order to fully reflect the context of the proposed amendments, a number of provisions need to be mentioned. In 2000, for the first time, the concept of uniformed classes appeared. On 9 April 2002, a regulation was issued by the Minister for National Education and Sport on the conditions for negotiating and experimental activities by public schools and institutions which gave such an opportunity. On 9 June 2009, the Minister for National Defence issued Decision 187 on the implementation of the principles of cooperation between NGOs and the social partners. This enabled experts to cooperate with schools and to enable school classes to take place on the ground and in military units. Three years later, in 2012, a list of schools was established in the Ministry, which was extended to include further schools that introduced an extension of classes in terms of safety education. The formation of uniform classes coincided with the increase in social activity within the framework of pro-defence organisations. Today's 50,000. students learn in schools when it comes to uniformed classes. This shows how much interest young people have in uniform services. The planned amendment of the law is an attempt to formalise those classes which have been in the education system for years. The solutions contained in the project aim at the possibility of organising military preparations in secondary schools. Military education is to be carried out as an objective independent of education for security. The role of the Minister of National Defence is large. He will participate in the activities of these classes, in the creation, organization, but also in training in military units. The Act is due to enter into force on 1 January 2020. Recruitment is to take place in the spring, while from 1 September 2020 these classes are to be formally launched according to this amendment. It is also worth mentioning that a pilot programme has been in place since 2017. In 2017, the Ministry allocated almost PLN 3 million to it. In 2018 - PLN 4.5 million. The proposals that have been drawn up under this pilotage will be included in the Minister's Regulation. The project, however, has flaws. One of the drawbacks is that it introduces changes in the functioning of local government units, introduces new tasks for schools and bodies running these schools. There is such an iron rule that no new tasks cannot be introduced without additional funding. The minister at the committee meeting said that this funding would be provided, so we hold the Minister's word. I regret the fact that there was no opinion of the local government, and yet in the case of parliamentary projects such opinion should be. The second problem that is evident in this amendment, in the Education Law, is that of about 50,000. Unicycle students only learn part in military classes. For this project to be comprehensive so that this project does not need amendments should be made at this stage in a few months. Because the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition believes that a military-grade student is just as important as a student of any other uniform, police or fire class. That is why, at this point, I would like to hand over to the Marshal the amendment that the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club is reporting. I would like to say that this bill is needed and the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u372	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are currently considering a draft law on amending the Education Law Act. He really deals with the subject of uniform classes and meets the expectations we've had for some time. Let's face it, these classes exist. They function in a certain system we have. At the moment they are charging their financial costs to local government budgets. At the same time, they also have no such thing as a consolidated educational programme, such as a single education programme that would function in these classes. At the moment, however, this project goes against the fact that, at least in military classes, in uniform classes, this program was unified in order to subject it to a certain control of the Ministry of National Defence. In my opinion, it is somewhat unjustified to say that local governments bear any costs or in any way are injured, because the Ministry clearly states that it will finance this project. This is a project that even makes it easier for local governments to act. Is there a need to consult the local government within the framework of the parliamentary projects? They're not needed at all, with anyone. We don't even need BAS's opinion in this whole system. [[What do you mean, no? Why do you even need to make them?]] But that's what it looks like, it's legal. You don't have to do this. We agree on that, don't we? We can do this, but we don't have to, there's no obligation, especially in the case of... [[We don't agree.]] It doesn't matter whether you agree or not. The important thing is that it's the law. [[Well, it's not.]] And there's something else that local governments get paid for it. I don't know what kind of harm they'd have done for it. Of course, there's one more thing we could say. It is a pity that this applies only to military uniform classes, that it does not apply to other uniform classes. This is an element that we should pay attention to, that the government should go in that direction, that the parliamentary majority should go in that direction. The aim is also to solve problems concerning police classes and fire classes. This isn't about MON, it's about the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I hope this ministry will go in this direction too. It seems to me that the harmonisation of a certain education programme, the provision of funding that will help local governments to finance these classes, are only positive. I personally talked to the heads of several schools that have such classes. They're all in favour of it, because it's a lot of relief and a lot of help for them. In my opinion, there is nothing to argue about in this case. This is a good project. It must be supported and only asked the government to extend it to other uniform classes so that we can educate people in the case of all the services so that these people have the same opportunities that will now have military uniform classes. It is about speeding up the ability to reach the level of being a reservist, to the level of these elements of entry into the structure of the Polish Army's reserve. These are the people we need in the police, in the fire department and in the army. So that all you have to do is develop this program. We as Kukiz.15 will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas presented his position in writing. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński has the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u375	We're talking about profiling at school. I have doubts about the statutory delegation to issue a regulation by the Minister of Education regarding the conditions, listen to the organisation and operation of military preparation units in such a way as to enable students to reconcile military education classes with science by the appropriate organisation of teaching classes. Gentlemen of the Ministry, we are not talking about paramilitary troops or youth paramilitary units. We're talking about the integrity of education. How can military education be countered by science? Are we on a school show or not? What kind of activity can we talk about at school? What kind of action? This isn't about military troops, it's about school units. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Plus, in the mouth. 2 is about practical military skills. Please answer in writing what practical military skills a 16-year-old is to acquire. I wish I knew. [[What 16-year-old?]] Yeah, a 16-year-old.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is: Has anyone studied the interest of young people in such branches? Were there any studies that showed what part of this youth would like to benefit from, what part of it is simply interested in such branches? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u379	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I have a question about military prep teams that will require permission. It is known that permission can be given, but it can also be revoked. Is there a path prepared? What will happen to the students in these branches after the permit has been revoked? Will these students be able to continue their studies at the same school, only in another class? Do you have any idea? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u380	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question because today it is that the Ministry of National Defence sometimes supports some troops preparing young people in military matters with their resources. I would like to ask whether this law will improve the situation of school uniforms, whether it will give better opportunities for financial support in terms of the cost of uniforming or covering other activities related to the existence and functioning of these branches. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u382	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question I'd like to address to the Ministry of Education. If the proposed amendment translates into the intended effects, further changes can be expected in this direction, taking into account the introduction of school preparation units for the services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as subsequent, which is expected to eliminate the so-called. uniform classes run without corresponding standards, as a kind of marketing trick for a given school? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u384	Thank you. Mr Paweł Papke.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u385	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to raise one of the points mentioned here and by Mrs Magdalena Marek and Mr Bartosz Józwiak and other parliamentarians. However, in the context of this revision of the Law, should not the Educational Law be approached comprehensively, so that in a few months time we do not have to revise it again? My point is: Can the Ministry and the applicant include in the proposed law all uniform classes, i.e. police, firefighters, border guards and others, and not just military preparations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u386	Thank you. Mr Jakub Rutnicki. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u387	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! We are discussing, we are discussing uniform classes in relation to the issue of the harmonisation of the education programme. I think there's absolute agreement, and that sounds like a question of why it only applies to military classes. I've spoken to the young people who choose these schools many times, and they choose these uniform classes. These classes at the beginning seem very interesting, but later, while attending these classes, there is often a fear that there are few activities that are really meant to bring this profession closer to them, that this is often limited to wearing moro at school. It is also a question of debate whether young people should be dressed in this way. Using the Minister of Education in the O.R., I wanted to ask, because my parents [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the desperate students all the time ask this question: What happened and when did one of you finally stand here and apologize for the chaos in the education you gave our young people? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! He told me what he knew.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u388	Mr Piotr Cieślinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You enter the so-called state into the Education Law Act. military preparation units, and this is only a part of uniformed class students. This is another question from the series, but very important, to which I would also like to get an answer: Why do you favour one uniform group on the one hand... [[This is a parliamentary project. Write your project.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] ...and on the other hand, you discriminate against another? That answer has already been answered here. It's probably about so well-known patriotism. So I wanted to ask: What about other professional groups, such as border guards, firefighters and others? And the basic question. Here, however, a declaration has already been made from Mr Józwiak, whom I value, I also have no less sympathy for him, but I would like to hear this assurance from the Minister. [[Applicant.]] The Minister also nodded, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this will be financed by central funds and not once again by local budgets. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u390	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Głogowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The so-called uniformed, military, police, fire department, border guards have been operating in Polish schools for many years. I myself have had the opportunity to attend the ceremony of oaths by the students of the first classes of such schools in the Technical and Service School Complex in Tarnowskie Góry. They enjoy a great deal of interest, over 50,000. students on a national scale. So far, they have functioned as a kind of pedagogical experiment, an innovation introduced by enthusiasts who came up with such a good idea. Now there's a parliamentary project that regulates the operation of military classes, and it's very good that he showed up because he's needed. On the other hand, I wanted to ask the Minister of National Education why the Ministry did not take advantage of the opportunity to process such a project in order to introduce similar solutions to other uniform classes, because if, as I understand it, the Ministry considers that these solutions for military classes are legitimate and appropriate, it would be quite simple to translate them into all other types of classes, and it seems, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we are now unnecessarily leading to the situation that there will probably be another amendment of the law moving this solution to other industries, to other uniform classes soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u392	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Uniform classes have been functioning in Poland for several years and have become the value of the Polish education system. The initiative relating to the permanent incorporation of this institution in the Act is, of course, good, only that if we are already doing so, we should do it well and in accordance with the law. There is an experiment being conducted by the Ministry of National Defence, whose proposals were intended to serve the government to introduce regulations. It's piloting. The pilot's not over, but there's a parliamentary project with huge flaws. At first reading it is actually rewritten because of the amendments of the Minister of Education and covers only a fragment of the issue. In Poland 50,000. The students learn in uniform classes. The project refers only to parts, to military classes. It changes the functioning of the local government. The government and the Marshal of the Sejm do not consult the local government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you always doing this in a messy way, against the law, not doing the job as it should be done? [[Applause]] [[You were eight years old.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u394	Thank you. Mr Michał Jach.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! This experiment, as has been said many times here, has been going on since 2000, has met with a great positive response both in schools and among students and in the environment, but only three years ago, the Ministry of National Defence was the only resort interested in this, a special team was set up and for 3 years a very good system was developed to standardise the training, the certification system of these schools. Those who enter the system, financed by the Ministry of National Defence, have uniform training and proper assessment of the results of the training. This 3-year period is coming to an end. Now it's time to formalize it. I've got that in mind, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the question to the Minister of Education: Did other departments - because this does not apply to the Ministry of Justice - prepare their own education programme, or did they show interest in such an approach as will apply to the Ministry of National Defence and already in force in the Ministry of Sport? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u396	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Uniforms are having an increasingly difficult time recruiting. In 2013, only about 40,000 people were willing to work in the Police. people per year, today it's about 20,000. And this is the pre-selection state. This selection is often very negative. It turns out that, despite the willingness to accept new officers, unfortunately we do not have enough, we cannot choose the right number of the best. I'm sure there's some kind of idea to supplement this, to lead to a situation when there's more of those willing, they're uniformed classes. Only these uniformed classes are also in the service of the MMA - these are police classes, firefighters classes. I'm afraid if you don't accept these amendments, there will be some kind of development of military classes at the expense of other uniform classes. Aren't you afraid of that? Perhaps it would be better, as my previous speakers have said, to propose a comprehensive solution now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the same support as the military classes will receive from the Ministry of National Defence can count uniformed classes - from the resources of appropriate resorts, i.e. Police classes from the MMA. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u398	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that we have prepared such a project concerning military uniform classes. Young people join these classes to increase their knowledge of military education. At the same time, we hear that the goal is to ensure that standards are uniform at school. But if we're reading that the bill will have no financial impact, I'm starting to worry if there's gonna be some kind of downward equation. It seems to me that we should allocate money for this purpose and take care of the development of military education among Polish young people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u400	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mr Maciej Kopcia.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all these questions, because solving the doubts that have arisen here, of course, is also necessary. This is certainly an important project. He got a positive opinion from the government. I am also very pleased that these comments which have been made by the government party have been made to this project, i.e. those amendments which concern the way in which the military preparations are introduced into the system, which relate to the definition of such a branch. What is important and what I will come back to is also a question of a statutory delegation for the Minister of Defence to determine, by means of a regulation, a training programme in the military preparation department, organisation and form of the training programme, the number of practical hours, theoretical hours, the conditions for the execution of the classes, and the determination of the authority of the Minister of Defence to authorise such a branch. It is also about resolving the issue of supervision of such branches, which is also important and has been taken into account. It is also a question of recruiting for this type of branch, so that it can actually be created in a way such as, for example, creation. sports teams, sports championships, sports championships or bilingual teams. So what we're talking about isn't such a novelty about the educational system, but it certainly does. It is worth mentioning once again, because this is due to the justification and from what the applicants have said about this project. It is worth reminding once again that one of the impulses to change was also the change of the rules that existed earlier, i.e., as you said, these branches were based on the provisions of the Innovation Regulation and the experiment. On the other hand, an important element of the Minister of National Education's activities related to education reform was the introduction of innovation as a provision that does not limit the activity of the school. The only element of this is an experiment that goes beyond ordinary regulations. This amendment, of course, still allows different types of branches, uniform classes to function and does not interfere with anything, but here we are dealing with something that is important and stems from the justification of this project, because the purpose of re-creation of this structure is clearly set out in the project. This is: powering the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, powering the Army of Territorial Defence with volunteers, strengthening defence education in society and patriotic attitudes among young people. So the question that is in the explanatory memorandum is the essence of creating such branches and introducing them into the educational system. In answer to the questions that have been raised many times here, why these uniform classes, rather than others, must be answered by the question of how they functioned before, what was the pilot programme and how the amendments that were introduced into this law create a new educational quality. The essence of this is the training program, which clearly states that it is implemented in classes II and III, that it counts 180 hours, that it is 3 hours a week in class. II, 3 hours a week in class III. At the same time, this piloting has shown that the training programme calculated for these hours is to be implemented and allows to achieve the intended objectives, because this is the essence of what the projectors and the Minister of Defence would like to achieve, through programme assumptions adapted to this number of hours. In order for this to work, it is necessary, on the one hand, to introduce these provisions into the framework teaching plans, as has already been mentioned. This will also result in changes to other provisions. To date, this has worked in such a way that it could be realized within the hours actually financed by the local government or the school authority, or by the hours at the disposal of the school head. On the other hand, the hours which, moreover, have been increased by our changes so that students can realise and develop their abilities will not be devoted to the implementation of this programme, but will be based on the framework curriculum. This, of course, has its further consequences, which means that in the subsidy next to standard A, i.e. the one who receives the student, this will be increased by an appropriate weight, which will allow to be implemented in classes II and III of this programme. Importantly, this programme consisted of a certain certification of schools. 107 schools were selected, in which this programme was implemented in line with the expectations of the Minister of National Defence, in order to achieve the objectives set by him. This is also important because it allows us to determine the financial consequences of this project. In other words, if in the first year of its operation, when it begins, but really it begins a year later, because it concerns pupils of class II, not classes I... There's supposed to be 120 of them at first, then 330. This allows to determine costs in the first year of operation at 520 thousand. zł. So the essence of this project, the answer to the question of why not others, is that other ministries did not appear to the Minister of National Education, and, as you can see, what the Minister of National Defence had previously carried out, and what results from the parliamentary project, corresponds to specific expectations. It is worth noting that when it comes to the Minister of National Education, together with the government's position, certain elements which have been implemented in the form of innovation, written in a different way, actually meet this expectation, i.e. the fulfilment of certain objectives set by the Minister of National Defence and the authors of this project. The important thing that resulted from the pilot programme and what the Minister of National Defence declares is the certification of such branches. In other words, it means that the real quality of the programme is not going to be walking in a moro jacket, it is going to be the implementation of a specific program, so that at the end it will achieve its goal. What has been in the pilotage so far, what was in the form of the programs, what resulted from this certification by the MON of existing troops, allows you to answer that this will not be a game in the army, it will not be walking in a moro jacket, it will be the implementation of a specific program. Another important thing for the Minister of National Education and the answer to the question of why such branches, rather than others, is the issue of supervision. As far as pedagogical supervision is concerned, he is the three-step head of the school, which is supervised by the head of the school, by the school's curator, the curator - the minister of national education. As far as general education is concerned, this supervision shall be exercised by the Director, the Curator, the Minister. On the other hand, the issue of the implementation of the programme, which will be in these branches, the issue of supervision - this burden was taken on by the Minister of National Defence. That is also the answer to the question of why MON, not others. In other words, certification, supervision of these branches and this is simply the response and implementation of a specific programme to achieve a specific objective. Of course, it is possible to consider theoretically, if there were other ideas, other programs, other concepts, one could consider how much more elements could be introduced into the educational system, while here we had a specific program, a specific idea. At the same time, it was worked out, precisely by the Minister of National Defence, a concept with objectives. To answer the question of why so, this answer is, and this is the result of the delegation that was introduced there, i.e. for the Minister of National Defence. On the other hand, the slogan for recruitment fell completely beyond this topic. With your permission, Mr. Marshal, I feel obliged to answer this unrelated subject. It is simply recruitment this year, as in everyone, for each host body must be based on certain demographic data. When planning appropriate reform activities, in 2017, local authorities decided on networks and the number of schools that should function as secondary schools, upper secondary schools, secondary schools, i.e. technology, high school and industry schools. At the same time, it had to be taken into account that high school would be four years old and the tech school would be five years old. Next, it was necessary to take into account the number of graduates, the number of graduates arriving in a given county from outside this county. Next, it was necessary to consider what type of school students choose in a given district. In other words, without such a detailed analysis, no decision can be made. Besides, most local authorities, it can be said that practically all, such effective actions were taken by such analyses. In addition, creating a high school network, e.g. in Warsaw, but also in other cities, it had to be taken into account that decisions regarding the obligation of six-year-olds caused that in primary school we have two more double yearbooks, which will also go to secondary schools, in other words, the network should be created. It is also worth noting how many in previous years, e.g. in Warsaw, the high schools were eliminated. By 2016, by 2015, as I recall, there were more than 20 high schools. We need to answer the question of what decisions have been made, who is made, and what the consequences have been. Looking at recruitment, it is worth noting the percentage of students who were not recruited in the first recruitment period. We would see that in Bydgoszcz last year it was 19.51% , this year - 13,65% , actually less. Like we looked in Katowice: last year - 4,12% , this year - 3,49% , in Łódź: last year - 7,88% , this year - 4.29% etc. In fact, last year's percentage was not recruited in the first recruitment of more students than this. And this year, there are just different numbers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because there are more students. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u402	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u403	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few sentences. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, when it comes to the issue of certification of military uniform classes, it gives an exam. As was rightly mentioned, at the moment there are 107 classes in the certification programme, from 1 September to 124. We've got over $3,000. Young people who learn are educated in uniform classes, military classes. Ladies and gentlemen! We are open to sharing our observations, our experiences with other resorts, both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Justice. We've been running this certification for 3 years, this program has been running for 3 years. This is the first time we've had seniors this year, or we have seniors, and young people have graduated. This cycle of training ends with a training camp, culminating in a military oath. Ladies and gentlemen! 4.5 million zlotys are funds that we spend as the Ministry of National Defence. Why are there no solutions in this message concerning other uniform classes, whether they are firefighters or policemen or prison services? Respected State! This is due, for example, to financial issues. Today, the Ministry of National Defense is crossing this trail. I am convinced that in the future, perhaps, the next service will create this type of school, this type of facility. One more very important thing. It is the Minister of National Defence who will issue the regulation. The regulation will also benefit from the experience of training young people in certified classes, i.e. this 3-year period, once. And two, this is also a kind of evaluation of the achievements and achievements that took place under the programme of certified uniform classes. As the Ministry of National Defence, we are determined to develop this system. Once again - bow to the initiators of this parliamentary presentation for the initiative and for these actions, because they undoubtedly contribute to the improvement of the security of the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u404	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Teresa Wargocka. The Member does not want to speak. Mrs Siarkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In replying, on behalf of the Members of the applicant, to the questions that have been asked about this amendment, I would first of all like to answer the basic question that has been raised several times during the discussion on this draft law. Why does this project only cover military classes? Well, High Izbo, as Members of the applicant, we absolutely do not close this possibility in any way. Perhaps in the future, all uniform classes will be certified and this will be introduced into the Education Law in a system manner, while at this stage the programme which was implemented by the Ministry of National Defence, the pilot programme provides us with such a level of knowledge that we can already formulate proposals and introduce a system solution for military uniform classes - precisely thanks to the pilot programme initiated by the Ministry of National Defence. Of course, this amendment is also linked to the need to rebuild the Armed Forces' personnel reserves, which this project will provide to some extent. Of course, this does not solve the problem comprehensively, but to some extent it will also ensure the supply of new personal reserves and thus we will be able to introduce a system, comprehensive solution, which will interrupt this experiment that has been going on for more than 20 years. I think that we are already at this stage, that we can introduce these comprehensive and systemic solutions. It is worth referring to the allegation that the project does not include... Mr Mroczek's allegation was that the project was made at a time when the conclusions of piloting were not formulated. Mr President, the pilot proposals are already so specific that they allow this amendment to be introduced, but already in September 2019. The Ministry of National Defence will have data that will allow a regulation to be drawn up for this law, and so the proposals are and allow for the formulation of the current amendment. [[Where are these conclusions? Where are they?]] It is also worth asking a question here, because you are very inconsistent. On the one hand, you are saying that the piloting proposals are not yet complete, so you should not introduce a system solution for military uniform classes, and on the other hand you are calling for this amendment to cover all uniform classes, and we do not have any conclusions from any pilot programmes that would be conducted in respect of uniform classes of another kind, for example. Fire class or police class. It's premature. Your amendments, either on behalf of myself or on behalf of Members of the applicants, are such premature and ill-considered. With regard to the question put forward by one of the Members concerning the practical training programme of a 16-year-old, I would like to say, Mr President, that this is of course a question of a regulation issued by the MON, but from the practice and information available to me, it is clear that today those who start teaching in these classes, in uniformed classes, are engaged in practical training from the second year, i.e. people between the 16th and 17th years of age. The training starts with really basic issues such as drill science, regulations, orientation in the field, familiarization with national symbols, military symbols, and such a program will certainly also be implemented here, in the first year when it will be practical training. At the same time, with regard to questions relating to the financing of these classes by local authorities, I would like to stress this once again clearly, because it may not sound very clear: the project does not introduce any new tasks for schools or local authorities. Until now, schools that have run such classes have provided funding for these classes on their own. If, in turn, the school does not apply for this, if it does not have such classes and does not apply for such a class, it will also bear no additional costs and, at the same time, thanks to this amendment, the schools and school heads will be able to receive funding for such classes from the Ministry of National Education by increasing the educational subsidy intended to pay for teaching to teachers who will conduct classes in these classes. On the other hand, the Ministry of National Defence will cover the costs related to practical training in military units and will allocate grants to the authorities running the school for the implementation of practical training in these classes. Therefore, there is no reason to fear that schools or local governments will be burdened with any additional task that would generate costs. Absolutely not. This amendment improves the situation in this respect. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask very warmly for the support of this bill, because young people are waiting for training in military classes to finally have a specific dimension to be structured. The point is that these young people can actually benefit from the science that is being conducted within military classes, be able to perform a shortened preparatory service, take a military oath, power the Armed Forces personnel reserves, or continue to study and become soldiers of the Polish Army, soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, or enter a military college. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u406	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u407	The explanatory memorandum states that the military class concept emerged in 2000, while the first military class was organised in 2001. Despite cooperation with schools, the Ministry has so far not had a greater impact on the way in which classes are conducted in uniform classes. This draft law is intended to significantly change this. However, I would like to ask whether the Ministry has an analysis carried out on how the adoption of the law could increase the interest of the relevant individuals to create this type of class in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u408	The draft deals with the introduction of provisions enabling the operation of military preparations troops to be legally determined, so-called. Military uniform classes. The concept of military classes appeared in 2000 and assumed to launch a pedagogical experiment which, after the testing phase, would end in the introduction of a system solution into the legal order. The first military class was organized in 2001 in Tuchola High School, acting according to the military program by colonel. dr. hab. Julius Tym. The conduct of military classes allowed the provisions of the non-binding regulation of the Minister for National Education and Sport of 9 April 2002 on the conditions for innovative and experimental activities by public schools and institutions (Journal of Laws No. U. poz. 506 and 2011 item 1051). In the absence of legal acts governing the establishment and operation of uniformed schools, they themselves lay down the main principles for the functioning of such classes in accordance with the provisions of the field of education law, resulting in a wide range of programming and organisational diversity. The experiment, which began in 2000, continues until today and participates in about 500 schools, which shows a positive perception of the concept of military classes in society. National Defence Resort has supported these innovations for years, but from a practical point of view, the solution is rather unfavourable if the State's defence performance criterion is taken into account. Despite intensive cooperation, the resort has no real impact on the way in which classes are conducted in uniform classes. In the light of existing law, the Ministry may offer a certain range of support (e.g. assistance in the implementation of classes, youth training programmes, teacher training), but must not set standards and enforce them. Experience shows that not all institutions carry out classes at a satisfactory level from the point of view of defence activities. Another problem is that there are too few hours at the disposal of teachers. Military education in the framework of innovation is mainly conducted during the hours available to the school head as an extension of the subject of education for safety, but this is not an extension within the meaning of the provisions of the Education Law because it does not involve a senior subject. We will be in favour of further work on the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u409	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws, print No 3690. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 04 hours 20 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Fire Protection Act (Prints No 3619 and 3642). I would like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Fire Protection Act, print no. 3619. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The Commission, having considered it at its meeting on 17 September 2019, requests the adoption of a draft resolution by the High Chamber. [[Voice from the room: July.]] July, I'm sorry. At this point, as rapporteur, I would like to point out that, in some ways, the bill is a groundbreaking project, because it gives the possibility to finance the statutory tasks of voluntary firefighters directly from the State budget by the Minister for the Interior. The total value of the support in 2019 foreseen for tasks included in the draft law is PLN 82 million. The Act sets out in detail how and for what tasks these funds can be used by voluntary firefighters. On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I request the adoption of a draft law. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u411	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my honor to present our position towards the government's draft law amending the Fire Protection Act, print no. 3619. It is worth to say first of all that voluntary firefighters are the oldest social organizations, organizations with exceptional achievements, organizations operating throughout Poland. The first units of voluntary firefighters were established on Polish lands more than 150 years ago in Krakow, Kalisz, Raciborz or Brodnica. They responded to new threats that destroyed large areas of rapidly expanding cities in the 19th century. After Poland regained its independence in 1918, voluntary firefighters were created as legal entities, which was supported by the politics of the Second Republic. In 1921 the unions operating under the partitions merged into a single structure called the Chief Fire Management Board of the Republic of Poland. The structure of the volunteer guards has been so shaped to this day. It is worth noting and reminding that during World War II the Fire Resistance movement was created. This environment has great merits for Poland's independence. Currently in Poland in the so-called. the TSO system is registered with 16 170 TSOs. Of course, this number is fluid, because there are more units in Poland than 16 400 operating units. The legal basis for the activities of TSOs is: the Law on Associations, the Fire Protection Act and the statutes of entities registered in the National Court Register. At the head of each unit, the TSO shall be the President elected every 4 years with the members of the Management Board and the Head responsible for the rescue operations in the unit concerned. At this point I would like to point out that over 800,000 currently operate in the CSR lines in Poland. persons, including around 500,000. active firefighters involved in rescue operations. According to the Fire Protection Act, these are 18- to 65-year-olds. Volunteer firefighters in Polish reality conduct a rich educational, cultural and sports activity. There's 10,000 at the TSO. youth fire teams, 1630 female fire teams, 800 brass orchestras, 360 artistic teams, 3,200 sports teams, 1,400 memory rooms. 6,000. individuals carry out rich chronicles of their activities. Thousands of rescue operations carried out every few minutes throughout Poland are a basic form of CSR activity. For fires, firefighters leave for local events on average 520 thousand. times a year. This was the case in 2019 and these are both events and rescue actions. All these events are 50% attended by volunteer firefighters and 50% by volunteer firefighters. together with colleagues, officers from the State Fire Department. At this point I would like to point out that in 2019 voluntary firefighters operating under the national rescue system, and they are in this 4400 system, received funds of PLN 80 million and units outside the system - PLN 44 million. For the first time in the history of the units received support from the modernisation programme of PLN 501 million for the purchase of rescue equipment. This is due to the Government of Law and Justice. In 2018, the units received support from the Justice Fund amounting to PLN 102 million. Of course, they also receive support from the national environmental fund and from the voivodship environmental funds. In the bill submitted today in the Sejm, this year the CSR units will receive support of PLN 82 million in the open selection of applications for statutory activities. After the adoption of the Act and its publication, the units will be able to submit applications within a specified period, through the Provincial Commandant, to the Minister for the Interior. The appropriations obtained must be cleared by the end of the financial year. The proposal, the contract will specify time limits and rules [[♪ The bell ♪]] expenditure of these funds. Measures under the provisions proposed in the Act may be obtained for sports, cultural, educational activities...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u413	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u414	...and to promote first aid rules. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club supports the proposed project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u415	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u416	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I am pleased to present to the High House the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition in relation to the bill amending the Fire Protection Act. None of us have any objections to this project. We have no objections to the transfer of money to voluntary firefighters and we support this project, but we cannot go on the agenda without expressing the doubts that have arisen around it. The project is part of a whole cycle of projects, such as: 13th pension or project on changes in the functioning of the housewives' circles, and these are action-reaction projects, invented for the moment, inserted without consultation for a specific purpose. And that's the goal, as we're guessing, of the upcoming elections. It's a project that's not covered in any framework, unattended in its entire system, which would serve real changes or better functioning of voluntary firefighters. And the words in the explanatory statement that the importance of the activities described in this project demands the regulation of the statutory rank to be normalized, it is as if to erase or forget the fact that for years bridesmaids and bridesmaids, without any precepts and prohibitions, always ready, enthusiastic and committed, often themselves supporting such activities together with local governments, NGOs or local communities, have simply carried out such tasks. We would really have no doubt if this project, as well as the rural housewives' circles, and mentioned by me, had brought with them system solutions, many years and a real sense of security and genuine care. Unfortunately, it is only a plan for this moment, now and immediately, which is for the election campaign before the parliamentary elections. Of course, we will vote in favour of this project because we know that voluntary firefighters will make excellent use of these additional and one-off measures. However, we are most saddened by this situation: the face of money directed to the circles of rural hostesses was Minister Możjanowska, who based her electoral message on them, as we know with positive results, and the face of money for voluntary firemen will be Minister Jarosław Zieliński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u417	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u418	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I see you're three of you here, and I can only say a little half joke, half serious, that I feel a little sorry for Minister Zieliński, because if you have to fight the trade unions, he's alone, and now you're in a bigger group. I understand that, Minister. By moving on to the project, of course, the role of volunteer firefighters in civil protection is huge, so I'm sure it will be useful for voluntary firefighters to have the money you predicted for them this year. Indeed, this project introduces a legal framework and new tasks, and you also promise that there will be a reserve from which money will be paid this year. Hence our doubt, because, as my colleague said, it looks like a purely pre-election action, because there is no guarantee that this project will continue next year. If you had permanently recorded such support in the Act, it would have been a much more honest situation, but today it is not. This is just a reserve, and the design of the regulations is that this money will be moved as part of the measures that the resort has. Well, you plan to spend PLN 82 million on this bill, I will remind you that when you had to spend about PLN 100 million on the sudden purchase of helicopters, you had to move money, among others. in communications and in the personal protection of officers, therefore these are important tasks for which money should also be available. That is why we expect the Minister to provide us with information on where he will receive PLN 82 million from, what tasks he will perform. they will be moved this year. Like I said, this bill... We, of course, will support it as a parliamentary club, because the fire department will need all the money to carry out their tasks. On the other hand, we believe that the law does not solve the serious problems faced by voluntary firefighters in the long term. It is primarily about recruitment issues, but also problems related to dismissals by employers of volunteer firefighters, who go on stock and on duty. These are serious problems that the High House should address. I'll repeat my declaration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Friends: we will vote in favour of the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u419	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We're looking at a bill to amend the Fire Protection Act. This project is very good because it grants the possibility to use the State budget for voluntary firefighters in terms of their statutory duties. Now they can spend this money not only, as has been the case so far, on fire-fighting activities or such basic activities, but also on all other elements. In fact, it's a project where you say we took something from you, and now we're gonna give it to you. The voluntary fire department had previously fulfilled exactly the same obligations and had insurance funds and other elements taken from them. Because we remember the moment that the volunteer firefighters were taken away... [[That's not true.]] [[That's not true.]] Right. [[Even bigger ones are passed on.]] These measures have been taken and are now granted. Let's see how big the resources are going to be. For now, we know that they are granted once. It's kind of a socialist kind of thing. The Minister said yesterday, when I could no longer refer to it, that I am a certain communist singer and I would like to install a communist system here. Minister, today you didn't have the courage to come to the committee meeting even though you promised us that you would be at this meeting and we would discuss in it what instalments and in which settlement system the overtime accounts for uniformed services are to be prepared. You weren't here today. The principal must have spoken for you. Okay, I may be a communist, but at least I'm not using the police to promote myself. This law, on the other hand, is exactly the law in which we first take and then give. Of course, we will support it, because every money for voluntary guards is important, but there is another problem. Who's gonna admit that money? We have a centralized system here, too. They'll be granted first by the Chief Chief. In general, this money will be awarded by the chiefs of voivodships, not e.g. local government units which could separate them as indicated and according to the needs of voluntary firefighters. Why is that? Because you need to control that money, too. They're supposed to be given to those who should have them. Minister, really, less accusations about the implementation of communism in Poland, and more reason and more pluralism, which we reportedly talked about yesterday and which is needed not in uniform services, but here, in the case of the distribution of this money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u421	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u422	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I present my position towards the government's draft law on the amendment of the Fire Protection Act. After four years of coalition governments, we are truly pleased that the PiS government has finally remembered the voluntary firefighters and their educational, cultural, educational, preventive and sporting activities. Unfortunately, due to the introduction by the PiS Government of changes in the financing of TSOs for 2 years, the guards had to cope on their own, without help from the state budget. By taking away the influence of volunteers on the allocation of funds from insurance companies, there was no support for precisely those objectives which today we loudly introduce into the law, even though they have been well implemented by the TSOs for 150 years. When on 17 April 2017 I took the floor from this podium, assessing the amendment of the law in your execution, I said, quote: Volunteer firefighters in many local environments play a very important preventive role, organizing social life... [[Yeah, right.]] He's working with the schools, and you're trying to destroy all of this. You're taking the possibility of youth fire teams, hitting culture, reducing resources to maintain fire-fighting wind orchestras, so how are we supposed to raise and train the next generation of volunteer firefighters? I'm glad you finally realized your mistake after two years, and today, when you introduce this bill, you're right, although you're probably never going to say it out loud. In the context of the discussion on the proposed amendments, I would like to remind you that the allocation of the MSWiA grant to TSOs from the national emergency and emergency systems and from outside its register is inefficient and irrational in your issue. I'm sure he's extremely politicized, and I have a lot of irrefutable evidence that I'm not going to present today because of the lack of time. We regret the fact that the Chief Commander of the State Fire Service is transferring funds from insurance companies to TSOs to a much smaller extent. This is an excellent presentation of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I'm getting a lot of signals from the TSOs in the national rescue and fire system, which receive annual support from a grant of 1,5 000. zł, and on the other hand there are some individuals, probably close to the hearts of your politicians, who receive grants of nearly 800,000. [[No, you can't.]] Where's the justice? It's neither fair nor fair. From 1 January 2016, the VAT rate increased from 8% to 23%, resulting from EU legislation. For this reason, the revenue to the state budget increased from PLN 65 million in 2015 to PLN 230 million in 2017. Since 2016, since PiS has taken over power, the State has taken more from voluntary firefighters and municipalities in the form of VAT than in the form of subsidies from the state budget. It's just bullshit. The increase in subsidies to TSOs, to which Minister Zieliński boasts everywhere, is much less than the additional revenue of the budget from the increased VAT. Back to the changes made and proposed by the government in the proposed method of distribution of funds, I would like to ask you about the costs of handling this task by the Voivodship Commands of PSP. Are you planning to set up cultural and educational departments in the voivodship headquarters and the State Firefighter's Headquarters in connection with the changes that will determine which CSR can take place, which CSR can organise the jubilee or which Firefighter will be able to buy new instruments? Will I operate the posts of political officers deciding on the division? Perhaps for some of the current PSP management it would be a return to youth. At the same time, on behalf of the club, I propose an amendment aimed at effective spending of funds. Speaking of the support of volunteer fire workers, I regret the fact that for more than two years now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from 8 June 2017 - one minute, Mr. Marshal - no work has been done on implementing the amendments to the pension allowance for volunteer firefighters... [[That's right, it's a volunteer guard.]] ...including those tabled by the Legislative Initiative Committee, just because it is not a project by the PiS. [[Eight years.]] It is sad that the government and the leadership of the Sejm have no respect for the signatures of over 220 thousand citizens, firefighters and friends of the guards from various regions of the country, with different political views calling for help for senior firefighters. I hereby request that urgent work be undertaken in committees on the submitted projects before the end of the current term of office of the Sejm. High Seym! Considering that today's law partially corrects your mistake from 2 years ago, and that it meets the expectations of voluntary firefighters, the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland supports the proposed amendments to the Fire Protection Act. Any support given to voluntary firefighters allows young people to be encouraged to join the ranks of guards and to carry out their missions in harmony with the message: God for glory, for the benefit of men. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u423	Thank you very much. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'm making the amendment I was talking about. Excuse me, Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Piotr Pyzik has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! With a certain amount of anxiety, I stand by this podium after what I just heard, but it's okay. I guess I'm dealing with other volunteer firefighters. I would like to ask you about the following: Would it not be advisable to set the maximum total amount of the contribution to the voluntary fire department for non-operational activities in the total amount of the grant? What is it? The aim is to prevent certain TSOs from losing their ability to achieve the essential objective of active fire protection over time. I understand that this may be a space full of abstraction, but the point is to separate it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u425	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have three short questions. First, who will develop criteria for the distribution of these resources to the TSOs in general, so that it is fair and transparent? Two. I wanted to ask you what's gonna happen next year. Will what is being adopted this year, this specific amount for TSOs, also be included in the budget next year? And the third line. I was asked if the government was thinking about compensation, or is it better to say: incentives for CSR firefighters in the form of an allowance for retirement, as they constantly remind us when we are in the field? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u427	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I asked questions during the committee meeting, but the minister couldn't answer them, which is why I'm asking the minister. The impact assessment states that, due to the nature of the proposed law, no public consultation was carried out. I would like to ask you and ask you to explain what these words mean, that the particular nature of the proposed law has affected the lack of consultation. My second question also concerns the words in this impact assessment of the regulation that the rapid entry into force of the project is dictated by the need for the immediate transfer of funds to the activities of the TSOs. I would like to know, and I ask for information, what an extraordinary event, that these funds must be transferred immediately to this activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's not that beautiful, it's still smart.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u429	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you two questions. One question has been asked by the Member before me. The Act is to enter into force the day following publication. On the one hand, is there really a need for such a haste? On the other hand, are you simply prepared for this, also logistically? And the second question refers to Mr Sosnowski's question, who mentioned wind orchestras. There are a lot of them in Poland, but I do not know if the Minister is aware that the last conductor of wind orchestras left school in 2005. You haven't trained conductors since. Does the Ministry also think about this aspect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u431	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Are the amendments proposed in the wording of the Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a will the Act require an extension of the sources of funding for voluntary firefighters? If so, how much money are we talking about, and what are the sources? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u433	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Honestly, there's a little bit of a lack of detail in the bill, because you're actually putting new volunteer firefighters' duties in the bill. On the other hand, we still lack the details of how the money you are planning to spend this year will be spent. The impact assessment indicated that the maximum grant would be 5 000. zł. And judging by the financial impact, you're multiplying 5,000. times the number of volunteer firefighters. Whether it's like you're guaranteeing money for every request or there's gonna be some kind of verification. Those conclusions? Or any voluntary fire department that makes an application of up to 5,000. - of course there is an appropriate procedure - he has a guarantee that he will receive this money if he meets the statutory criteria, or if he will verify these requests, because there will be some money pool, e.g. Is it possible that some TSOs will not get it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand that if the statutory criteria are met, the money of the TSO belongs. I'm asking the Minister for information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u435	Mr Richard Bartosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Chief! High Izbo! I would like to thank volunteers on behalf of the firefighters for another good bill for the Fire Department. The resources allocated by the Government of Law and Justice to voluntary firefighters are many times higher and record-breaking. This amount of money has never been spent on voluntary firefighters. Thank you for this bill, because it is a very important law for voluntary firefighters, but also for rural communities, because it will have an excellent impact on the development of these environments, on cultural, educational and preventive activities. I wanted to know where these applications would be made by voluntary firefighters, whether they were made by the county chief or by the voivodeship, and how would these proposals look like? Thank you again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For this bill, on behalf of the voluntary fire department, I am asking such a question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Never for many thanks when it comes to the operation of TSOs, because indeed the way they care about our safety deserves the utmost respect and it is not subject to any discussion. And that's because you're saying there'll be 83 million. In that case, can you guarantee that each Volunteer Fire Department that applies will receive funding? Question, Minister: Why not just now? We see that it is an electoral calendar, but also a question of this kind comes up and it is obvious. Is that going to be a long-term plan? In that case, can you guarantee that these measures will already be available for this type of action? And the question is, because the catalogue is obviously described here, but shouldn't we give more freedom, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to TSOs, how can they spend this money? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u439	Thank you. Mr Paweł Papke.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u440	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, doubts, because they must be at this point, that is, art. 1 point 1 point 3 and the famous organisation of promotional projects. At a meeting a few days ago in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, which I am pleased to represent, in the Szczecin district, one of the CEOs of CSR, hearing about this idea, was very surprised. He pointed out that instead of spending as much money as he called it, I quote, on propaganda, he could use this money for e.g. fitting the unit or accessories for firefighters, so urgent and so necessary additions. So my question is, can we really not use this money instead of propaganda for real and urgent problems of volunteer firefighters? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u441	Thank you. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u442	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! 82 million is good money. Someone who knows the work of the TSOs knows that you would actually have to spend a lot of money if the forces of the State Fire Department wanted to fulfil the tasks that the TSOs carry out. These are very brave and very dedicated people. It's a shame it's only happening now, but it's a good thing it's happening at all. On the other hand, it raises doubts about what money it will be, for whom it will be granted according to what criteria. The bill doesn't specify anything. In general, this is to be considered by the district commander. It is not known what criteria he is to take into account as to how these measures will then be settled. In addition, if the district commander does not give a positive opinion, what is the appeal? If you give public money and admit it by some decision, it must be some form of appeal, a possibility to say: I disagree with the opinion of the district commander, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want that money on the TSO. Explain these doubts. This is money very much needed for statutory activities, but there must be transparency of action and distribution of public money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u443	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Rusecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u444	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Mr. Chief! Thank you very much for this bill on behalf of all the voluntary firefighters. Thank you for honoring and writing these tasks that voluntary firefighters have been doing for years. This is strengthening these activities in the field. I'm very surprised to hear from my colleagues on the left-hand side of the room who just didn't do it before. My question is: What amounts did the Law and Justice Government spend on voluntary firefighters this year compared to other years? How big are the resources? It is well known that all means are needed to ensure that the fire department can act effectively, for which we thank them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u445	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The role of voluntary firefighters in ensuring the security of the local population and the development of the local community cannot be overestimated. The bill we're now investigating is good, necessary, but the question is whether it's too late. A few weeks ago, I had a meeting with firefighters from the Deszkowice First Fire Department. I'm gonna say colloquially, "poor there is squealing." Ladies and gentlemen, aren't we trying to transfer this money too late and shouldn't the elections be every two years? Then maybe there wouldn't be any problems as they are in volunteer firefighters at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u447	Mr Piotr Polak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u448	Dear Marshal, Ministers! Mr. Chief! High Izbo! Every idea and initiative that we support here in the High House regarding voluntary firefighters deserves respect and recognition. That's the law, that's how it's perceived in the field. My fellow volunteers, as soon as the subject was made public... They are very pleased with this bill and are waiting for it. But because they appeared in discussions, in club speeches for me irrational statements, I would like to establish that the provisions of the law that we are discussing today are systemic, and not, as some of us point out, occasional. For me these are system records and they will stay for many, many years. Since it was also mentioned that, in the sense that, for the last three years, some money had been stolen, taken from voluntary firefighters, I wanted to ask the Minister, because in the internal affairs committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have been working for 12 years now, as long as spending from the state budget for voluntary firefighters has increased in the last 3 years compared to 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u449	Please, Mrs Margaret Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of voluntary firefighters are wonderful people who care for our safety not only when there is a fire, but also when there are storms, such as the ones that visited Pomerania, or in various other extreme cases. These are really exceptional people, and indeed the voluntary fire department is underfunded. I wanted to ask you what are the sources of funding for the TSOs and how you want to spend the money booked, the 83 million. You're gonna have to apply, firefighters are gonna apply. How will they be verified? What's it gonna depend on? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u451	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u452	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I address you, not as a Member, but as a fireman. Well, two years ago, changing... Firefighters - let's start with this - and the Association of Volunteer Firefighters of the Republic of Poland have written a beautiful card in the history of Polish firefighters. Two years ago, when the law was amended and insurance was taken away, the union and voluntary firefighters were deprived of the possibility of carrying out the tasks that were included in the bill today. This means that these insurance funds used to be used for this purpose - today this is changing when it comes to insurance funds - for this reason the purchase of CSR uniforms and decorations, which are so important for ordinary firefighters, was also financed. Today there's no money for it, not even this bill doesn't restore money. So let me ask you two basic questions. Will any valid application be considered positive or necessary [[♪ The bell ♪]] political coloring? Second question. We have over 16,000 in the country. TSOs. If each of them makes a motion, we'll have to sign 16,000. Deals or not? Because once, Minister, you didn't have to sign those contracts. [[Oh, my gosh!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u453	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of the Interior and Administration, Mrs Elizabeth Witek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll just say it in general first, ladies and gentlemen. For 15 years with volunteer firefighters - it is to a fellow Member who has recently appeared - I have been working together on a daily basis as a Member. I wasn't a minister back then. I must tell you that I respect you very much, I have always respected my fellow volunteers, and never, when they came to my office, and it comes very often - I think that they also came to your offices and still come - I never asked who they voted for, I never asked what political color they had, for one reason. [[Bravo.]] Because I knew, and I also know today, that it is a huge crowd of people, over 700,000. people who are the first to be on the scene, not only road accidents, but also other events that we have seen very often in recent times, such as all kinds of cataclysms, weather-related disasters. We know that very well. I never ask about political coloring, but please note that so far volunteer firefighters actually only have in their own statues what they can do, and the task of each municipality is fire protection. It's a community duty. Show me the municipality, which is exemplary, so that it really doesn't lack anything, gives money for voluntary firefighters. There are no communes like this. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, some municipalities are poorer, others are richer. Some are interested in voluntary firefighters and appreciate the importance of their functioning in the communes, because if the governor or mayor appreciates the voluntary firefighter, he knows that he can sleep at night, because if something happens, she will be the first to go to the event. But unfortunately there are also such self-government officials, and I know them personally, who completely do not understand the importance in the state's internal security system of voluntary firefighters. I'd like to reassure you all. I'm not interested in the political coloring of firefighters' volunteers. I do not ask them about it, I know that we may have different views, but if Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska, whom I do not see here, asks whose face this bill has - I do not know why my colleague, who has a fire department and in general a uniform service in his heart, may you think differently, but he is an extremely hardworking man, responsible, and besides he is the author of a modernization program, from which also voluntary fire guards draw - I say that I do not want her to have my face, I want her to have the face of the Polish Parliament. I want us to adopt this law unanimously, because it is intended to strengthen the internal security of the state. You're asking why it's so late, why now. Not so late. If, ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to consider this bill as something that is related to the election campaign, which you are suggesting is that we are using it for an election campaign, ladies and gentlemen, then we would not support the voluntary fire department for four years, and they gained 30% in 2015 and 2018. more funding from the state budget. For 4 years, more than 500 million, 501 million have been received from the modernisation programme. Over 100 million last year from the Justice Fund. We didn't have any choices at the time. Actually, you can say that we have the election all the time, because we're about to be president, and you're gonna say that we're gonna... No, I'm asking for a little trust and a little credibility check. We said, when I was a spokesperson at the time, that our government had a few basic pillars. One of them is the security of the state and its citizens. In this pillar of security, we see and have seen voluntary firefighters from the beginning, and we support them all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, if you're going to a celebration, if you're going to a firefighter's volunteer, tell me who doesn't see a change. Because I'm a little surprised when I hear voices that someone from the volunteer fire department said - I wrote it down somewhere, but now I'm not going to look anymore, because I'm running out of time, and I'm sorry -- that instead of propaganda, they'd rather spend that money on something else. Ladies and gentlemen, for several years I have personally supported the guards' volunteers without asking where they are, what they think and who they vote for. They were e.g. gala uniforms, because I knew they were standing by your grave and saying, "Mrs. Member, we don't have what we look like. I saw it, but I financed it myself, meaning nothing, even then I was a member of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, and I appreciated the role of firefighters. I know what the State Fire Department says, that without volunteers she couldn't function, and we all know that. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we know that if public funds are issued, they must also be settled. To close this thread, please don't wear it. or political, party, because it really doesn't matter. There's no coloring in safety. A sense of security is something that accompanies us, ladies and gentlemen, from the first days to the last days of our lives, so let us respect those who give us this security. Let us also bear in mind that voluntary firefighters, who actually have these basic rescue and fire-fighting activities recorded in the 1991 Act, do not have directly written down in this Act, which they are allowed to do, which they are not allowed to do. And, for example, Many mayors or mayors would be more likely to support voluntary firefighters, but they say, "We don't know if we can." We don't know what it's for. We don't know that. It's not quite clear. I'm very glad that there were questions about system operation here. Well, I'd rather work than talk too much, but I've said it several times in different places, at briefings with firemen or at meetings with them in the government. Well, we are preparing, ladies and gentlemen, a large bill, precisely because we appreciate the importance of voluntary firefighters and would like to provide more care for voluntary firefighters, but also to require more. What does that mean? We want to finance it because today only a part of the units are in KSRG. Ladies and gentlemen, today - it is worth reading the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber - many volunteers do not have medical examinations, municipalities do not pay for insurance, some do not have the right to drive vehicles they are trying for. They all want vehicles. If you go to the volunteer fire department, you'll see that these are luxury cars today. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] We've really spent this year... There will be over 480 combat vehicles, light, medium and heavy. And that's not gonna get the State Fire Department, that's gonna get volunteers. They, I think, usually come to you for this: Help us get the car. What happened? Why are we presenting this project now? Because this term is over, we'd like to make it. But why? We have an example from this year, it happened. For the first time in years. Well, for many years now, as you probably know, to buy combat cars - they cost 400,000. to more than PLN 1 million, no local government, especially the local government, would not be able to bear it - we organized famous financial editings. The council passed a resolution, declared that it was worth 200,000, 300, 100 and sometimes 500. But the car costs over a million. Where do you get the rest of the money? Well, we were editing. And it's again, ladies and gentlemen, state money, budget money, whatever we call it. It was money from the modernization fund, it was money from the national environmental fund, it was money that was just from the Justice Fund, it was also money from the national fund, from the voivodship, and it was also money from marshal offices. Mr. President, do you know what happened this year? We're gonna do it the way they did it every year. I don't know how many local governments, because I don't even want to check anymore, but the Mazovian government that I come from, I'm talking about the regional government, for the first time... There were 40,000. for volunteers firefighters who submitted applications and received this financial assembly. They've been pulled out of it. They've been pulled out of it. And we stayed in such a situation, for example. We ran out of 650,000 in Lower Silesia. We gave the promenades, and suddenly we're $650,000 short. We said we'd do everything we could to find the money. We found this money and these 15 extra combat vehicles will be purchased for Lower Silesia. But this isn't the only government. If you're talking about the fact that this money is something we want to share wrong, that it raises suspicions, then I wanted to tell you that the government can really donate to voluntary firefighters. However, it has not yet been possible to do this from the state budget. And we see that without state aid, this cannot be done. Because they're not just fire trucks. These are clothes, this is even equipment in the form of nets on a hornet, these are ladders, these are defibrillators, also external ones that appear more and more often. Cars are breaking down, it's also a matter of repair. That's what we need resources for. If you don't help, the local authorities can't do it themselves, because we've had an example for many, many years. Today, volunteers see this change, they see it, and I hope that the change introduced by this project will be maintained. You're asking if we're only going to finance this year. No, we're talking about this year because we're talking about this year's budget. The budget will be allocated every year. Or is it the same? I don't know, because, ladies and gentlemen, if these volunteer firefighters get combat cars by any time now, they're gonna have defibrillators, they're gonna have gala clothes, and so on, maybe they're gonna need less. You also asked if it would be 5,000. And be there for every volunteer firefighter. Why do we make such a provision that the opinion of the district commander, the voivodship commander is needed here, and this will be available to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration? Because this bill comes from us, the money is from us, the money is budget, so we want to have control over it, as one of the Members has noticed, control. Ladies and gentlemen, we've calculated how much that would be on average per unit. But I'm sure it'll be like this... Because the firefighters are already coming, and they say, "Mr. Minister, the pump for demolishing during these, well, not floods, but the submersible has been destroyed, it costs 13 grand, do we get only 5? No. Do you know what I'm doing? I also ask you, as Members of Parliament, also Members of the opposition, because probably these volunteers will come to you too. I always get in touch with the regional chief, and I ask, Chief, are those who come to me and ask me about the cars... I don't know all the volunteer firefighters, but the district commander, the provincial commander does. I'm asking if they're in KSRG, how many trips do they have, whether they belong to this car in the sense that they have a driver who has the authority to drive this car, whether they're near the highway, the expressway. It's all important to me. 'Cause I do, ladies and gentlemen, very few, but I do know cases that the mayor for various reasons... I wouldn't like to call them what you first called them, directing them to our address, but I do know a gentleman who bought a car to make someone angry, I don't know, I'm gonna freeze my mom's ears off, and today I can drive you there - you'll see, a beautiful car is standing, in a guard, in a garage, shiny, but it doesn't work for departures, because nobody drives there. [[I know this case, too.]] Next to it, in the same municipality, there's a volunteer fire department, near the A4 motorway of death. They come and ask for a car all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very much not to think... It is also the case that every political party, because we represent political environments here, going to power, wanting to take over it, wants to pursue its own agenda. ♪ We're safe ♪ ♪ We're safe ♪ We had it on our show, and that's why we're doing it. I don't want to talk about the fact that for eight years, it's still raining here, no. Ladies and gentlemen, if you've seen these problems before and you wanted to solve them, you've had a chance. I'll be happy... [[They weren't there.]] ...if you... [[Voice from the room: How was it not?]] ...you'll join us. Mr Wójcik, because this is a very important question, I started to talk about it, and then I made a digression. I'm running out of time. I don't want your marshal interrupting me. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Good morning, Marshal. But I wanted to reassure you. Appreciating the importance of volunteer firefighters and seeing that without state aid they would not function well, I've already set up a complex team... It's going to be a band in Lower Silesia, I don't know if you know that firefighters' laws were written in Lower Silesia, I'm from Lower Silesia. This band, when they found out... There are still some of the people who worked in this team, these are the professors, these are the employees of the Medical University, the University of Wrocław, there will be volunteer firefighters, [[♪ The bell ♪]] there will also be firefighters from the State Fire Department. We're preparing a big bill in which we'd like to appreciate the volunteers of the firefighters, you're talking about pensions. We will have different proposals, and today I do not want to talk about them, because they are at the stage of agreement in this team, proposals resulting from many years of experience and practice. If we're ready... I think that this law with justification will be ready, I think, already in September. We can present them to you and then we can work. If you have any ideas, ideas, we'll be happy to consider them in the discussion. That's it. Excuse me, Marshal, for exceeding my time. [[Applause]] If I didn't have time to answer all my questions, and I probably didn't have time, because there wasn't enough time, then I'm happy to serve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u455	Thank you very much. As corrected by Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz,15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u456	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, Minister, I thought maybe my question wasn't left. Understood, because I asked specifically about the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a whether amendments to this law will require an extension of funding sources. How much are we talking about, what are the sources? I completely agree, first of all, that the bill is good. And I agree with what the Minister just said here. On the other hand, the last time I met with the firemen was Sunday. I will also refer to Mr Józwiak's statement on behalf of our club, who proposed that this money should go to local governments. Why? Because it seems to me that the Ministry may not be able to see the individual units, because there are a lot of them. The minister was just saying that everyone wants a car or a lot of these units wants a car, and I was at an event on Sunday and the firemen come up, and I say, what, probably a car, and they say, no, we're too small for a car, even we don't count on it, we need the basic equipment, the minimum it can be. If it were going through local governments, it's possible that... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u457	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u458	...it would look better, and when everything's central, maybe the money...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u459	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u460	...they don't go to the most needy ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u461	Please, still in the manner of correcting Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. And then the Minister and the rapporteur will respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u462	I don't think the Minister understood what I was asking... [[Yeah, like always.]] ... Because, as you have pointed out in your statement, there are different guards and they have different tasks, their size varies, indeed the diversity is large. That is why we want so much to know, when this money is granted to firefighters for statutory activities, who has the opportunity to do so, what actions will be granted, not only in the general way mentioned in this Act, what criteria will be for granting them, so that this area of uncertainty is as narrow as possible, so that even the district guard chief, in his opinion, will know what criteria to use. After all, you know that there are guards that are leaving, and there are those who are in the national system, and there are those who never leave, and this bill doesn't say anything about it - everyone gets 82 million. It's unclear and illegible. Indeed in this table [[♪ The bell ♪]] For this year there are 82 million, and for the next 9 years there are zeros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u463	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Elizabeth Witek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u464	I think, Mr President, I would like to say to the rapporteur that we have understood each other well, but here he is sure... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 says that the voluntary fire department is uniformed and equipped with the necessary equipment. That's all, but then there's a list of tasks. We, by introducing this law, are introducing an additional element of funding. I wanted to reassure you all: we respect tradition, these are still associations, they act as they did, we do not interfere in the form of their activities. They can be financed by the local government in the form of grants, they can be financed by the state budget, that is, this change, because so far it was not possible, but also voluntary firefighters can be financed from other funds, from foundations, after all, today they receive, write applications like associations, return, receive, have. That's enough to explain. We understand each other perfectly. One more thing. If you're saying he's better off sharing the government because he knows, then I'll tell you that the real county chief knows better because he's a professional. A self-government man, if you'll excuse me, has really less knowledge of fire protection than a firefighter from the State Fire Department. [[He's answering.]] It's like the baker wants to advise, I don't know, a doctor. [[Of course.]] I'm sorry, but I think that's why we have district commanders, that's why we have voivodeships, we trust them, they've gone through their careers, they know these volunteer firefighters, and really, believe me, no voivodeship commander is acting against volunteer firefighters, because he knows perfectly well that this is the first... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...the team that's coming before they get there. On the other hand, to the Member, because you asked... [[Self-governments from PSL.]] ...about self-government. Once again, Member. [[Minister, I asked...]] Okay, I'll tell you what. There is no appeal, Madam President, because it is not an administrative decision, it is a grant. I wanted to say right away that this bill is immediately accompanied by a very simple, very simple application. I asked all voivodship commanders and district commanders because I had a briefing, I addressed them with an appeal and asked them to make sure that as soon as the bill was announced, I hope that we would adopt it unanimously, because it is really for everyone, it guarantees a sense of security, it will also be on the MSWiA pages and the main command... [[Criteria.]] And what are your criteria for granting a car right now? I'll tell you what it is. If they want a car, I need to know that they're in KSRG, that they have a driver's license, that they have a place to keep this car and that the municipality will help them when they need a review... [[Trained firefighters...]] Yeah, it's about untrained drivers. That's the obvious criterion. Madam President, it will be best if the criteria are defined by those who know about it, namely firefighters. Nobody takes firefighters from volunteers to throw parties. I know they're training first aid. Let them organize a festival, put their tent there, encourage people to join the voluntary fire department, show us how to give first aid, because we really need it. What are they doing besides that? They have a brass band that also represents a certain dignity, the status of this volunteer firefighter. It is all about what is right now, and it is all plus what we have written in this law: they may have uniforms, because volunteers ask about it, and equipment. I agree, Mr President, that the Member here said that they do not need cars, but that they need nets for hornets. Of course you're right, they need pumps too. And what else do I hear from volunteer firefighters and locals? We also think about this together with the volunteers. I don't do this without volunteers, Member, really. Fifteen years of volunteer firefighters crawling in here, and I'm crawling with them. I understand them. I see them every day, just like you. This is a service that is probably best rated, because it is still everywhere next to us and serves us. But they say this: Mrs, we do not need a new car, because the communes cannot afford it, because we do not have the need, we do not even have such a garage, because the dimensions of this car are so... I saw one firehouse, they wanted a car, but they say we have to blow up this house or build something, because the car won't fit. They don't even want new cars, they say this: give us used cars, but efficient and not very old - so I would say. Today is 12 years. The National Fire Department may transfer cars to TSOs that are over 12 years old. But I intend to work with my colleague, Minister Zieliński, who works with me here, reduce the number of these years, I don't know how many, maybe seven. And then, ladies and gentlemen, they receive from the state guard... I prefer that the cars whose purchases were financed from the budget go to the State Fire Department, and those which are 7 and 8 years old are after renovation, are after reviews, are handed over to voluntary firefighters. Then the municipality doesn't have to spend money and doesn't have to do this financial assembly. [[Applause]] They don't have to be new cars, they have to be operational. We have mountain areas, we have forests, we have lakes, we have a water environment, so volunteer firefighters are starting to specialize. I don't know if you know that. That's a great idea. Those who have water bodies are starting to specialize in finding people who can drown have fins. Others specialize in traffic accidents, quickly reaching the site. We even have, ladies and gentlemen, search and rescue units that have their own ambulances, because I don't know if you know... You know, I'm sorry to keep asking if you know, I'm sure you know we have over 220 grand. professionally trained paramedics. They can drive those ambulances. This is, of course, the song of the future, but that's what we're thinking about, thinking about this big bill that we want to make. We're not gonna be able to give it to her in this term of office. On the other hand, the assumptions are there, this team is already working, and we want to adopt more people to this team, so that this is worked out primarily by those who know about it, including inspectors who supervise security in different institutions. And that is why I ask you once again: do not think that this is a political action, do not think that this is an election sausage - Mr President, you are nodding your head - because if that were the case...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u465	But the Minister... Minister for the Interior and Administration of Elżbieta Witek: I still have time, Marshal. I know, we're only two hours behind, and that's as a correction. I'm sorry. Minister for the Interior and Administration of Elżbieta Witek: Yeah, I'm almost done. If that were the case, Mr President - I am sorry, one last sentence - we would really only do it now, and we have been doing it all the time, for four years. Please note that and consider this. This isn't a one-time bill that's only addressed to voluntary firefighters. If that were the case, we wouldn't have supported them for the last four years. Thank you. And I'm sorry. [[Applause]] Thank you and I'm sorry, Minister, but we have... The Minister could speak further, I was only encouraging it, because we are very late and there are still a lot of points to discuss. Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the committee. I have a request that we try to catch up a little bit with this delay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u466	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Minister explained a number of practical issues. I am speaking here as rapporteur and, at the same time, as President of Małopolska firefighters. The bill is very much needed. Thank you for showing up in this form. What is a plus in this bill, and what some people are trying to show as a minus, is that it's open. We are opening up to firefighters, to my colleagues - I would like to stress this very clearly - a range of possibilities for individual ideas about what the proposed legal solutions can actually use for. Of course, I am talking about statutory actions, because as far as equipment is concerned, it is clearly defined what we can finance and what we cannot finance from the state budget. On the other hand, it is very important for statutory actions today - I say this directly to firefighters' friends - that at the stage of the law we do not decide what the possibility is, what is the upper or lower limit of funding. Because for a small unit, $2,000. PLN is often a large amount of funding, and a large unit, which has a wide range of activities, needs a larger amount. And we give such freedom. This is the district commander who knows these units, who will be able to give an opinion that actually this unit, which is larger, we can give a higher amount and a smaller unit a smaller amount. And perhaps the program of this small unit will be created by firefighters so that it can be granted higher funding. We leave it to the firefighters. I encourage all my fellow Members to start their imaginations on what tasks we can gain from these resources. Perhaps it will be a warning training for villagers, how to behave in situations where all the time, e.g. In the spring, we're fighting grass burning. Maybe we'll finally do some training for the residents, what are the risks, and that'll be the program. Maybe we can do something like that. a presentation for children on how to behave in emergency situations. We have, for example. such a beautiful program for firefighters, for small kids, I am small, I know more. Why don't we just buy our kids uniforms as part of this training to teach them how to alarm them? There are different forms. I would like to point out here that funding is possible. The program, as the Minister said, is years old. This year we determine that this is 82 million, and next year we will define in the Budget Act what this is going to be for next year. It will simply be specified annually in the bill. I encourage my fellow Members, as I said, to look for ideas on how to use these resources. I stress that they must be used and settled this year, by the end of the year. This will define an agreement that will be available on the website, as the Minister said. We will also promote it through our union structures, through CSR structures. We'll be helping the firefighters to make the most of this program. Once again, thank you very much to the Minister for launching this programme, which I think is another very important brick by which we value volunteer firefighters and support their activities for the local community and for Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u467	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u468	Volunteer firefighters, especially in small rural communities, are a very important support for the local population. The extension of the TSO's portfolio of tasks is an appreciation of their existing activities, while additional financial resources will allow them to increase their activity. Voluntary firefighters are such a form of civic activity that needs to be supported, so the bill is well-founded.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u469	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was submitted to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities (prints No 3618 and 3674). I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u470	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities, print No 3618. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 11 July 2019, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Health Commission for first reading. The draft law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities amends the amount used to calculate the lowest basic salary of staff of medicinal entities currently covered by the Act of 8 June 2017 on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities. The amendment concerns the calculation of the lowest basic salary for the period from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. The aim of the project is to change the so-called height. the basic amount on the basis of which the lowest basic salary is calculated so that at 1 July 2019 it is increased from PLN 3900 gross to PLN 4200 gross. The proposed amendment of the Act of 8 June 2017 will not result in the transfer of additional financial resources from both the State budget and the National Health Fund to healthcare providers in 2019. In the case of workers covered by the draft amendment to the Act whose employers receive funds from the National Health Fund, the cost of increases should be financed by employers from the resources obtained under the increasing revenues and correspondingly the costs of the National Health Fund. The proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. The proposed law will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Health Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 17 July 2019, requests that the High Sejm adopt the draft Print Act No 3618 without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u471	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities, print No 3618. The draft law is one of the elements of a systemic solution aimed at gradually improving the pay conditions of medicinal workers and reducing inequalities in the level of basic salaries of different groups of medicinal workers. The aim of the bill is to increase the level of the lowest basic salaries by changing the so-called. the basic amount on the basis of which the lowest basic remuneration is calculated. This amount at 1 July 2019 was PLN 3900 and is to be increased to PLN 4200 gross according to the project. The amendment concerns the calculation of the lowest basic salary for the period from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. In accordance with the provisions of the past law as at 1 July 2019, the basic salary of a medical professional and a basic worker other than a medical professional shall be increased by at least 20% of the amount which is the difference between the lowest basic salary and the basic salary of that worker. This amendment is intended to accelerate the pace of raising basic salaries and the achievement by the target workers of the lowest basic salaries set out in the Act of 8 June 2017. The draft law does not set the remuneration of certain staff members of medicinal entities, but merely sets out the lowest legally permissible basic salary for such staff. The draft envisages a change in the deadline for the signing of an agreement between employers and trade union organisations. There is a provision giving a monthly deadline for the signing of an agreement which will be the basis for these amendments. In the absence of an agreement between the employer and the trade union organisations, the employer has 14 days to implement these changes by order. On the basis of this project, workers employed in medicinal entities will be able to obtain several hundred PLN increases in the basic wage. I would like to stress that this project is part of a sustainable strategy for raising the salaries of medical personnel, and this is because the situation in the country, economic development, low unemployment, the increase in average wages in the economy leads to an increase in revenues from the National Health Fund and on the basis of this Prime Minister, the Minister could decide to increase the basic amount from PLN 3900 to PLN 4200, without waiting for the end of 2020. I would like to remind you that the National Health Fund's financial plan has already changed several times. With regard to the original plan and to the entities, namely hospitals, an amount of 7.5 billion more than the original plan was intended. Therefore, it appears that there should be no turbulence associated with the implementation of this law. The proposed changes, I hope, will have a positive impact on the situation of workers covered by this regulation whose basic salaries are lower than the lowest basic salaries in the wage net. Following the proposed change in wages, they will need to be increased, which seems very good not only for workers but also for health professionals and, above all, for patients. For years, we have been struggling with a small number of medical personnel and it seems that all the changes in wage increases that Law and Justice has been making in recent years are already delivering the expected results, for example in the area of nurse employment. We know that, for example. This year, for the first time, all graduates of medical schools received the right to pursue their profession. So you can see that this trend is changing in a positive way, and I would like to remind you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that in 2015 only 30% took away the right to pursue the profession.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u473	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u474	I would like to add from this point of view, of course, that the Law and Justice support the proposed project in full scope. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u475	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u476	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! The Act amends the Law from 2 years ago and raises to a small extent the basic amount according to which the minimum basic remuneration of health professionals is calculated following the application of the indicators. The bill is small. The amount of PLN 3900 to be applied by the end of this year is changed from 1 July to PLN 4200. The minister at the committee meeting did not explain to us why this base amount is to be PLN 4200, not PLN 4300 or PLN 4500. In fact, it wonders why, despite the fact that this law raises the basic amount for employees, according to which the minimum amount of basic salary will be calculated, the government does not give a single zloty to implement it. [[Well, if it isn't, it's $7.5 billion.]] There are zeros everywhere. For a period of 10 years, costs for the state budget - zero. What does the justification say and what did we hear on the committee? [[7.5 billion.]] I want hospital directors to pay for these raises. Hospital managers are to find money to sign the agreement within 2 weeks and then withdraw from 1 July, even though employers had planned increases since 1 January. But that's not the point. We're all for picking it up. Because, in fact, as the number of people is read, and the fact that in some professions today the minimum wage is PLN 2040 and those to whom the salary should be increased is 94 thousand, in fact in this day and age, in the crisis of medical staff this money will cause even greater crisis, and hospitals today are already in a dramatic situation because you pay them lump sums, there are no overperformances, the amount of lump sums comes from 2015. You have raised some valuation of certain medical benefits, but neither in the justification of this project nor on the committee has it been established whether the funds you will receive through increased contracts for certain medical benefits, although in part they will cover what you are planning to do here. You don't really spend anything on medical benefits. Everything's gonna go up because they have to be paid. So really, the increase will be at the expense of patients being treated in hospitals. The government did not find 97 million zlotys for this - it gives money without giving them. Minister! We have just dealt with the Law on the provision of financial support for the statutory activities of voluntary firefighters. It is very good that there will be such support because these volunteers carry out great tasks. It turned out that 82 million PLN could be found by the end of the year. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration found money for volunteers from the TSOs to save people's property and lives during fire procedures, and you and your boss have no hits at the Prime Minister's. In the case of that project, the Prime Minister will even be able to move funds in the budget in accordance with a law which I hope will be adopted. In this case, you're telling them to find the principals. Did you hear what the medical professionals said at the committee meeting? They really spoke in a very calm tone and said: we expected someone to finally discuss these indicators with us, that we would discuss issues related to which profession and which education on the basis of which indicator the minimum basic salary will be calculated. These conversations are gone, and we're surprised that suddenly something hits. We are happy to get the money, but we need to talk about those employees who actually have the lowest, really small salaries. They're about to quit the competition they're doing. In the event of a dramatic situation, they may lose their jobs. I'm talking about the dramatic situation in hospitals. [[That's what this bill is for.]] Minister! Can't you at the Ministry of Health talk to the President of the Council of Ministers and convince him that human health and life are just as important as fire fighting? You can't find the sources of funding. You need 97 million zlotys, and you're supposed to have 100 billion in NFZ, you've got so much money that shelves bend from excess of that bill, but on nurses, on physiotherapists and [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't have money on health workers. Tell me why it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u477	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u478	Of course, we support the bill because we want this money to go to people who work in health care, but it's so bad that it really... I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u479	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The project provides in particular for an increase from 1 July 2019 of the basic amount on the basis of which the lowest basic salary is calculated for staff employed in medical establishments, from PLN 3900 to PLN 4200. This is certainly a step in the right direction, but it is unfortunately only an ad hoc action, and not a system action required by medical professionals. The aim of the Act, i.e. to increase the lowest basic salaries, will certainly be achieved, but this will not solve the problem of unfair treatment of persons performing individual medical professions. This problem is perfectly illustrated by the table of salaries of the employees of these professions attached to the project. Analyzing the data given in it, as we can see on the palm of the hand a reward discrimination against physiotherapists and laboratory diagnostics. It's completely incomprehensible to me that this is unfair. Prevention and early diagnosis play a key role in modern health systems, and the actions of rehabilitators who help patients return to their pre-morbid state as soon as possible contribute to reducing the costs of sick leave, which is an obvious profit for the economy of each country. That's why it's important, among other things. that those performing these professions begin to be treated as they deserve. Apart from health issues, it simply pays off for economic reasons. Health is an investment. It is necessary to understand that investment should also be made in people. I hope that the government will take these comments to heart as soon as possible with an amendment on labour rates and adopt sustainable and fair wage solutions instead of focusing only on ad hoc measures that de facto conflict the workers of medicinal entities. Regardless of our comments and reservations about unfair disparities between the various professional groups, the Kukiz Club15 will support this draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u481	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u482	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities. The title of the Act is long and quite complicated, and at first glance it seems quite simple: it is about money, increases for people, some people, as stated, employed in medicinal entities. The explanatory memorandum states that, although the Act of 8 June 2017 has already led to a significant increase in the remuneration of the workers concerned, the level of earnings is still considered to be too low by some of the representatives of health professionals. I don't think it's just what you think, but it is. The change of the basic amount from PLN 3900 gross to PLN 4200 gross of this situation will not improve, will not change much, and as in the Committee on Health professionals, trade union representatives, in many areas will antagonize individual groups or medical professions. High Seym! I would like to put a few questions, express a few doubts, on the basis of this very short bill. First of all, the law, as I said, is very short, semi-paged, three-Article, which does not clearly address the problem - here the wage problem, but also any other problem - must go through the whole legislative process: government arrangements, then first reading, second reading... Or are there gonna be adjustments? Again, committee, third reading, senate, president's signature... and uff. Yeah, that's right. Will it be: ehh? And what did we get? Did we solve this? I say here: we as a parliament or as a government. And if so, for how long? This question is not just about this bill. We're just making life complicated. We bind a lot of people in this process, and I don't think it makes any sense. In a healthy economy, in a healthy social fabric, should not such a decision be made at the level of the manager, the manager, at the level - under our conditions - of the Minister's order? Why such a complicated process? The second question, the second question, sort of the first question. If Parliament, read: the state, decides to increase wages, increase costs, it should be obvious that the same body is spending additional money to cover these costs. Is that so? Well, I'm afraid not. It already sounded here today. In particular, we read in the explanatory memorandum: the proposed amendment of the Act of 8 June 2017 will not result in the transfer of additional funds from the state budget to medical entities in 2019, over the current planned ones, as well as from the NFZ. In the case of employees covered by the draft amendment to the Act whose employers receive funds from the National Health Fund, the cost of increases should be financed by employers from funds obtained under the supposedly increasing - it is already mine: supposedly, added - revenues and corresponding costs of the National Health Fund. That's what I'm talking about. How do you say that? What do you call it? I must also point out, because it is important that in the first quarter of this year. The debt of the sector of independent public health establishments is already PLN 17,300 million, including PLN 2,200 million. Where's the rising income? Where's the money in the system? This proposal or what's in the explanatory statement has nothing to do with reality. I can only conclude without any satisfaction, nor politically, that a very important, very sensitive area of social life awaits a crash, unfortunately. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u483	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made a statement in writing. Mr Marek Ruciński, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u484	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities seems to relate to a simple increase in the basic amount used to calculate salaries in the health sector. Unfortunately, this project contains regulations that, instead of healing the system, will increase the debt of many hospitals. When Law and Justice presented their proposal two years ago, in a construction very similar to a civil project, the greatest doubts were raised by the labour factors assigned to each profession. They were very different from those reported by the medical community. However, without paying attention to these opinions, the rulers adopted a project in which a long-term prospect of reaching a certain level of remuneration was outlined for each profession. This allowed hospital directors to plan a budget for their wages. However, it is a pity that this time it is completely forgotten that we have the middle of the reference period and that the amount of the lump sum granted to hospitals will not change any more. The additional funds, as clearly stated yesterday at the committee meeting of the Minister, are intended to cover the increase in the value of the benefits. Since many of these benefits are extremely undervalued, they will only now start to balance. Therefore, these measures cannot be used to finance increases in workers and related derivatives. The directors of all units at the beginning of the year have developed financial plans, which already require a lot of effort. The wage costs represent a very significant position and must therefore be known in good time. Of course, I understand the relationship approach that fights for wage growth, but they also point out that a key factor in this respect should be to change the coefficients rather than to juggle the base amount. Today, these factors are the reason for many discussions within the environment and the source of protests by various professional groups. For example, I will exchange laboratory diagnostics, physiotherapists, and pharmacists. Their work is often unnoticed, but without their participation the health system would not function normally. However, people with higher education and excellent qualifications are often earning around PLN 2250 gross at the moment. For them, this increase will be negligible, because the coefficient for their work is simply criminally low. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The end of the term of office is coming up. The amendment we are discussing today is typically electoral. The proof that this project has been prepared quickly and negligently is that we will vote on solutions that will enter into force retroactively. Moreover, I fear that raising the base amount may become a standard. The governments will prefer once again to revise the law rather than actually make the pay in the health sector dependent on the national average. As a doctor, of course, I support environmental demands and I want health workers to have decent working conditions and pay. However, I must also bear in mind the voice of the directors of hospitals and founding bodies, medical entities, which are often powiats. Unfortunately, this one is unambiguous. Many hospitals simply cannot afford to receive increases in the middle of a surprise settlement period without consulting and granting additional resources to implement them. Action to vote on popular solutions for which others will pay is extremely irresponsible. Knowing how difficult the financial situation of many hospitals is, I cannot accept their next burden just because the campaign is ongoing. If your marshal will allow me, I would like to thank President Andrzej Jacyna for 3 years of effective management of the National Health Fund, the bank of our money, the bank of Poles who transferred money to our accounts every month - these were health accounts. The President managed this fund despite a certain financial miserage, which was caused by the imposition of top-down payment obligations, which the NFZ should never have carried out. Recent Laws Prominently Proceded this is confirmed by the failure to indicate the sources of their funding. Mr President's views on the future of health funding have always been rational, and with the recent statements by Mr President, which led to his dismissal, it is difficult to disagree. I wish the doctor, and I strongly believe that in the near future, you will manage a competitive payer who will break the NFZ monopoly. Dr. Jacin just knows how to do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u485	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Time - 1 minute to ask the question. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, asks the first question. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. [[I'm in a hurry. I'm sorry.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u486	Thank you. Minister! Of course it's a cool thing, a good thing, and the expected extra money will go to the doctors. On the other hand, I have a question of what is the real purpose of this bill, the purpose of this increase. Because if today, in the last 10 years, the waiting time for a visit to a specialist has doubled if we have almost 20,000 today. professional doctors over 70 years old, if the average age of doctors and nurses is over 50 years old, because 52 years old, it doesn't matter, Minister, if you increase your salary by 100% or 1000%, these doctors won't be younger and they won't be working anymore. What concrete solutions do you have to change this situation? I'm asking on behalf of patients, not doctors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u487	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u488	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Will regulations on the increase of the basic salary also cover hospital administrative staff? And the second question, Minister: How much will the lowest salary of a physiotherapist and laboratory diagnostician be when this law comes into force? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u489	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u490	Thank you very much. Minister! Looking at the discussion that took place yesterday at the committee's meeting, I would like to ask the Minister how, in response to all the comments made yesterday regarding the provisionality of this law, concerning the bad conversions that were not adequately consulted 2 years ago with health professionals, looking at the inequalities that are in the health sector, and the doubts raised during this debate, and the fact that the basic amount, looking at the large staff shortages, does not meet the expectations of health professionals. You probably remember the very bitter words of a representative of the Trade Union, who fell during the commission's work. I'd like to ask you what the government's plans are to amend this bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] these conversion factors, so that the workers really hope that this is something permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u491	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u492	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Clearly, we haven't talked about this long enough since some people still don't know who's really gonna benefit from these raises. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the least earners in hospitals will benefit from medical personnel. And here somebody's asking about the doctors. No, that's not what this amendment is all about. So thank you very much to the government, thank you Minister for this bill. It seems to be a step in the right direction. Of course, as I understand it, we need to keep going. talk to each other and look for further solutions. I am glad that, in the end, everyone in the committee supported this bill. Since I am speaking, I also join you in thanking President Jacina, because I think we all thank him, also the government side, for his accomplishments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] over the last four years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u493	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Raising the level of remuneration of medicinal products by 2020 Of course, it's great that you're planning extra money for medical personnel. But I wanted to ask, what about the promised raises for residents promised by the government? They agreed to stop the strike and the protests, and the government did not keep its word. Thank you. [[Those raises have already been given. A long time ago.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u495	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u496	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to continue with the question that Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel had just asked... [[Voice from the room: Wrong bill.]] ...what the raises look like for residents against this project. [[Excellent. A long time ago.]] And second question. Hospitals, especially county hospitals, are very indebted. Will they receive any funds for the payment of increased salaries, for example in the form of increased lump sums? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u497	Thank you, Member. Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u498	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think we all know that because of insufficient funding from the state budget, hospitals are facing a financial gap, and you know it perfectly well, Minister, because the government still hasn't led to a 15% increase in lump sum. The government still hasn't covered the cost of all the raises and there are still no voluntary benefits of night and Christmas health care when it comes to network hospitals. I would like to remind you that on 2 April, local government officials, directors and hospital staff protested in Warsaw before the health department, demanding mainly the solution of these three issues. So I wanted to ask you if imposing further new obligations on the hospital, mainly the county hospital, without providing funding for their implementation is the government's answer when it comes to helping and healing the situation, a very bad situation in health care? I wanted to ask you, Minister, where the counties, the elders and employers are supposed to take the money for these increases and whether the project has been consulted because it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] government project, with local governments and employers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u499	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u500	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Low wages in health care it is not only a damage for the health of Polish patients, but also for the Polish budget. We spend huge money on training physiotherapists, nurses, doctors who later work abroad. Almost half of Polish physiotherapists work abroad. They work because that's where they pay decently. I wanted to ask, Minister, how many doctors have left Poland in the last 12 years and how much it costs to have one doctor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u501	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Paweł Rychlik, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u502	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The huge problem of Polish hospitals, Polish health services are staff shortages, which are the result of the passiveness and helplessness of the authorities for decades. In view of the above, I would like to ask you: In your opinion, Minister, will the changes made lead to a return to the profession of nurses, midwives, persons engaged in other medical professions who, due to their poor earnings in recent years, have left their jobs in a trained profession? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u503	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u504	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As already noted here, this law entered into force two years ago. Two years ago, we discussed in very detail why this law was created, what is the purpose of this law. The same discussion also took place a year ago when we amended this law. We have explained to you what the purpose of this law is, why such regulation is taken by the government. Now, like boomerang, the same questions are coming back, so let me remind you again. In 2015, when we analysed the level of remuneration of individual employees within the various occupational groups as well as within one group, examining the remuneration of employees on comparable jobs, it turned out that there were huge differences in the remuneration of individual employees. Chimneys were created, and this level of wages was far removed from e.g. comparable salaries at the same workstations in the same therapeutic entity or other medicinal entities. Many times to the Ministry of Health, government representatives have just been influenced by the fact that there is a huge inequality in terms of employees' salaries. Therefore, the Government, the Government of Law and Justice, decided to prepare a project and then to re-act and implement a law that regulates the minimum level of basic remuneration. This law was the first act of this type, which was prepared and implemented by the current government. We accepted it in order to establish a minimum remuneration at a level that would guarantee a good level of remuneration. We have taken into account various factors or criteria in the drafting of this law. This project was strongly discussed in the Social Dialogue Council, in the joint government and local government committee, as well as being the subject of public consultation for at least 30 days. They all had the opportunity to make their comments. And that was the purpose of this law: to compensate for inequalities and to indicate a minimum level of remuneration. We were aware that many of the workers who had been educated in our country: doctors, nurses, diaphragms, physiotherapists, unable to count on a decent salary, decided to leave the country, and unfortunately began to become more and more, year by year felt a lack of medical staff. This law was therefore intended to prevent such situations. I will now turn to the answers to specific questions. The honourable Member asks why the base amount would be raised to PLN 4200. I explained it to you on the committee, but let me explain it to you again. Ladies and gentlemen! By adopting the bill 2 years ago, we thought that the base amount of PLN 3200 would be the amount that would give a real rise to the salaries of employees, but on the other hand, the directors of medicinal entities would be able to raise it to that amount, taking into account the amounts provided by the National Health Fund for the provision of health services. At that time, 2 years ago we decided that this base amount was safe at the level of PLN 3200. Following an analysis of the collection of contributions, the country's economic situation, the current government, the Minister of Health, came to the conclusion that it is possible to increase this basic amount to PLN 4200 and thus to increase this ceiling of increases which will take place since the middle of this year. This amount was discussed within the Social Dialogue Council. It is not true that it was not discussed, because it was the Social Dialogue Council that was expecting an increase in the basic amount at the moment. The representatives of the Social Dialogue Council considered that we should really still discuss indicators, but here and now it is important to raise the base amount. And this was negotiated, we got an agreement, which is why this amount was introduced into the bill. The increase, of course, has been in force since 1 July, not since 1 January, as you said. The draft of this law did not introduce the date of 1 January, always the date from which these increases would be made was 1 July. Many of the questions raised the question of covering the consequences of this regulation. I have explained this to you many times in the Committee on Health, and we very often present it in public space: there is a progressive increase in health expenditure. The measures shall be transferred to the therapeutic entities. This year, as you said, there has been a four-fold change in the financial plan, the cost of health benefits has been increased and lump sums have been secured. I would like to remind you that from 1 April only the amount of PLN 680 million was allocated to the increase in the value of the benefits, which included an increase in the value of the benefits... [[Billions short.]] I'm only talking about benefits that are performed in the surgical and internist ward. Only in these two branches did we raise this amount. As we have calculated, it turns out that these amounts should already be enough to finance the cost of this increase. Another revision of the financial plan was made in June and since 1 July there are further increases in the valuation of benefits, as well as an increase in the lump sum, among others. for hospital rescue units of 5 and 15% , also in the field of rehabilitation, sanatorium treatment. It's all included, among others. in the increase in the financial plan. We estimate that increases in rehabilitation and sanatorium benefits will increase by around 5%. So it is not true that there is no increase in lump sums. There is a clear increase in lump sums. This year we are already planning that we will spend over PLN 97 billion on health protection, which is an obvious increase, for example, compared to 2015, when 76 billion PLN was spent on health protection. We estimate that there will be another increase in resources this year. That's another line. Of course, she also raised the point that there would be a pay gap, that there would be no guarantee of raising the wages of the least earners, which is not true, because the least earners will benefit most from this law, because it forces even increases to this minimum level. [[What are the forks?]] In such a way that every year in the middle of the year each director is required to increase the basic salary - this year by 20%, next year by 20%, so this is exactly set out in the bill. Read it to yourself. The next question, Mr Kozłowski, was whether this law regulates wage problems comprehensively. You said it was ad hoc. This is not ad hoc because, as you can see, since 2017, the Act clearly indicates that an annual amount must be allocated to an increase in salaries. The Act sets out the final remuneration rates to be achieved in 2021. So this is not an ad hoc action, it is a system action which is aimed at guaranteeing an increase in the remuneration of all professional groups that participate in the provision of benefits. You also mentioned that physiotherapists and diagnes are unfairly treated. I don't know which record you read it from, because when we look at the table, that's where the education criterion is. Thus, if the diagnosis has a higher education and specialization, it has the same rate and level of remuneration as a representative of another profession with a higher education and specialization. So there is absolutely no discrimination here. If a physiotherapist or a diagnostician has a bachelor's degree, this is also comparable, the same minimum remuneration as in the case of a representative of another profession with this level of education. So that's what eliminates unfair treatment of individual workers and these disparities. Mr Łopa asked what we had solved by this law, whether the decision to increase wages should be made at the level of managers. Yeah, she should, but she doesn't. The Minister regulates this law because it simply doesn't collapse. That's our answer. You also asked about the costs. I've talked about these costs many times. Four-time revision of the financial plan, the appropriations are earmarked for this. If we increase the value of benefits, then in health care there are labour costs. So... [[Is there real debt?]] ...if there are labour costs, then there is automatically money for wages. This is equivalent to the fact that, by increasing the financing of the benefit, we are transferring funds to increase wages. This is the case and there have already been several increases. [[Is there a real amount of debt?]] The debt problem, Mr President, must be addressed in a number of contexts. [[Real?]] I think that the issues of management skills and supervision should also be looked at. So that I think these are other issues that determine these effects. Another question, Mr Ruciński, was also a lump sum. You also mentioned that flat rates don't grow. Dear Member - there is no Member - if you do not believe what we say, please address the Regional Directors of the National Health Fund and request data on the lump sum for the previous year and this year of the specific medicinal entity. You will see that there is a clear difference. I stress: flat rates from year to year, from month to month, are increasing. I already told you about the base amount. The question was why not change the coefficients, but the base amount. Because it was established in the discussions, in negotiations with the social side, at the Social Dialogue Council, where we talked about this for hours. The main expectation there today was an increase in the base amount, hence the government's decision to prepare a project that would increase the base amount. The Member also said that this increase in the basic amount could become a norm. Yes, it will become the norm because that is exactly what we want to increase this base amount gradually, depending on the situation in the national economy. That's what we're trying to do, because as a result of the base amount, the salary will increase. Of course, since 2020, this basic amount will no longer be set out in the Act, but will be linked to the average national remuneration in the national economy. Mr Skutecki also mentioned, saying that it was a nice thing that money was flowing to doctors. So once again, I'd like to point out that it's not just the doctors. This is a law whose title itself speaks about shaping the remuneration of employees employed in medicinal entities. It's the law that's the least affected by doctors at this point. So I think it's worth noticing, too. Next question: Will the queues be cut short? This is a complex problem. You said that even if we put the other one in there, the queues wouldn't be cut short. Dear Member, from the moment we have clearly increased the salaries of nurses and doctors, we have eliminated the phenomenon of travel, labour migration. As you said here, at the moment doctors do not go abroad. Not enough, they come back and employ themselves in the Polish health care system. [[Then listen to the nurses.]] The proof of this is the fact that last year [[♪ The bell ♪]] more professional rights have been issued than nurses have completed their studies in the nursing departments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u505	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: I haven't answered all the questions. I know, Minister, but we're so behind schedule. Thank you very much. You've responded very extensively. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Please.]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u506	Minister! Is the expected increase in the remuneration of healthcare professionals combined with a transfer of funds in the budget and a transfer of additional appropriations under existing medical contracts to medicinal products?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities. This project aims to unfreeze the basic amount of the minimum basic salary of medical and other staff involved in the performance of the benefits. According to the new regulations from 1 July, the base amount will increase from PLN 3900 to PLN 4200 gross. Thanks to this action will increase salaries of workers earning the least. As we all know, wages in health care are low, which is one of the reasons for today's shortage of medical personnel in Poland. I'm glad it's starting to change. That the current government has a plan to make it more attractive for the medical profession and consistently pursues it. The number of schools is increasing, salaries are increased, spending on Polish health care is increased. In my view, it requires that these rules guarantee a systematic increase in minimum basic salaries and that this issue has never been regulated before. Furthermore, it is also important that, according to previous assumptions, today's base amount of PLN 3900 gross was to apply until 2020. Accelerating the increase of this amount to PLN 4200 so that it is already in force since July this year is, in my opinion, a very expected change. Moreover, it shows that work on improving the working conditions of workers employed in medicinal entities is ongoing. On an ongoing basis, our economic situation is being analysed, which we know is good at the moment, and we are proposing solutions that we are all waiting for, thanks to which health professionals will eventually be properly rewarded without having to work on several jobs, which will slowly heal Polish health care and adapt it to the growing demand resulting, among others. because we are one of the fastest ageing societies in Europe. Once again, I say that there is much more to be done in this area. However, I am convinced that what has already been done and the changes that have already been announced are good for the future. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u508	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of eHealth solutions (prints 3620 and 3650). I ask Mr Kazimierz Matuszny to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u509	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Marshal, I promise I'll speed things up. High Izbo! On 16 July, the Health Committee held its first reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of eHealth solutions, prints No 3620 and 3650. It is a law that is needed, which is confirmed by the committee's course, in terms of, for example, the positions of the different backgrounds represented at the committee meeting. High Izbo! The Commission supported the draft, together with the amendments adopted, without objection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u510	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm decided that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u511	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of solutions in the area of eHealth, print no. 3620. This extremely useful law includes changes in several laws. This is very modest: some laws, but this is indeed a very difficult, very extensive and very useful law because of the changes it is introducing. Computer science, IT tools are increasingly entering health care. This happens sometimes in a planned way, sometimes spontaneously arise, and well, various kinds of solutions, databases. And there comes a time in which all these possibilities belong, not fully exploited, integrated, and that is what this law does. Moreover, some possibilities for the introduction of IT tools require legal solutions, not just good will and implementation. This bill consumes these needs. It is a very difficult law - and I thank the Ministry for taking this initiative - because if someone examines its records, it will see, in many laws, changes, solutions that will enable integration, but whoever designed it must have seen very widely implications for the implementation of IT tools to protect health. What does this bill offer? What's possible? It's just part of the opportunity that I'm about to introduce to you. One possibility - this is one area of action - is the authorisation of medical assistants to write e-recipes and referrals. So far, medical assistants have been able to write exemptions, and at the moment they will also be able to write e-prescriptions and e-directions - e-prescriptions since 8 January 2020, e-direction since 8 January 2021. Here I draw attention to the diligence - not since 1 January, when citizens, all institutions are involved in a different type of action, and these are only days off, just on 8 January, so that it can be put in place in an orderly and peaceful manner. Such authorisations will also be available to doctors who do not work in the health care system or other healthcare establishments. Another area is to facilitate the issue of prescriptions. On one electronic desk you will be able to prescribe medications for 360 days. This type of solution works for paper recipes, but there you need to prescribe medications for shorter periods. Here, one prescription is enough for 360 days. The catalogue of people who will be able to use such prescriptions for which pro familiae recipes may be issued has been extended. They are people who remain in common life, connected in the sideline. Prescriptions pro auctore, which can also be displayed, can be paper and electronic at the same time. There's no time limit here. The doctor will be able to choose a form that is more friendly to him. But it's not just those areas. New functions have been introduced in the individual patient account. The ZIP will gradually be extinguished, but the individual patient account will replace it and expand its capabilities. The directory of persons authorized to issue prescriptions in the 75+ program will be extended. This will be done by specialists, including hospital doctors after the patient's treatment has been completed. These are changes expected by healthcare providers, by patients, and it is good that this happens. Electronic medical records will be made available, to an even wider extent they will be integrated and absorbed into the system as if the databases already functioning in health care in this wide area, in the health sector, in other areas. That's the way it's gonna be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] they will now be more accessible. So that the Law and Justice Club not only supports, but also recommends that the House adopt this law, this useful law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u512	Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u513	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since we are so late, I will try to shorten my speech because my previous speaker basically mentioned all the provisions and objectives of this law. I will present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government bill amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of solutions in the area of eHealth. Like my previous speaker said, it's a huge bill on changes in many laws. We only have that kind of comment. For 4 years, we have been asking you to allow doctors to write 75+ medications on the same basis as POZ doctors because of the need to reduce queues. It's a little late, but it happened. Well, that's good, but we've waited a long time. We expect one more thing, Minister. It is, so to speak, the beginning of this whole cycle, because today we are looking forward to such computerization, which will make it easier for doctors to work and allow shorter queues of patients to be as it is in other countries of the European Union, where the patient is addressed to a specialist doctor, and the specialist doctor can, thanks to the IT system, look at his card and his medical history in POZ. At the hospital, however, a doctor can read all the data relating to the history of his treatment in the family doctor and the specialist when he is receiving the patient after opening the system, and it works the other way, information, an information card of the patient who is discharged from the hospital, the results of his research are transferred to the POZ doctor's database. Of course, we are in favour of this law, because it is a step forward. And we're gonna watch it go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u514	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u515	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by saying that you can't get away with computerization in health care anymore. We are a little late today, but we can still be a European and maybe even a global avant-garde in this area, but for this we need real computerization instead of sham actions that have cost us, Poles, big billions of zlotys. By the way, Minister, four years ago you spoke out loud that I would express myself so parliamentaryly, about irregularities in computerization, about the fact that with the project P1 costing without a small 1 billion zlotys, I would again be a diplomat, unabsolutely honest disposal of public money. That's what this government said at the beginning of its term. Did anyone answer for this until today, or did they charge someone because it's wasted giant money from our taxes? But let's leave the story. Today we have a government project that changes up to a dozen laws. As a result, this will simplify the ordination of medicinal products, medical devices, unify prescriptions with a cross-border prescription, create tools to assist doctors in determining the level of refund of certain medicinal products in the event of their ordination on the basis of a prescription in electronic form. And as for the assumptions, the project is not controversial. Of course, doctor's time is too valuable for a taxpayer and a patient to fill in electronic prescriptions and referrals, since it can do so cheaper and equally well as a medical assistant. The extension of the period of validity of the prescription from 30 days to one year is a bow to patients. It's the right thing to do. Finally, the doctor will not have to take responsibility for determining the refund level, because it will be done by an electronic tool implemented on platform P1. That's a very good solution. And finally, you are repairing the manifest error indicated by the opposition during the parliamentary work and extending the list of entities entitled to a prescription for seniors over 75 years of age. It is difficult not to regard the proposed changes as good or even very good, and at least rational and necessary, and therefore the Kukiz Club15 will of course support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u516	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u517	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Of course, my colleague and I have sometimes divided into speeches, because of the fact that it is about computer science and the digital commission, my colleague works in the Health Committee. It's very good that this bill is. It's a shame it's so late. We've all been waiting for him for a long time, and I think we're glad he finally is, and it's in the form he's been presented. As my colleague said, of course we will support the project. We would also very much ask the Minister, if you have such information, to answer the question, whether for these losses, billions in fact, as can be said, the money that we spent on all this implementation for many, many years - I remember how the patient's online account, the first version of it, the pink version, I was playing, or I couldn't call it, in 2011 - what were really pumped billions, someone was settled or if you were planning to settle someone for it. On the other hand, Minister, we pay attention to what the Office of Sejm Analysis has drawn attention to. The proposed law regulates many processes and operations related to the processing of personal data of patients, the most sensitive data that can be imagined. Exactly the same area is here 25. That's a lot. I quote the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office: Due to the large scale of the processing of personal data by the health sector, there is a reasonable risk of implementing organizational and technical security measures. I believe, Minister, that we should not underestimate these concerns. Moreover, it can be said that Poland is entering a certain stage of state informationization, which we have been waiting for for for a long time. So if these patient data -- you're probably gonna, I hope, assure us here in this House -- are gonna be completely safe, then I understand that it's gonna be the same level of security that we could provide, for example. when voting over the Internet, because if the voters' data is to be very secure, then I think that the patient data should be even more secure or at the same level. So are we ready for this? If so, it is clear to me that one of the next projects or the first projects in the new term of the Sejm will be the one concerning the introduction of electronic voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u518	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u519	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I have the honour to present our position towards the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of solutions in the area of eHealth. High Seym! This extensive law incorporated into the proceedings at this meeting of the Sejm without maintaining the required time to read its regulations changes the legal provisions in a dozen or so laws. Yeah, in a dozen bills. And a horse with a row of who had the time and followed substantively and logically the proposed changes. It should be recognised and believed that changes are needed, expected, good - so out of justification - and for the faith and responsibility of the government to accept them. I am just wondering how many changes and inconsistencies will indicate in this comprehensive bill the Senate Legislative Office, which we will probably have to deal with in an additional session of the Sejm on 30 August. Yeah, but this is the future. And now, in general, what these changes relate to, what area they cover. For example, these existing rules provide for a number of detailed regulations for the issue of prescriptions in the area of ordination of medicinal products and medical devices. This is the extension of the period during which the e-prescription can be implemented from 30 to 365 days. Unification of the prescription means that the e-prescription issued in Poland in a simple way can be implemented in the European Union and in the EFTA member countries. This also allows for the use of an IT tool to assist doctors in determining the level of refund, as well as the possibility of authorising medical assistants to issue e-recipes and e-directions, which, of course, is assumed to significantly facilitate and speed up the work of doctors. The law we are working on also introduces solutions to expand the functionality of the IKP, i.e. the individual patient account, in several areas, as has already been mentioned. I can only remind you that it is a matter of making declarations of consent to the processing of personal data, of making a declaration of choice for a primary care doctor or a primary care nurse, of access to information on services and healthcare services provided by him, of applying for a European Health Insurance Card and of a whole range of other areas. High Seym! These are just some of the areas of change that are being introduced by this law. The haste justified by the supposedly social expectation, perhaps so, will probably cause a number of mistakes, because that is just what happens. Probably, as in the case of proceeding on changes in pharmaceutical law, which we are about to proceed on, because there is another point, so to speak colloquially, inserted at the last minute at this session of the Sejm, the translation of the Ministry will be: we thought so. Really without any political tone and no malice: this is not how a stable law should be created. That's just how legal chaos is created. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u520	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u521	Thank you. Minister! Just a quick question. Medical assistants can already sign e-releases. How many assistants sign these papers and how many doctors? Surely the Ministry has such percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u522	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u523	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As your marshal sees, I'm trying as fast as I can. Minister! The above project assumes among others. possibility of authorising medical assistants to sign e-recipes and e-directions. Is it possible for several doctors to authorise one medical assistant to write e-recipes and e-directions? It could completely change the form when it comes to how it all looks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u524	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u525	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I already said that at the committee meeting. Once again, I would like to thank the Ministry for finally moving hard with computerization in health care, because we have many years behind here. I think we're all happy that these solutions are being implemented. On the one hand, I think it's worth remembering what it was like four years ago. On the other hand, I'd like to ask you about your plan. This may not be about this term, because we will not be able to achieve it, but about what should be done under the eHealth programme in the next term of the Sejm. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u526	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft law proposes extending the duration of the prescription from 30 days to 365 days. Does this mean that so far restrictions on one-off drug purchase, e.g. will they be abolished regularly? That's one thing. Isn't that gonna cause perturbation in buying drugs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u528	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u529	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It would be appropriate to thank you for this bill, but on the other hand, it would be necessary to ask why it is so late. We have the most expensive medical secretaries right now, because that's what you should call doctors. How else can one say if a doctor writes pampers? In fact, it should be done by someone else, not by a doctor. I'm glad it's going to be done by medical assistants now. But where do you get them? We know that we have great shortages. Again we read that there is a delay in the deadline for introducing the obligation to issue e-recipes and e-directions due to the need to implement changes in ICT systems. Another delay, years of delay. My colleagues have already asked, I hope there will be an answer, whether the wrong money spent for the PO-PSL coalition will be settled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u530	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u531	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When is the Ministry of Health going to put into practice a full IT system so that information on the treatment of a patient of POZ is available electronically from both the AOS doctor and the doctor who looks after the patient in the hospital? Surely such a process would improve the quality and effectiveness of the treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u532	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u533	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's just that the computerization of health care is really hot. It's never enough reminders, so I'd ask the Minister to give you a few facts documenting this very thesis. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask Mr Latos for information on what awaits us in the next two years because this process needs to continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u534	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Janusz Cieszyński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u535	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. I hope I can answer them precisely enough. I begin with questions by Mr Skutecki and Mr Masłowski about assistants. This is the case: with regard to the number of assistants who present these electronic exemptions today, we unfortunately do not have such data. The Social Insurance Institution has them because today these are data, these are documents, these are e-ZLAs that are processing the Social Security Office. That is why we do not have such information, but the Social Security Office will certainly be able to give you such information and we will know what the number is. With regard to Mr Masłowski's question as to whether such an assistant can serve, support more than one doctor, yes, it is possible here: many to many, i.e. each doctor can have more than one assistant, and each assistant can support more than one doctor. With regard to Mr Sachaika's question, which is where to get medical assistants, this is, of course, an option that everyone can benefit from. We know that in many medical subjects these assistants are already functioning today. The idea of introducing medical assistants in practice came actually at the time of the introduction of electronic layoffs, mainly because it was indicated that already very often one person writes paper releases and then gives them to the doctor only for signature. We found that if we were able to create a reliable IT system that would handle it, then we could do it in such a way that someone already on behalf of doctors on the basis of medical records, where the period of incapacity for work is indicated, would be able to issue such release, save it into the system. That's why the idea came up. We give everyone freedom. Therefore, we also offer the possibility to finance this from the sources available to the healthcare provider. We don't influence it here, there's no obligation to hire assistants. We just want to make it possible and sort of sanitize what's already working in the health care organization. As far as this shift is concerned, indeed - I am actually fighting my chest here - we are making this shift, Mr, by 7 days, from 1 January to 8 January. This is due to my personal traumatic experiences this year when I spent New Year's Eve at work and we were waiting for this first stage, this implementation that started on January 1. This is, as far as I'm concerned, my team, our responsibilities. I'm saying a little joke, but we know that this is also the work of hundreds of hospital computer scientists and medical professionals who would have to de facto come to work on January 1st, and you all know that we all have completely different things to do on January 1st. That's why such a shift seems rational. So that January 1st, later the Feast of the Three Kings, then one working day and then another day, on which you can move with these changes. It seems like such a practical, rational move. As for the questions that Mr Papke has asked when there is a full system, ladies and gentlemen, this system is actually being created now. The first element, the e-recipe, is already functioning. As far as e-direction is concerned, piloting is ongoing. As far as electronic medical records are concerned, she's on her way, and that's something that's gonna come up next year. However, it is worth pointing out that we are also making such a big change here in the context of this vertical data flow, i.e. we are introducing the possibility of making the data available under the law to the primary healthcare doctor who has this patient on his list. This is very easy because such a doctor always - we want to strengthen the role of family doctors - will have by law, without the need for additional consent, access to information about prescriptions, referrals and this electronic medical documentation. With regard to the date of entry into force of the obligation to keep this electronic medical file, to allow it to be exchanged, this is, ladies and gentlemen, 1 January or really after the changes we want to propose here, 8 January 2021, which is the year after the entry into force of the e-recept. As regards Mrs Czernow's question, which is the deadline for completing the prescription, we are actually extending it in the case of an e-prescription, because the situation with respect to the ordinary prescription is slightly changing, because the e-prescription can be partially realized, i.e. it will be possible to rewrite the dose for 360 days, while it will be possible to implement the individual parts of this e-prescription without having to obtain any copies. These functionalities are already available. In order to satisfy the doubts that, in some sense, I understand, Mrs Latos has put forward here, whether there will be too many medicines being issued once a year, because it would probably be too much, in the course of the committee's work - thank you very much to President Latos - Mr Latos has tabled an amendment and we are introducing such a rule that the prescription is for a year, but once a medicine can be spent in the pharmacy for no more than 6 months, so we are limiting this, we are introducing such a safety mechanism. I come fluently to the questions that Mr Latos and Mr Dziuba have asked. First of all, what has been done so far. As I mentioned: e-prescription, 3 million of these e-prescriptions have already been issued, more than 7 thousand. The doctors who issued such an e-prescription, more than 1.5 thousand. institutions. The piloting of e-direction is ongoing, and the number of these documents is growing systematically. The next players are connected to our platform, so that this goal that we have set ourselves, January next year, is in our view a real term. We also want these systems that we implement in other areas to be better and better, for example. As far as the system for monitoring education is concerned, we have introduced a significant number of amendments here. Now we have improved and improved - which is very useful in this situation that we have on the drug market - systems for monitoring the marketing of medicinal products. This is the way we want, I would say, permanently introduce the Polish health system. The point is, these systems are going to develop, and there's really no going back. It's not going to be that we're going to talk about plans, about what we might want to do, but we're just going to actually implement these solutions. Ladies and gentlemen! The most urgent solutions for the next term of office are, first of all, electronic medical registration, i.e. running appointment schedules in electronic form, in the form we often know - I'm a little afraid of this phrase - from private health care, where we can actually make a specific appointment. Poles expect this functionality. They also expect a second thing, which is easy access to their medical records. This is also a big thing, a big implementation and a very big challenge not only technological but also organisational, which will be before us in the next term of office. We would like these projects that are happening now to be successfully implemented. Very much work has already been done, while very much work has been done It's still ahead of us. Thank you very much for the favourable voices that have been voiced in the discussion, and I am pleased that the subject of health remains above the political divide. Thank you very much for your cooperation in committee work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u536	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u537	The bill undoubtedly responds to the expectations of all citizens, and also responds to long-term delays in the computerization of our health services. The implementation of the project will introduce a number of facilitations for patients, which can be revolutionary especially for older people. Therefore, I have a question: Is the Ministry in cooperation e.g. with POZ-ets intends to anticipate the relevant information campaign of its actions in implementing new eHealth solutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u538	Minister! In this regard, I have the following question: Will the functionality of the search system of the facility where you can obtain the benefit for which you received the referral and the remote registration, also as part of the service in the primary healthcare clinic, be improved as part of the wider IT system?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u539	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of solutions in the area of eHealth. This project is very extensive, it refers to many key laws for the functioning of health services in Poland. I am convinced that it contains solutions expected by both doctors and patients. Among them is the extension of the period during which the e-prescription can be implemented, from 30 days to 1 year, the creation of a mechanism automatically determining the level of payment for medications on the reception desk on the basis of the reimbursement indication and allowing medical assistants to issue e-recipes and e-directions. I am pleased to see this project, which is undoubtedly catching up on major delays in health IT. No one seems to have any doubt that the planned expansion of the functionality of online patient accounts is a step in a good, desirable direction. Access to electronic medical information or the possibility of submitting a declaration of choice to a doctor or primary healthcare nurse via the IKP are some of the proposed facilitations. I welcome the fact that one of the areas that these regulations also affect is the issue of issuing prescriptions for older people aged 75 years and over. According to the regulations designed, elderly people will also be able to obtain free medicines on the basis of e-prescriptions after this prescription has been issued by a specialist doctor or on discharge from the hospital. This is a change that has actually been proposed since the start of the 75+ Free Medicines Act. It is good that this solution has been worked out during this term of office of the Sejm. Healthcare IT is not just a good, desirable change. It is also the implementation of the announcement contained in the exposé of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, which he described as important for our development. More electronic solutions are less bureaucracy and more time, which the doctor can devote to the patient. Our reality becomes digital and I have no doubt that this project is an important element in introducing Polish health care into this reality. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u540	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 60 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act (prints No. 3653 and 3682). I would very much like to ask Mr Marcin Duszek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u541	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Government's draft law amending the pharmaceutical law contained in print No. 3653 entered the Sejm on 11 July 2019 and was then addressed to the Health Committee for the first reading. This project concerns the extension of the catalogue of medicinal products that are available in the pharmacy for non-patients or medicinal professionals to all non-prescription medicinal products, except for products containing psychoactive substances. The project we are considering is due to the recent adoption of the Pharmaceutical Law Act and the ambiguity of the understanding of the article. 86a and the resulting interpretations of the possibility for other entities than the population to buy medicinal products. They are mainly concerned with the pursuit of medical activities, such as, among others, medical activities. welfare homes, nursery, kindergartens, children's homes that have so far purchased medicinal products for their children. The Commission, at its meeting today, after first reading and considering this draft law, asks the High Sejm to adopt a print project No. 3653 without amendments. At the committee meeting, the Chief Pharmacy Council also expressed a positive opinion on the draft on behalf of the pharmaceutical community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u542	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u543	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act, print No. 3653. The Law and Justice Club recommends this bill, which aims to expand the number of medicinal products available in pharmacies not only for patients or healthcare professionals but also for other entities. This applies to all non-prescription medicinal products, so called. OTC preparations excluding products containing psychoactive substances, i.e. pseudoephedrine, codeine, dextromethorphan. This law will also have a positive impact on entrepreneurs by enabling them to purchase from the pharmacy of publicly available medicinal products, excluding the above mentioned. Law and Justice supports the proposed bill in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u544	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u545	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this change is the repair of the bubble that the PiS government introduced. [[Of course.]] There's nothing to brag about because she makes things possible for entrepreneurs. No, you took the opportunity first. You have penetrated the law, yes, in the right direction, because the basis for this action was to prevent the export of drugs, only this law has been reworded. In fact, pharmacists were facing up to 5 years in prison for selling OTC drugs for invoices to entities such as kindergartens, daycare, school camps, etc. It's caused a lot of perturbation. You have compared in this law the possibilities of a pharmacy with the possibilities of a general store that would sell such products, because only to such products have you brought the possibility of selling these medicines and issuing invoices. We also had reservations about the possibility of buying an invoice of medicines for children's homes and DPS. Today, at the committee meeting, we explained this with the Minister. I know that a message has been issued for DPSs and pharmacies, but we expect - the Minister said it was impossible, but we would still like it - an official communication or regulation addressed to DPS managers, children's homes, pharmacies, so that they would not be afraid to buy for invoices of these drugs for DPS users or children's home. In general, we are in favour of this amendment because it normalises what you have corrupted. It's a good thing it's happening so fast, it's just a month. In the future, however, we ask that, when changing the law or introducing a new law, we follow common sense and listen to the so-called. the total opposition, because I personally, on behalf of the Civic Platform, have tabled an amendment and if you had accepted it, today we would not have to debate at this time in this Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u546	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u547	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the revision of the Pharmaceutical Law Act. The rapporteur spoke about the need for a bill. There is no doubt that it is needed, but only the wording of one provision of the Act, art. 86a. And the question is, why are we here today? After all, we've recently changed this bill. It was April, which was quite recently. Of course, you have to fight illegal drug exports, only here we have gone, as you can see, far too far. You can laugh and make jokes about the work of the High House, only that we work here for taxpayers' money, who pay us to write good law, not for writing legal books. The Act we adopted proved to be a bad law on 26 April 2019, so a few months later at hours. 22.55 we're looking at it and we're changing what's been changed. Of course, Kukiz15 will support this law, which is one-page, but it is not the only one, nor, I fear, the last draft law, which needs to be dealt with and repaired, because the previous law was Badly prepared. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u548	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u549	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I have the honour to present our position, our opinion on the draft law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law. High Seym! When I spoke in the previous section on the health area, I concluded by calling for more care and a longer period of time to create the law. Now here, with this bill, you can only do it again. After all, the amendment of the pharmaceutical law was in April, which just occurred. This law is dated 26 April 2019, from a few months ago. I remember that discussion and the amendments that were tabled, but there was no response. Now such a translation of the ministry at the committee meeting that we thought we were, we were not aware, they're just out of place. The project improves the obvious shortcomings of the previous amendment by extending the catalogue of medicinal products that are available in the pharmacy for non-patients or healthcare professionals. However, the reasons for the previous amendment, which was intended to end a certain practice, to break the reverse chain of drug sales and to export them abroad, were right, it simply struck Polish patients. It is clear that even good intentions, good projects that are quickly adopted, written on the knee, can adversely affect the situation of patients in this case, and generally the situation of Poles. Of course, we will support this bill because it covers important issues for social life, but once again I ask the question: Why is this confusion? What's with the insecurities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u550	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. Will these be thanks or questions, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u551	We'll see. Anything can be done, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, no one had any doubts about this amendment and everyone voted in favour at the committee meeting. It's worth going back to the genesis of this change in pharmaceutical law. We all know about the drug mafia, we all know about the problems of moving drugs. This amendment, which we had adopted not so long ago, was adopted in connection with this practice. I think that we all want to limit this and the truth is that we may have gone too far in these legal solutions. [[Booze. In a word: bullshit.]] Now there's a correction here. I hope that this bill, which we adopted a few months ago, will prove effective in the fight against the drug mafia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u552	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u553	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a very specific question. The April amendment has created a huge problem in buying medicines. The organizers of school camps and colonies had a huge problem with buying medicines for children and young people. They were buying receipts. Will they be able, with specific receipts, to receive an invoice? Who's gonna issue that invoice? They can't account for what I wrote in the interpellation, but unfortunately... I hope there's an idea to solve this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u554	Thank you very much. Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u555	Minister! You've got to stop being so shy. The state is supposed to take care of people's health, not create inhuman procedures - that's what Prime Minister Beata Szydło said four years ago. Unfortunately, this term of office of the Sejm is characterised by draft laws, among which there are few government projects and most are parliamentary projects. Government projects are not consulted and MEPs do not require consultation. You're the law just like you are, which means you're the only quality. Minister! We can argue, we can go back to the projects, we can fix them, but that's how you put your patients' lives and health at risk. On June 6, you hit children from children's homes and residents of social services homes. As early as June, I warned that the booze had been passed and that it had to be repaired immediately. Why it took you two weeks to get back? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for this project? Why are we only doing this today? We could have returned to him at the previous session of the Sejm, maybe it would have resulted in less uncertainty, less nervousness and less question marks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u556	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u557	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the amendments introduced by the Pharmaceutical Law of 26 April 2019 have gone too far. The bill was badly prepared. I wanted to ask you if the Ministry estimated the costs of preparing both that law and that law. Undoubtedly, great lawyers worked on both that law and that law. These are the costs incurred by Polish taxpayers. How much did it cost to prepare this one-page bill of the state budget, i.e. Polish taxpayers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u558	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u559	Thank you. Minister, in the article. 1 in Amendment 3. we have a record that the Minister of Health may by regulation establish a list of active substances in medicinal products. I mean, he can tell. Doesn't the Minister feel that it would be appropriate to state clearly that the Minister sets out such a list or to give up this change? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u560	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u561	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a combination of two of my predecessors' statements. First of all, there was a law that was not perfect, and after three months we had to return to it. My question is: Can the Ministry now give us a guarantee that there will be no problems? My colleague, Mr Skutecki, has already pointed out some of the words contained in this law, which show some impreciseness. What is the source of this fear? Firstly, as Mr Sachajko said, I guess that since the bill was prepared as a matter of urgency, huge money had to be spent on this. Hopefully we'll find out what it was. There is also a worse question - this legal bub was prepared in April, and we repair it in July. If this bill turned out to be a legal issue, then the process of fixing it would be more or less during the election... [[In his new term of office, in his new term of office.]] ...at the turn of September and October or in a new term. This is a term in which no one thinks about fixing the law in Poland. Everyone's thinking about the election. Can we be sure, us and the citizens, that this is a good bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u562	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u563	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Pharmaceutical Law on this issue is very important. You have to fight illegal drug exports. The effects of such actions are very visible. However, medicines are missing not only because of this, but also from others. Neglecting, neglecting the Minister of Health makes pharmacies lack medicine. By the way, I wanted to ask you what happened to the oncology medications. They have been expensive many times. For example, Neulasta, a drug that protects against the effects of chemotherapy, has traveled 100 times. Oncology patients are also in trouble because of a new list of medicines reimbursed. You're welcome to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u564	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u565	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for all your questions. As for this law, as you said, there is full compatibility - all parliamentary clubs supported it. The Act goes in the right direction and, importantly, corrects the errors resulting from the Act adopted in 2015, which has prevented the sale of any medicines to entities other than medicinal products and patients. As a result, since 2015, there has been no possibility of selling drugs to unauthorised parties, and the unauthorised parties were social assistance homes, children's homes or other entities - as you said - e.g. camps. [[Since June 2nd this year.]] The change in this direction, which took place in April this year, caused that for unauthorized persons, those who are not entitled to sell, there is a plan for penalization, i.e. we are fighting such a... [[But let's not yell at midnight. Please.]] ...sales with reverse distribution chain. Therefore, it is such that we have introduced a Penalization, so that we do not sell medicines whose prices are negotiated according to Polish prices, so that in Poland there are cheaper medicines than in other countries, because we still have lower GDP than many other countries. Even our neighbors Germany still have a higher gross domestic product in conversion into a citizen. Therefore, we must protect our citizens so that prices are lower. And that's why there was a change in the law that had been in force before, which didn't exonerate such behavior, which normally allowed the sale of drugs abroad. And for this reason, in April, we introduced a change in the amendment, which increases the ability of pharmacies to sell medicinal products. We've compared drugstores to other entities, to non-pharmacies stores. Therefore, we have greatly expanded the possibility of selling drugs. It turned out that there were more needs than just those satisfied by what's in the store at the gas stations. That is why there is this change that extends the range of possibilities for the sale of OTC-accessible medicinal products, i.e. non-prescription, as you said, except for psychoactive agents. Since the pharmacy is 14,000, there is a very large availability of drugstores, everyone can supply close to their place of business and not, as it has been so far, in the pharmaceutical warehouse. As far as the possibility of creating an additional list which may be presented by the Minister of Health by means of a regulation is concerned, there is a delegation that can be carried out but does not have to, depending on whether it is necessary. We're thinking about it. If there was a problem, for example. with the sale of medicines or the purchase of medicines by the company in wholesale quantities - as a rule, the pharmacy is not a wholesaler, it should not run a wholesale store - if there was a problem with the sale of OTC drugs abroad through the pharmacy, then perhaps such an opportunity would arise, therefore there is this legal delegation. For now, we do not plan to issue any regulation in this regard. And that is actually the main purpose of amending this law. It is positively assessed by all parties. Like we said so far, it was illegal. No one could buy drugs like that at the pharmacy, but it turned out that the law prepared in the previous term was not fully applied and only now some have noticed that they were acting unlawfully because there was no criminalisation, no penalties. This activity was accepted by all parties. Questions about how much this change will cost, that's the question. Not to us. Each law is proceded in a specific mode and many people work on each law. This also goes in the right direction, also extends the possibility of selling drugs. The question was, if anyone had a receipt, they could get a VAT invoice. We talked about it in the Health Committee, that there are adequate financial services, the tax office. Ask your questions there. This is their normal activity, not the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health does not supervise trade in goods, issuing invoices. There are separate IRS. When it comes to medicines, the price of medicines, I can't tell you what these prices are right now. I think Neulasta is used in chemotherapy or in a drug program. These are medicines that are given to patients free of charge. I can answer in writing what exactly the Neulasta situation is like. Yes, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u566	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u567	Minister! In view of the continuing problems, including the activities of organised criminal groups extorting funds from the State for the reimbursement of medicines under the so-called. The reverse supply chain should not be analysed to change the system in such a way that the refund takes place when the final consumer - a patient or a medical provider - acquires the medicine?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u568	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Insolvency Law and certain other laws (Prints Nos 3480 and 3614). I would very much like to ask Mr Kamil Bortniczuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u569	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Insolvency Law and certain other laws in print No 3480. The Sejm at its 82nd meeting on 12 June 2019 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The bill includes e.g.: the possibility of declaring consumer bankruptcy in a simplified manner without the need to appoint a Judge Commissioner, the possibility for debtors to enter into agreements with creditors under the direction of a restructuring adviser or the authorisation of an Assistant Judge to act in civil proceedings. As a general rule, the project aims to simplify the procedure for declaring consumer bankruptcy and the burden on insolvency courts. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights after considering the draft law at its meetings on 14 June and 16 July this year. asks the High Sejm to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u570	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u571	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the bankruptcy law and certain other laws, print No 3480. The solutions proposed in the draft respond to the weaknesses of the current consumer bankruptcy model. The main instrument to better address the problem of over-indebtedness is to introduce the possibility of declaring bankruptcy of a non-business operator in a simplified procedure, i.e. without the appointment of a Judge Commissioner. This solution is intended to significantly remove the burden of handling the simplest cases of consumer bankruptcy from the judicial administration, which is currently effectively blocking the efficiency of bankruptcy and restructuring courts. This solution is directed primarily at cases where, in the course of bankruptcy, there is a lack of significant assets to satisfy creditors through the sale and execution of the distribution plan, or where disputes concerning the amount of debt are not expected to arise. In addition, the project introduces the possibility for debtors to enter into an arrangement with creditors with limited to the minimum participation of the court under the direction of a licensed restructuring adviser who will at the same time ensure that the agreement is implemented. It is assumed that this solution will significantly reduce the increase in new proceedings where it is necessary to declare the debtor bankrupt. Just like in the case of... I'm sorry. Another instrument provided for by the Act to improve the insolvency procedure is the failure of the court to examine the debtor's culpability in order to deepen the insolvency situation, as in the case of insolvency of businesses, the insolvency situation should first be decided, and not the assessment of the debtor's culpability in bringing the debtor to or deepening it. The existing solutions create significant differences in the case law of the various district courts and contribute to the emergence of insolvency tourism within the country. Any inappropriate behaviour of the debtor that is not a crime or act directly directed at the victimisation of creditors will be examined at the stage of establishing the creditor's repayment plan, so when the debtor's behaviour can be claimed by the creditors. Then the decision will be made. The project also clarifies that for a non-business debtor it will be possible to propose the rapid sale of all assets subject to execution in the form of the so-called liquidation. pre-pack, which increases the flexibility available to the debtor for quick exit options from insolvency and new life start. The new regulation is complemented by the adoption of a solution whereby the waiver of liabilities without a repayment plan will be conditional in all cases where the inability to make any repayment under the creditor's repayment plan is due to a personal insolvency situation which will not be permanent. This is intended to prevent excessive default without any repayment to creditors, thereby encouraging debtors to undertake a repayment plan, which in principle is expected to last a maximum of 3 years for the insolvency option and 5 years for the conclusion of an agreement with creditors. In addition, the principle that the declaration of claims should be submitted directly to the restructuring adviser acting as a syndicate at the place of the system in force is introduced. In addition, the following amendments to the laws are proposed: Code of civil procedure - civil proceedings in addition to the referee can also be carried out by the Judge's assistant; Law on Court Costs; Law on the License of Restructuring Advisor, where the obligation for restructuring advisors to create a file is introduced; Law on the Assistance of persons entitled to maintenance - amendment in order to clarify the doubts arising in practice regarding the application of the Act in the field of insolvency proceedings against the maintenance debtor; Restructuring Law, where changes of an adjustment nature have been required; National Debt Register - also adjustment provisions. The draft also provides for a time-limit according to which these proposed provisions on the consequences of initiating proceedings on the person, assets and liabilities of the failing party will also apply to legal events which took place before the entry into force of these provisions. In order to ensure certainty as to the application of the law, the rule of application of those three provisions was adopted in cases in which an application for bankruptcy was filed before the date of entry into force of the law, with the exception of those laid down in Article. 1 and Article 1 Article 2 and Article 2 5. The Law and Justice Club, given that the project was very strongly consulted and found strong support from the social side, supports the proposed solution and will vote for it in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u572	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u573	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club on the government draft law amending bankruptcy law and some other laws, print No 3480. The proposal to amend the Insolvency Law and certain other laws aims at simplifying the insolvency procedure for consumer insolvency. The PO-PSL government introduced new comprehensive solutions for consumer bankruptcy in 2014, and since then there has been a breakthrough in the extension of Poles. The entry into force on 1 January 2015 of the new rules on consumer bankruptcy has significantly changed the legal situation of insolvent natural persons not engaged in business. New, better conditions have been created for declaring consumer bankruptcy, resulting in a rapid increase in the number of applications in this case. In 2015, more than 5600 applications for consumer bankruptcy were received by the court, which represents a nearly twenty-fold increase compared to 2014. When a year later, i.e. Since 1 January 2016, the scope of consumer bankruptcy has been significantly extended to former entrepreneurs during the year since the removal from the relevant register or cessation of business activity, the impact of applications has been avalanche. The consequence of this regulation is a significant burden on the courts and an extension of the time taken to deal with cases. Therefore, the simplification changes are now necessary. The submission proposes a number of further facilitations in the procedure, including inter alia. introducing the possibility of declaring bankruptcy of a non-economic person in a simplified procedure, introducing the possibility for debtors to enter into agreements with creditors with limited participation of the court, giving up the need for the court to examine at the stage of declaring bankruptcy the debtor's culpability in bringing the debtor into debt or deepening that condition, allowing the debtor not to sell quickly all the assets subject to execution in the form of liquidation, filing claims directly to the restructuring adviser, establishing that the waiver of liabilities without a repayment plan will be conditional. During the legislative work of the Emergency Sub-Committee and then in the committee, the participants raised a number of doubts and even reservations which could be the result of the solutions adopted. First of all, the need to distinguish small-scale entrepreneurs from those who operate to a much greater extent and additional criteria were introduced into the project. The Commission has ultimately not decided to introduce a split-up of entrepreneurs, but I believe that this issue needs constant monitoring. For it may turn out that this equalisation of entrepreneurs can lead to the practical use of this situation. The most important discussion was on the article. 491 and detailed provisions on the possibility of determining the reasons for insolvency: due to fairness, purposefulness, gross negligence. There have been indications of serious difficulties in proving the intended actions which may, as a result, be detrimental to creditors. All these doubts require an ongoing assessment of the effects of the solutions adopted and the response to possible irregularities. Today, however, it is premature to assume that legislation will be used in bad faith. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u574	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u575	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm supposed to be on behalf of the club, but I'm gonna start with a personal reflection. I remember how not so many years ago, but still pretty a few years ago, in Poland consumer bankruptcy was not possible at all, and the consumer bankruptcy of someone who conducted a single-person business activity was completely impossible. Those were so-called times. bankruptcy tourism, when Poles went to Great Britain, to various countries to fall there. In the vast majority these people returned to Poland and function. Simplifying the procedure for consumer bankruptcy is, in my opinion, one of the most important laws in this term of office, because it is simply good. Today we have a situation that people... I suspect that your offices are just as regularly visited by people who simply cannot write a motion to court, cannot collect documents, cannot fill out all these formalities in order to fall. Let me give you an example: a lady with five children who has about 150,000. debt. For many people, this is probably not much, and many people would not have taken the lead in consumer bankruptcy at all. For this lady, a single mother raising five children, it's impossible. She'd be paying interest on debt for the rest of her life, not debt, debt wouldn't even touch it. We help her write this proposal, but simplifying the whole procedure is to start a new life, opening up new opportunities for not knowing how many Poles, certainly for thousands of Poles who will either go down to the grey zone or emigrate from Poland, or as unfortunately very often happened, otherwise they will end with this distress of phone calls from debt companies, bailiffs, etc. In a civilized country, as Poland wants to be, for example, in a transaction. credit agreements must be borne by both parties: and the bank, and the borrower. It cannot be that the whole risk is on the borrower's side, and the bank only benefits from interest and then the dramas are born. Thank you very much for this bill, he is very important and I am convinced that the entire Kukiz club will vote for him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u576	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Jan Mazowiecki, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u577	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I have the honour to present a position towards the government draft law amending the bankruptcy law and certain other laws. The aim of the law is to improve the new model of consumer bankruptcy in Poland since the end of 2014. This amendment led to a significant increase in applications for consumer bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings. In 2014, only 32 of these bankruptcies were declared, while in 2018 there were 6552. It is worth noting that the number of such proceedings is increasing systematically, even after the introduction of a new model at the end of 2014. Between 2015 and 2018, the number of cases has increased more than twice and the number of bankruptcies declared has tripled. These data show that the regulations introduced in 2014 filled a significant gap in the Polish legal system. Unfortunately, a significant proportion of Polish adults experience difficulties in the timely regulation of commitments. As at the end of 2018, the number of non-regulated persons was 2.78 million. This applies to sums of at least PLN 200 against one creditor who has been delayed by at least 30 days. The number of debtors and the amount of outstanding liabilities is increasing despite economic prosperity and the increase in social transfers. The consequence of the rules introduced a few years ago is also a much higher burden on courts to declare consumer bankruptcy. Across the country, there are only 30 economic departments of regional courts that serve consumer bankruptcy. This means that in 2018, an average of 424 affected cases fell into one department. The investigation of 240 randomly selected cases from nine centres, carried out by the Institute of Justice, showed, inter alia, that insolvency proceedings had lasted too long. The consumer remains subject to the extension procedure usually for about one year and is then covered by the repayment plan for a further 36 months. The greatest benefit of the proposed solutions is to simplify procedures and reduce the burden on courts of consumer bankruptcy. The adoption in 2014 of the new model of consumer bankruptcy filled a significant gap in the Polish legal system, but at the same time led to an avalanche increase in cases resolved by the economic departments of regional courts in such cases. As a result, the burden on these departments has increased significantly. The solutions proposed in the draft, in particular the possibility of declaring bankruptcy in certain cases in a simplified procedure and the possibility for debtors to enter into agreements with creditors under the direction of licensed restructuring advisers, should lead to a reduction of this problem. The cost of the proposed solutions is likely to reduce the chance of creditors to meet their claims in some cases. The draft law simplifies the procedure for obtaining consumer bankruptcy and increases its availability for new groups of debtors. A significant cost of the proposed solutions may be to reduce the sense of liability for debts incurred resulting from the possibility of obtaining a decision on consumer insolvency of persons who have led to their insolvency or have significantly increased its degree intentionally or because of gross negligence. Such regulation can lead to abuse, intentional debt by some citizens and then to bankruptcy. This regulation can also encourage new groups of people to seek consumer bankruptcy and thus increase the burden on courts of this type. Despite some shortcomings of the revised version, after taking into account all its good points, the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] is in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u578	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u579	Thank you, Marshal. As I said, it is a very necessary and urgent bill. For what reason will it enter into force only six months after the announcement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u580	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u581	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is this: What regulations of the above-mentioned project do they safeguard, remove the risk of situations in which debtors are recklessly indebted, thus awaiting redemption of their obligations in the course of proceedings? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u582	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u583	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two short questions. Firstly, I would like to ask why, despite pointing out during the work of the Sub-Committee on the need to differentiate small-scale entrepreneurs from those who operate to a much greater extent, this solution has not been adopted? I would also like to ask you: Will there be monitoring of reported bankruptcy in terms of intentional action against creditors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u584	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u585	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Simplifying the consumer law procedure and simplifying judicial procedures in the event of consumer bankruptcy is, of course, a very good step in the right direction. Reducing judicial procedures will make it easier for debtors who are in difficulty to deal with the whole procedure. I wanted to ask you what kind of instruments you propose to protect against abuse of this procedure and excessive debt, as well as against bankruptcy tourism. I know of a case where one of you has been very indebted and declared a consumer bankruptcy, and then at the moment, the same situation repeats again. What procedures, which would work both in one direction and in the other, which would limit both debtors and debtors, and those in debt, would you like to establish?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u586	Thank you very much, Member. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u587	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Several questions repeated doubts, concerns about possible abuse. I'd like to dismantle them right away. At the opening stage of insolvency proceedings, the court today does not have any criteria to assess whether the debtor has led himself to debt in a deliberate, careless, reckless manner. Meanwhile, our system eliminates such concerns, this kind of danger, because, first, it is much easier to open insolvency proceedings and then to listen to creditors who have absolutely no voice today in this first phase. The Court of First Instance cannot today seek information from creditors on how insolvency has been declared, on how the entity has become indebted. However, in our system of this type, the debtor's intended action, taken in order to debt himself in order to benefit from such privileges later, will, of course, be eliminated. And this purpose of debt is making it impossible for debtors to benefit from this system. So that we have that guarantee. That's first of all. Secondly, at the stage of the announcement, the court will not examine the issue of recklessness, negligence, and later it will be able to listen to creditors and the position of creditors will have a significant impact on whether or not later this procedure will be terminated. So once - hearing creditors, two - criteria for opening insolvency proceedings, and finally three - this purpose, i.e. those conditions of a subjective nature which will eliminate these debtors of frauds, so to speak. So that we have three kind of guarantees to protect against risks, against the dangers of abuse. Another question was why the law only entered into force after six months. You asked Mr Skutecki. Mr President, this law is such a major reconstruction of the system that it also requires an institutional change. We need to prepare restructuring advisers, we need to prepare judges who will supervise them, we need to prepare the whole system. I mean, if we have 6,000 right now. That kind of thing, and there's $12,000. conclusions and, as we estimate, there may be even about 30,000. cases per year, this is a giant change, so we need to have that time, these six months to expand the whole system of assistance to those who will seek to extend this simplified procedure. These proceedings will be conducted by restructuring advisors, so we need to prepare advisors and judges. This is a completely different system, a complete change in the philosophy of prolonging. This can't happen overnight. The Ministry must also prepare appropriate instruments for handling such proceedings. And that's why it's like this. Mr Masłowski asked a question about the deliberate extension, which I have already explained. Mrs Wielichowska asked about the difference in this respect between small entrepreneurs and the larger ones, with a wider range of activities. Well, first of all, we think that an entrepreneur who is going to register his business has the opportunity to benefit from this system. This is a sufficient guarantee for entrepreneurs. He does not have to expect for a year, as it used to be, at the moment he can register and use this system as a consumer. This is enough for them to guarantee that the introduction of further distinctions and some additional guarantees is not justified. In addition, I would like to draw attention to another protection for entrepreneurs, i.e. protection against homelessness. This is about paying the rent for 24 months, which is also a guarantee, and so far it has only been reserved for consumers. Now it will also be reserved for entrepreneurs. These changes are, ladies and gentlemen. For everyone, there is something that may seem beneficial. On the one hand, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, we have protection against homelessness, the possibility of registering and using the consumer bankruptcy system. In the case of people who are in a difficult health, life situation, it is possible to redeem without paying their debts. Thirdly, in the case of those who have fallen into debt not because of their fault, it is possible to pay back for up to 3 years in the case of those who have fallen into debt perhaps due to recklessness, carelessness - up to 7 years, and finally in the case of young people who, by recklessness, started one, the other company, immediately after college wanted to develop their business and thus fell into debt - there is a possibility of conditional remission of liabilities for the period of 5 years. If you find a job, if you find a source of income that will allow you to get back on your feet, then you will have the opportunity to make these payments, i.e. the conditional remission of payments for a period of 5 years. Another case - for debtors who want to actively pay their debts. If you pay 50% liabilities, then you will have a repayment period of 2 years if you pay 70% commitments - for a period of one year. How can you pay it back? E.g. You're gonna sell the property. If you sell the apartment, the house, then it will allow you to satisfy 70% claims and you will have a repayment period of only one year. Finally, for seniors we also have good news - the amount free of execution will be raised to 1 000. PLN of present approx. 500. So that we also want to encourage seniors to seek consumer bankruptcy. This, perhaps, fell on the part of Mr Skutecki from this bleacher. Namely, so far this institution has only been reserved for people who... She was an exclusive service. In the meantime, we want to spread it. We want to show that consumer bankruptcy is a chance for a new life - a new life without a gray zone, without running abroad, without running away with debts, without ever fearing a bailiff who's not gonna recover those debts. The creditors won't get it back anyway, the bailiff will rip off a man's proverbial shirt, and the man with the debts runs off into the gray zone. These solutions, as you can see, contain a whole range of different offers for people of different ages, with different property status, in different situations related to these debts. That's why the bill is really great. I ask for her support, and I think our people will benefit from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u588	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u589	Minister! Thank you for answering my previous questions about this project. I would also like to ask you to indicate whether an analysis has been carried out in the Ministry concerning the estimated number of persons who, due to their financial situation, are eligible for consumer bankruptcy. If so, please state these estimates.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u590	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering (prints No 3617 and No 3640). I ask Mr Robert Warwas to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u591	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the government draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering. The draft is contained in Seym Printing No 3617 and the committee's report - in Print No 3640. Ladies and gentlemen! Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 On 11 July 2019, 40 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 16 July 2019, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. 15 Members voted in favour of the draft amendment, no one opposed it, 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment to the Law on Public Use and Volunteering aims to create an institution, framework, principles and conditions for an effective, legally empowered dialogue between civil society actors and public authorities in terms of the young generation. The most important proposed amendment concerns the appointment of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation as an advisory body of the President of the Committee on Public Use with powers in matters relating to the young generation. The Council will provide a forum for dialogue between non-governmental organisations and other social actors and public authorities on the subject of the young generation, with particular emphasis on the youth councils of municipalities. A factor that justifies the establishment of the Council is the need to create a lasting and effective form of intergenerational dialogue. The Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation is to deal with the opinion of cases concerning young Poles, as well as cases concerning draft legal acts and government programmes concerning the young generation. The amended act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of its announcement. The Council of the first term of office is to be appointed within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the property of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt the report of the committee contained in Seym printing No 3640. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u592	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u593	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Young people at the gallery! Position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on Public Use Activities and on Voluntary Printing No 3617. Thanking Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for entrusting me with the task of presenting a positive and acceptable position of the club towards the draft Print Act No 3617, I would first like to show the credibility and consistency of our formation during the events - the electoral programme, the submitted declaration, its gradual implementation and verification of the assumptions with reality, and finally the political decision and implementation. The initiative of setting up a representative body of a young generation of Poles with decision-making bodies of the governing environments in Poland is not new. The young people kept making these demands, including by addressing them to law and justice, even through a document called "Vision for the Young Generation," which in 2015. Young people deposited, placed on the hands of law and justice politicians. Similarly to the expectation that young people will find their place on the level of parliamentary life. When we took power, two solutions were immediately created, followed by further solutions to empower young people in civil discourse. From the declaration phase of the 2015 electoral programme, we have moved into the phase of the implementation of the promises. A Parliamentary Group was set up. Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government, which organized four large, nationwide, fully pluralistic congresses of youth councils. In addition, the parliamentary team was created in response to a clear expectation expressed at the celebration of the celebration of the Polish Council of Youth Organisations, an organization which does not love the Law and Justice at all. [[What are you saying?]] In parallel, the Council of the Children and Youth of the Republic of Poland is established as an advisory body of the Minister of Education. In parallel to this, work is being done to establish the National Institute of Freedom and debate in the Council of Public Uses on Civil Society. All of this constitutes a synergistically overlapping element of the foundation for this initiative to set up a Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. It is therefore the fulfilment of our electoral declarations, but also, perhaps more importantly, an invitation addressed to young Poles to want them to really and actually take responsibility for Poland, today and tomorrow through this council. It's yours that belongs to her future. Through this advice we give you the control to shape the youth policy of the state, strategies that will fully allow you to feel and say: Poland is my home, I am responsible for it. Of course there is a subtle difference between the offer of Law and Justice addressed to you young people, and the proposal of our political adversaries, quote: take your grandmother's proof. We do not exclude any of you, even if we have different political views, none of us expect you to die out. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We offer you, therefore, to take responsibility for our common homeland. As chair of the parliamentary team and at the same time as the Speaker of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, I am convinced that, as for four years of our zealous and intensive cooperation in Parliament, in the various bodies in which we have conducted a pluralistic dialogue about your place in the youth policy of the state, you will want to enter this space of open doors to be held responsible for our common homeland. We invite you to this. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this Act in print no 3617 and encourages the other political forces to do the same. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u594	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u595	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft Print Act No 3617. I think that everyone who sits in this room is in favour of the greatest possible participation of young people in public life. If we want to build a high-level civil society, we should teach a young man democracy throughout his life, creating conditions for him to engage in social affairs. An excellent example of young people's participation in the process of lawmaking is the existence of youth councils of municipalities or youth sejmików voivodship. Such bodies show how many young people can do, and often prove that there is a lot to be done over political divisions. Under this law, a new advisory body of the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, is being created, which will be consulted on the legal acts submitted by the government and concerning the youth, the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. The question of many doubts is the process of selecting members of the council from among young people, representatives of youth councils of municipalities, because there is no place in the act for young people operating at the district or voivodship level. In fact, we will be in a situation where the Minister - if he chooses to select members according to the party key, and he can do so, because we are already observing such situations today, such practices, e.g. in the stubborn Council of Children and Youth of the Republic of Poland at the MEN - he will be able to throw away the young man's entire work and ignore the effort put into his previous work only because he will have different political views. In fact, the Act does not mention any criteria to be followed by the Minister by appointing a member of the Council. We do not know what conditions need to be met, what to prove, and who to apply to a member of the council. And that raises our doubts. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a lack of a requirement of non-punishment. We're talking about the government's advisory body. Of course, it is said that if someone commits a crime, it is an argument to remove it from the board, but there is no requirement that if you want to apply, you must be unpunished. There is no guarantee throughout the bill that it is the young people who will actually represent the young generation. There are no age limits for board members. The record is imprecise and speaks about representatives, so it is equally good for such a representative, e.g. from the NGO environment, 70-year-old ZHP mates or other guardians of young people, much older than their own, possibly older than members of the government. I stress, we have great respect for the knowledge and experience of older people and we are always happy to take advantage of their advice, but today we are talking about dialogue with young people and the situation in which young people participating in this dialogue are to represent older people, distorting the meaning of this law. The issues of young people with disabilities are a very important topic. This is definitely not the government's hindrance. Failure to include the representative of the representative of the government for the Disabled persons or representative of the representative of the government for Equal treatment shows that you really do not want dialogue and conversation on really difficult and serious topics. The idea is right, ladies and gentlemen, and very necessary, but as I have pointed out, many things raise our doubts. In the context of the public consultation, 34 amendments were tabled by youth organisations. Up to 25 amendments, the government rejected. Why? If we are creating a Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation without any dialogue, then we are really showing that we are taking young people seriously and subjectively. Ladies and gentlemen! Youth is the future. As politicians, we must show it the beauty of democracy, the importance and class of public debate and openness to socially disadvantaged groups, whether they are discriminated against, among others. because of age, disability or origin. Please, let us define the selection criteria in this bill. Let young people decide for themselves when choosing people who will come from their environment and will represent their demands. Let us guarantee their participation on equal terms and with maximum representation. Let us teach them how important and at the same time responsible for co-decision on matters of the country. Thank you very much to all youth circles for getting involved, sharing, for doing so. I'm so sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the government doesn't treat all young people equally and chooses only those who work for it. I'm very sorry about that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u596	Thank you very much. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki and Mr Krystian Jarubas have made written statements. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u597	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Mr. Agent! I have great concerns about whether the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation will actually respond to the expectations of young people. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, tell me why there hasn't been a broad consultation. This project had the opportunity to become a very good, necessary democratic project, but it is not. What prevented hundreds of active local, regional youth councils from consulting? They're burning to get an opinion on what's going on with them, what's going on with them. I wanted to ask you why those consultations that took place were so short. They were announced just before school holidays, academic holidays, so too many of these youth organizations did not participate in them. Finally, I wanted to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which actually supported this project from youth organisations. Was it just a council of children and young people working at the Ministry of National Education, whose chief in the general election ran from the PiS letter? Please answer my questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u598	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u599	Thank you very much. Of course, dialogue is at all the basis of the functioning of a society such as Poland. That's the way it's supposed to be. I just have a question. Since 2016 there has been a Council of Children and Youth of the Republic of Poland at the Minister of National Education. Now you want to set up a Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. Is that your way of talking? You're calling for advice? Do you really think tea becomes sweeter than mixing? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u600	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u601	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In September 2017, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) The Parliamentary Group on Support for Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government was passed a draft law on the Council of Youth of the Republic of Poland. This organisation is intended to serve as a permanent representation of young people in contacts with public authorities. Why was it not decided before working on this project to review the draft law on the Council of Youth of the Republic of Poland in order to create a permanent and regulated statutory representation of young people, which could ultimately be part of the appointed Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u602	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u603	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Youth is our future. No one has any doubts about that. Once it's shaped, we'll have a society in the future. The Council of Children and Youth at the Ministry of National Education is a very necessary body, but I wanted to ask what criteria will decide to accept it. Why has the government rejected so many young people's comments about this law? If we teach young people how to co-decide about the future and what young people think, we will have responsible citizens in the future. I think that's what we're after. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u604	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u605	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about this not exactly the size of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. In accordance with your proposed provision, this Council shall consist of no less than 20 and no more than 35 members. It's kind of a weird situation where you don't really know how many people this organ is going to count. Of these nine are representatives of ministries and various public institutions. Therefore, I would like to ask about the ratio legis of such a solution. Why is it that the number of members of this council is not fixed, since they are still called upon to be appointed for a certain term of office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u606	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Minister Adam Lipiński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u607	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why are you smiling like that, Member? Oh, not just you. [[Out of sympathy.]] Out of sympathy, good. [[Minister, you know perfectly well.]] We weren't supposed to reveal it. [[What are you thinking?]] [[Because you are, as if you weren't there.]] Good. Well, maybe we should get to those questions. There are a lot of misunderstandings in these questions, a little untrue and a lot of doubts that have some justification. [[So it's true.]] I agree, the consultation was short, because it was two weeks old, but a document from this consultation was issued. Anyone could have spoken. Part of the comments is included in the document. [[Nine.]] The term of the council was shortened from 3 to 2 years, the number of members of the council, the upper number, i.e. to 35 people, etc. So that there were some proposals that were included in the final document. I was talking about these misunderstandings. I'm a little surprised because Mrs Wróblewska probably didn't quite read this document, because there are a few things... [[I've read it five times.]] You read it carefully, all right. Those convicted must not be members of the council. You didn't read that. It is not true that we are merely considering right-wing youth organisations. That's a complete lie, ladies and gentlemen. We absolutely don't care about that. Anyway, there was a rather funny remark at the committee meeting. I concluded that Platform politicians believe that there are 6 million members in the PiS youth school. There are no 6 million members. Lucky for you... [[And who's in favor? Who supports this project, Minister?]] You know, a lot of organizations support that. Even at the committee meeting there were representatives of several organizations. There was one representative of the left-liberal organization, I think. This was due to the fact that Members invited whomever they wanted. I didn't invite anybody, and I've been denouncing this case. The Member was at that meeting. I didn't invite anyone. If I were to invite you, I'd probably go to the Leaders' School, which I value and where the people of PiS have a small share. I do not know if you know this institution, but I think you do. I'll give you that there's not much involved... [[Voice from the hall: Everyone is treated equally in the school.]] Exactly. I'll tell you more, I'm sending my employees to the Leaders' School. [[Very good.]] I don't divide young people into right-wing and left-wing. I have a center view myself. I'm proud of it. At one time, I was even president of the Centre Agreement. I was the founder of the Democratic Centre Association. I'm very happy with the centre views, mostly. [[And you're from Lower Silesia.]] No, I'm not. [[Excellent.]] Here's another thing. Councils at the Minister of Education deal with very different matters than this advice we are now calling. Councils in the Minister of Education only deal with consultations related to the educational process. It's just that. On the other hand, this advice, which we are now calling for, is to be expressed in the case of all laws, all government initiatives that concern young people. Another issue, as regards representatives of the voivodship and district councils. Madame, there is no such thing in the act that there may be youth councils in the voivodship and district councils. They're only at the municipalities. I have a proposition... [[But they're functioning, Minister, they're doing well, they're active. They would be happy to comment on these projects if they had the chance.]] But there is no legal option for such advice. I have a proposition for you. Make a bill like that, and I'll be happy to back it up. We're gonna have things done. You'll be able to press charges like this, they'll be justified. [[Then let's withdraw this project.]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u608	I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński: Thank you. So there are a lot of things here that result from the ignorance of the document or from the misunderstanding, because I don't think it's out of bad will. I don't accuse people of evil will. I am proud that since the Law and Justice of young people have been organized very strongly. These are facts, these are numbers, ladies and gentlemen. You're not gonna double those numbers. They're very well organized, we're very successful here. I hope it develops rapidly. I was talking about the $6 million in piss youth. You weren't in that meeting, and neither were you. I said I was terrified because if we have 6 million people in our youth, we're going to rule this country for 100 years, and I don't think that would be good for democracy. [[Applause]] We'd be in charge too long, wouldn't we? I'm having second thoughts myself. [[Minister, you're telling the public yourself.]] Please accept this document. He's really not controversial. [[But we could pull him out, pass him over for consultation.]] Okay, yeah, sure. Finally, she has such a hickey. As I presented the Act on the National Institute of Freedom, there were nine debates in Parliament, the Seym and the Senate. You didn't leave dry thread on this project, dry thread. The attacks were incredibly brutal and sharp. [[I remember.]] And what happened? The institute operates for 16 months. Are there any doubts? I haven't heard of any. [[But it was created in an atmosphere of scandal, against NGOs, against society.]] There's no doubt about it. We proved that we were right at the time. You could get up and say at least once: I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Very original speech. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u609	The draft law states that the tasks of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation include: Supporting the activities of civil dialogue institutions working for the young generation, including children and young people, with particular emphasis on the youth councils of municipalities. Youth councils are very desirable in municipalities as opinion-makers and applicants. They can also carry out part of the community's tasks in the field of sport or culture. It would be advisable for youth councils to be in every municipality, but they are not everywhere. The situation with them is similar to that with the support units of the local government: in some municipalities they function very well and in others they are not created at all. Please inform whether it has been considered the introduction of mandatory youth councils by bodies constituting municipalities.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u610	The Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation will be set up, which will deal with the opinion of cases concerning young Poles and support actions to increase the civic involvement of young people. The Council is to be a meeting place for NGOs and state institutions with youth representatives. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are dealing with a major situation during the PiS regime. Even when the diagnosis is right, it's worse with execution. It turns out that the council is to be dominated by representatives of young people connected with the ruling party. So I'm asking. : Is this supposed to be a board of dialogue or a branch of the PiS youth? For the other option of approval in the club PSL's gone. It's embarrassing to use young people for party games. PSL does not support such actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u611	I would like to ask whether, in addition to the establishment of such a body as the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, the focus should not be on making elections more democratic and universal, e.g. to youth councils of municipalities or the Children and Youth Sejm, in addition to the support of pro-Citizen youth organisations such as Boy Scouts. My observations show that young people are very keen to participate in various social and civic activities, when they take place on clear and transparent principles and that information about them is effectively disseminated. This huge potential of a generation raised in free Poland is a great opportunity for our country for the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u612	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the law on public benefit activities and voluntary activities. It is very important that as many young people as possible be involved in building civil society. As Councilman of the City of Ozorkov, I repeatedly called on the Mayor to appoint a youth council institution. It is good that the youth city councils will have their representatives on the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. Print Act No 3617 aims to establish a board of dialogue with young people as an advisory and advisory body of the President of the Committee on Public Use. By setting up this council, young people will be able to present their vision of Poland. This is an important step towards civil society and a bow towards young people. Intergenerational communication, opinions, observations about the functioning of public life is very important. I am convinced that the forum of dialogue, which will emerge during debates between NGOs, social institutions and public authorities, will be the first step towards a nationwide debate on Poland's vision for the coming years. An important aspect of the functioning of the board is administrative and office service, which will increase the rank of the institution by placing it in the NAP. I therefore welcome the draft law submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u613	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law amending the consular law (prints 3615 and 3685). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u614	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law amending the consular law, in print no. 3615 and 3685. The amendment of the consular law is primarily of a technical nature. Its aim is to improve the functioning of the existing law of 25 June 2015. consular law. I would like to stress that this is not a political act, although it is introduced during the election or pre-election period. The aim of the amendment is to improve the work of the Polish consular service. The decision to amend the consular law was taken after extensive consultation with the consular community, which clearly defined what was lacking in this law and what should be amended in order to improve work in this area. The scope of the amendment covers four main issues. Firstly, these are issues related to the passing of the consular examination. The possibility of withdrawing from the examination is introduced in the case of candidates for consular officials who have successfully submitted such an examination during the 12 months preceding the date of appointment for office and candidates who have ceased to perform consular functions in the same period in the previous establishment. Secondly, it is the issue of exemption from pre-travel training for particularly experienced consular officials if their knowledge, professional experience and practical skills guarantee the proper exercise of consular functions. Thirdly, it is a question of the procedure for setting up examination committees and the possibility for persons who are members of the foreign service to enter the examination committee, who do not have a diplomatic degree, but whose knowledge, professional experience and skills predispose them to such a role. Finally, fourthly, these are issues related to the amendments to the consular law, which stem from the experience of daily consular practice and eliminate the problems encountered by our consular service. It goes on, among other things. ensure the interaction of administrations, courts and institutions in the country with consuls by ensuring access to information or documents. The catalogue of actions which are understood by the concept of consular assistance shall also be extended. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 18 July 2019 and following the introduction of legislative and editorial amendments, adopted without objection a report requesting the adoption by the High Sejm of the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u615	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u616	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft law amending the consular law, print no. 3615. The proposal aims to amend the consular law of 25 June 2015. In general, it aims to simplify the functioning of the consular service. The most important proposed changes, as the previous speaker said, the rapporteur, are essentially concerned with four areas: consular examination, training, examination commission and consular assistance. The other amendments are of a corrective and more precise nature to the current rules. As regards the area of the consular examination, the proposed regulation provides for a derogation from the need to pass the consular examination in two cases. The first case shall be exempt from the obligation to pass the consular examination when the candidate for consular officer in the last 12 months prior to the date of designation for consular duties has successfully submitted a consular examination for prior designation as consular officer. The second case is a candidate who, within a period of not more than 12 months before the date of appointment as a consular officer, has ceased to perform consular functions, who has been released in connection with the earlier exercise of that function. This solution will be effective in terms of flexible management of staff within the corps of consular officials. Training service is the second area. The person exempt from the obligation to take the consular examination will also be exempted from participation in pre-trial training and will, as a general rule, participate in pre-election training. It is envisaged that the Director-General of the Foreign Service may exempt a candidate from pre-accession training as a consular officer. Area three is the examination board. The new law introduces the possibility of setting up a consular examination panel for persons who are members of a foreign service who do not have a diplomatic degree when their knowledge, professional experience and skills predispose them to such a role. The last area, from such major things, is the area of consular assistance. In order to improve the effectiveness of consular assistance, it is necessary to ensure that the consul cooperates with courts, prosecutors and other public institutions in the country, in particular by ensuring access to information or documents. The lack of legal basis for such actions has led to little effectiveness. The draft law also extends the catalogue of actions which are understood as consular assistance. Polish citizen will be able to apply for financial assistance. Aid may be granted to him where a third person makes the payment of the amount applied for by a Polish citizen, or if the applicant Polish citizen declares that the amount of financial assistance granted to him will be reimbursed within the time limit specified in the decision to be given by the consul by providing him with financial assistance. The Act will enter into force within 2 months of its publication. It is in line with European Union law. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will fully support the proposed law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u617	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Norbert Obricki made his statement in writing. Please, Mr Piotr Apel, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for further questions? I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u618	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for the Members of the applicants. Next to very good solutions concerning e.g. The extension of the possibility for the Consul to assist a Pole - also arrested abroad - you are also making two changes in terms of pre-trial training and exemption from the consular examination. You want to release from these two things people who are highly qualified and well prepared. If these people are so great, why can't they just pass this exam? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u619	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u620	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Members of the applicants. The above proposal provides for the possibility of exempting from the consular examination, inter alia. persons who are not consular officials at present but who have previously served as consular officials and persons who are not consular officials at present but who have previously exercised that function and have ceased to perform consular functions no later than 12 months before the date of appointment as consular officer. My question is: How many people will be able to apply for exemption from the consular examination after the provisions of the above law have entered into force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u621	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u622	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law provides for the possibility of exempting the persons concerned from the examination if they prove to be experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, it's as if we're taking a non-graduate course, provided that a future student shows proper knowledge of the subject, including it entirely or not. Ladies and gentlemen! This opens the door to abuse, because without a document, without having to pass the exam you will be able to take to work in diplomacy simply after a friendship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u623	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u624	I will answer questions that were essentially focused on the subject of alleged dismissal from exams of persons who have no idea about foreign service and the exercise of consular function. In order to obtain partial, I stress, or total release, you need to have first and foremost experience. You can only have experience when you were a consul before, in other words, when you passed the exam before. The consul can't be someone who hasn't passed this exam before. To answer the first question, I would like to say why these people cannot be exempted from the exam at the moment - because that is a requirement. Anyone who was a consul in country A and who is to go to country B after the end of his term of office must take this exam again, whether or not. He's been to five outposts before. He's gotta take that exam on his sixth trip, too. In this case, he gives the same exam six times. What's the point? That is why we are proposing to move away from this requirement. If someone has already demonstrated knowledge, he has gone to this facility and has been sufficiently well assessed that he has been again designated as a consul, what is the point of passing this exam for the second time? This change does not open any access to admission of persons outside the consular service. That's not gonna happen. Like I said in the beginning, in order to have experience as a consul, you just have to be a consul. And if that's the case, we're talking about people who are already in the consular service. I would also stress that it is either a complete or a partial discharge from the exam. It's not always mandatory to release itself completely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u625	Thank you very much. Would the committee rapporteur like to take the floor? [[No, Jozek.]] Please, Mr Józef Leśniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u626	Mrs. Marshal! As a representative of the applicants, I would like to warmly thank the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for their good work and constructive attitude during the examination of the project. Despite differences of opinion in small matters, we have been able to consider the draft law, which, I am convinced of, meets the expectations of the consular corps. The bill will help to improve the consular service of our compatriots spread around the world, and that is the most important thing for us. Thank you very much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u627	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u628	Mr. Marshal! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club regarding the draft law amending the consular law. It is important to appreciate the fact that the Law Orders and includes harmonised regulations covering the functioning of the Polish consular service, in accordance with constitutional requirements and international obligations binding on the Republic of Poland. It clarifies de facto and complements the consular law that has been in force for 3 years. It shall indicate and clarify the areas in which consuls carry out consular activities, establish an open catalogue of matters which may be dealt with by consuls and consular officers authorised by them. The consular law also sets out the basic principles on which a Polish citizen can apply for financial assistance - it introduces an extension of the catalogue of actions which are understood as "consular assistance." This is particularly important in two cases: arrests, arrests or detentions, as well as other persons in need of consular assistance, e.g. Polish tourists. Within the framework of consular assistance, the consul will be able to transfer a fixed amount to a Polish citizen in a situation requiring consular assistance if a third party pays that amount to secure his basic needs, to the bank account of the consular office, diplomatic representation or to the office serving the minister responsible for foreign affairs. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition will vote in favour of the bill submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u629	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime, signed in Washington on 12 June 2019 (prints No 3657 and 3684). I ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u630	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the time is late, but I would like to present to the High Sejm a report on the work of two joint committees: the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime, which was signed in Washington on 12 June 2019 and Parliamentary Printing No 3657. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be very brief. It is a short act, because it consists essentially of two articles which allow the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify this agreement, an agreement which aims to achieve good cooperation in the field of combating and preventing crime. It's about high-caliber crimes. Speech is here, among others. about the creation and functioning of DNA databases. So it's about crimes that are serious. As I said, the agreement was signed on 12 June 2019. The contract itself consists of 23 articles. What is important, at the committee meeting, it was essentially not controversial, it was adopted unanimously. So I think, in view of this late hour, let it be such a good sign today at the conclusion of our deliberations that we should work this way. Of course, your marshal, the joint committees are asking for this law to be adopted without amendment. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u631	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u632	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with regard to Draft Print Act No 3657 on ratification with prior agreement expressed in the Act of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime, signed in Washington on 12 June 2019. The essential effect of the entry into force of the Agreement will be to strengthen security and public order protection in the field of preventing and combating crime. The Agreement establishes a legal framework for cooperation between the competent authorities of both Contracting Parties by exchanging information concerning inter alia. the relevant circumstances relating to the offence and the techniques and methods of action of criminal organisations. Through mutual access to databases containing fingerprint data, the agreement will be a tool for rapid and effective cooperation. The actions taken will aim to reduce the number of serious crimes, among others. against life and health, human trafficking and smuggling of migrants and illicit trafficking and trafficking of narcotic drugs, precursors and psychotropic substances. As regards the possible economic impact of the entry into force of this Agreement, it is currently difficult to foresee, but given that this instrument should contribute to the reduction of crime, it should be assumed that these effects will be positive, in particular because the Contracting Parties undertake to prevent and combat crimes against economic turnover: fraud, corruption, the laundering of proceeds from crime. The scope of the agreement is also covered by cooperation aimed at combating counterfeiting and counterfeiting, counterfeiting and trafficking of goods, counterfeiting and the marketing of documents. In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice we declare our support for this initiative, we will vote in favour of it, as we ask other clubs and parliamentary circles as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u633	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u634	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The fact that this case is not as simple and obvious as it seems is best demonstrated by the fact that this agreement has been negotiated since 2008. During this time, the parties exchanged contract projects several times. The subject matter of this agreement, i.e. issues related to the transfer of data, regardless of what the purpose is, because in this case personal data concerns security issues, the transfer of data is always something that requires a certain degree of caution, these are things that often cause serious controversy, so this agreement is certainly important and certainly difficult. On the other hand, I would like to say that the specific nature of the ratification procedure in which we are here is that it is the government that negotiates, and it is the government that is responsible for ensuring in an appropriate manner the conditions for the storage of these personal data, while Parliament is in fact merely agreeing to this agreement. I remind you of this because it seems that this agreement is necessary to move on to the next stage of negotiations related to the introduction of visa-free movement, and I would like to be 100% sure that these personal data of Polish citizens will be very well secured and that it is not so that this finalization happened suddenly because the government simply wants to move on to this next step. Today we give you such a credit, because my club will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. We do not like the fact that ratification of this agreement was actually put on the agenda of the Sejm, and so yesterday. We think it would be better if we had more time to reflect on this agreement and discuss all the implications with our experts. We didn't have that kind of time. Today we vote, we support this draft ratification law, and I would like to state clearly that the government was responsible for negotiating this agreement, and we hope that this agreement is simply well negotiated, that you did not take shortcuts at this last stage of the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u635	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u636	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, as my previous speakers said earlier, we do not raise objections at this stage of the work for this ratification and we will vote in favour. We also don't like the lightly such an approach a little ad hoc, you can say, quickly, because often in such contracts the devil may be in the details. But from the perspective of our international cooperation, we think that we should ratify this agreement as much as possible. We have some reservations, i.e. questions, on the basis of: whether the publicly available networks in our country, through which fingerprint data can be transmitted, have had the possibility to apply the appropriate encryption and authorisation procedures before signing this agreement, or whether the conclusion of this agreement requires the creation of these procedures from scratch, but we believe that the government has taken care of this, we will probably get an answer in a moment. But as I said before, Kukiz15 does not object to this ratification at this time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u637	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u638	Thank you, Marshal. It is clear that we will sign this agreement, we must ratify it. This agreement refers to contact points, points or contact points on both sides for the transmission, transmission of data. What institution, what will be on the Polish side of this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u639	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u640	Yes, of course, your marshal, High Izbo, to speed things up: The agreement contains the general characteristics of the mechanism used to ensure the security of the data transmitted. What detailed mechanisms will the Polish website use to ensure the protection of the security, confidentiality and integrity of the data transmitted, and which authority, ladies and gentlemen, in our country is currently best suited to the protection of the data transmitted under the above agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u641	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u642	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Using the presence of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, I wanted to ask: What other agreements will Poland have to conclude with the United States to abolish the visa requirement? Does the way of pursuing this visa-free movement provide for any further action necessary for the signing of contracts, possibly the activity of the Polish Parliament and ratification of these agreements, or will there be any agreements and agreements concluded only at government level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u643	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Sylvester Tułayev, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u644	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this discussion, for this debate. In particular, I would like to thank you for the discussion at the meeting of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would also like to thank you for voting at these committees, where all parliamentarians voted in favour of this law. To answer the questions that were raised during this discussion, I would like to say that the point of contact is the Police. Here it is clearly defined, clearly defined. The contractual provisions also clarify the scope of the protection of personal data, how these personal data are to be processed, how they are made available, etc. First of all, I pay attention to the article. 6 contracts which indicate that the transfer of further personal data and other information which is available for fingerprint data is subject to the internal law of the requested party. As far as personal data protection matters are concerned, there is also Article. Ten deals. I'll quote two sentences. In the mouth. 1 We have information that the parties recognise that the processing of personal data which they receive through mutual exchange is extremely important to ensure confidentiality in the implementation of this Agreement. And an important mouth. 2: The Parties undertake to process personal data in a fair and consistent manner in accordance with their internal law. If we're talking about our country, we have these internal rules, they apply. We have a law on the protection of personal data processed in connection with the prevention and fight against crime. It is the Law of 14 December 2018 and it is as effective as possible in this respect. And one more suggestion, one more remark. This was also highlighted by the Members in the committee's meeting, and here also this thread was moving. It's about art. 11, which clearly confirms that the parties do not provide data obtained under this Agreement to any third country, international organisation and private entities without the consent of the data exporter and without adequate safeguards. So that matters relating to the protection of personal data are secured in this agreement, which, as rightly put forward at the outset by your rapporteur, was drawn up in Washington on 12 June 2019. One more job. The conclusion of an agreement on the prevention and fight against serious crime, I would like to make it clear, is one of the conditions necessary for Poland's integration into the American visa-free movement programme. In this context, the agreement is close to the standard of such agreements concluded by the United States with other countries. We have a number of countries that have already signed a very similar agreement and have already ratified it. We are talking about the Federal Republic of Germany, we are talking about the Italian Republic, we are talking about Spain, we are talking about Portugal. Thank you for the discussion and I ask the High House to adopt this law. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u645	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u646	Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to make sure that you also believe that the signed agreement contains all necessary provisions to ensure the protection of sensitive State security information. In my view, such an agreement with the United States is another step towards strengthening security and deepening cooperation, while respecting sovereignty with due respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u647	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 min 35 to hour 0 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the State Commission on the investigation of cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs, against a minor under the age of 15 (print No 3663). I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Łukasz Schreiber, to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u648	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The priority of the policy of the Government of Law and Justice is to protect and support Polish citizens, including those, and perhaps it should be said: above all, those who need this support in particular. Yesterday in this House, from this point on, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki presented a bill on support for people with disabilities. Today I took part in presenting to you another important solution, which we are introducing for the youngest Polish citizens. This is a solution introduced for children who have been harmed by pedophiles. I don't have any impressive gadgets with me, I didn't come with quotes that would hit anyone in this House, but I do have something more important - a draft law on the State Commission on explaining cases of actions against sexual freedom and morality, against a minor under the age of 15. We are talking about a minor under the age of 15, but in practice these acts are committed by criminals in relation to a 10-year-old girl and an 11-year-old boy. High Izbo! The project presented was developed as a response from the State to the specific situation of those who, as a minor, were victimized by paedophile crimes. The response from the State is the establishment, establishment of a state commission to explain cases of action against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. High Izbo! Many of these acts have been committed in the past, many of the perpetrators have not responded. Today, it is often the case that those who have committed a crime are ashamed of themselves. The point is to reverse this situation, to be ashamed and punished by those who commit these disgusting, appalling crimes. The Commission will examine all such cases. We will not limit ourselves to one professional or social group, as some would like, because there is no profession free from shameful cases of pedophilia. They could be exchanged for a long time, we all know them. All sacrifices deserve clarification and justice, because their harm is the same. Every cover-up case, every carpeted case, whether it happened two weeks ago, two years ago or 20 years ago, should have seen the light of day, or at least criminals should have stopped being anonymous. Mechanisms of action of the competent authorities will therefore also be put in place to explain these abuses. They will be checked. Some of these persons cannot be referred to the Article. 240 Criminal Code Act, Criminal Code Act, which punishes for such acts, also for covering up such cases, silence about them. The committee will be composed of 7 members. We wanted the elected members to enjoy as much social confidence as possible. That is why the Sejm and the Senate are pointing out their representatives, but they will have to get you representatives of 3/5 votes in the High House. The remaining three representatives, i.e. up to 3 submitted by the Sejm, 1 submitted by the Senate will be the representatives submitted by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister of the Republic and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. You will also be able to appoint field agents. Substantive support of the Committee on the Functioning of the European Union explanations of these cases will in turn be provided by the state office. As I said before, there will be no agreement, and there is no government for us as applicants, so that the statute of limitations on criminality makes the case go away. Well, High Izbo, even if that is the case, even in cases where a final order is made to refuse to initiate or terminate proceedings because of the statute of limitations of criminality, the prosecutor, and in court proceedings the competent court will refer the matter to the committee together with the files. The main tool that the committee will have will, of course, be at the final stage of the provision for the registration of persons for whom the State Commission for the investigation of such cases will issue them. It shall issue a decision on entry in the register or terminate the proceedings without order. But all of this does not mean that we are to create that there may be a hood court or a folk tribunal that will follow unclear criteria. On the contrary, the point is that these criteria should be as clear as possible, the point being that there should be an opportunity, and that there should be a possibility in the project, an appeal, the point being that there should be no one left. harmed also in relation to such activities of the state commission. It's all part of the project. Of course, I serve as an answer if there are specific questions. But this committee will have one more task, an extremely important task. It is an educational and preventive activity to make the public aware of what is most painful today, to carry out activities such as drawing up an annual report on investigations, but also information campaigns aimed at Poles. It is also the work of the committee within the framework of the legislative process which is taking place in the High House, and it is finally cooperation with organisations. High Izbo! The establishment of this committee is another step after the creation of a register of paedophiles and the tightening of penalties in the Penal Code, which the camp of the United Right took in the fight against all those degenerates who committed these acts on the youngest citizens of the Polish state. I therefore have an appeal to all ladies and gentlemen of the House, in particular, and not particularly to one side or the other, but to everyone, regardless of the club they sit in, to support this bill. Please don't leave the room like we did when we introduced more punishment into the Penal Code. I'm asking you to... [[And where's the Penal Code?]] ...the state didn't run away from responsibility, didn't hold back from... [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you.]] ...the votes, they did not behave like Pontius Pilate, as they did when the so-called. Pedophile registry. Today everyone, High Izbo, we have a chance, we have an opportunity to do something good, something that maybe is harder than social networking, television or happening. I hope this case can connect us all. We have a chance to show Poles that Parliament can work beyond divisions. All other activities are really secondary activities to the one in this Chamber in this House. High Izbo! Escapism is not the solution to the problem. The welfare of children requires the High House to show that it is working together in this matter. Cum tacent, clamant, these words of Cicero can also be used today. When they're silent, they're calling. Silently, they cry out to all of us, High Izbo, those to whom these disgusting crimes have been committed, the perpetrators of which remain anonymous. I would ask that the High House direct the project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u649	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. [[And on behalf of the law and justice club?]] You weren't an MP? Please, sir, but you should have come to the office, sir. The Member is a representative of the Law and Justice, but you must do this and report to the Registry always before you speak, because I do not know if anyone from the club is coming forward. [[I think it's the club that's calling it in.]] But he obviously forgot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u650	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the governmental draft law on the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs against a minor under the age of 15, print No 3663. The bill is an expression of the state's response to the enormous social expectation of the lack of comprehensive solutions in the fight against sexual crime, in particular in relation to minors, the lack of adequate explanation of such crimes, the lack of resources to enable victims to assert their rights, who are only adults at the age of 30, have the courage to talk about the harm suffered in childhood, the lack of possibility to prosecute offenders due to the expiry of the limitation period, the need to surround victims of paedophile crimes with particular care, the need to make social justice a reality, and the pursuit of the well-being of those who have suffered paedophile offences as children. The aim is to ensure an effective and adequate response of state authorities, NGOs, educational, educational, caring, cultural and cultural bodies, including recreation and treatment, as well as professional authorities, churches and various associations. The very idea of setting up a state commission shows that it is to deal with cases of this kind of hideous crime in all environments, not limited to one. To limit ourselves to one environment would mean wanting to fight this environment, some intention. This is about fighting pedophilia and pedophile crimes. Recently, we have all been struck by information from Italy about the breakdown of the paedophile mob, involving various people, officials who worked in adoption centres, lawyers. This shows that the problem affects really very wide environments. Hence the need to set up a committee, of which the Minister spoke. He also talked about how this committee would be called, who it would be made up of. I think this project deserves the support of the High House. On behalf of my club, Law and Justice, I request that the project be directed to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u651	Thank you, sir. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u652	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's an hour. 1 a.m., an empty seym and a debate about a project that should actually be implemented a long time ago. First of all, there is a missing government bench of the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, a politician who is from your formation who has had all the tools for successfully fighting these kinds of crimes for the past three years. This bill is to put up a white flag and show that this sheriff can't fight those who hurt our children effectively. Where are the proceedings concerning 382 cases that were reported and presented by the Polish Episcopate in March this year? Where are the interrogations? Where's the paperwork? Today, you are calling for this bill to be drawn up together. When, a month ago, as an opposition, we asked you to approach the subject of criminal limitation fairly, noting that what you are doing in this respect is breaking the rules of the Sejm, breaking the fundamental principles and may cause that the Penal Code will not be amended for many years, you laughed in our faces, you assured us of the excellence of this project. I wouldn't talk about it if I wasn't provoked by you, Minister. We pulled the cards because we didn't want to violate the Sejm's rules. And who was right about that argument? As you can see, the opposition. Your president didn't sign this bill, he didn't sign this amendment. Your inability and treatment of the Sejm like the private farm of your group has led to the fact that, until then, laws have not entered into force that punish severe pedophile criminals, which allow these crimes not to be statute-barred. And now you are presenting a bill that I am grateful for because you have listened to the opposition's voice and the appeal for a committee that will explain these cases. Unfortunately, there are many details that make this project not perfect. We will talk about them in detail at the committee meeting and I promise that we will make such amendments so that this bill can actually fight this shameful phenomenon. But I would ask for one thing. In the name of respect for the victims, in the name of the basic principles of decency, you will blow your head off and apologize for what the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, has done in this House. He promised to fight paedophilia and led to the fact that the rules adopted here will not come into force for long, because so your marshal and your minister forcefully pushed for these changes. Today we ask the elementary question: Does this government want to fight this phenomenon effectively, or is it just for appearances that you want to introduce a law at the last session of the Sejm that will not be implemented? I believe that the fight against pedophilia will unite all political forces in this House. I believe that together we are able to create a good bill and a good bill. I've got a hot roll call. Do not treat this matter in terms of the fact that it is a matter of any political formation. Do not insist on solutions that are wrong and ineffective in many places. And I'm asking you not to repeat the same mistake in the work of the legislative committee to which it is to go. As in the Penal Code, where without any reflection, without any amendment, you went through a sejm struggle, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which results in the fact that to this day you have not fulfilled your key promise to eliminate the statute of limitations and to effectively increase the punishment for paedophiles. We'll be working on this project on the committee. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Coalition Club, I declare a number of amendments to this bill. Thank you for submitting it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u653	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u654	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Spokesman! During this term of office, Kukiz15 has already repeatedly supported projects aimed at preventing behavior and sanctioning behaviour called pedophilia. I have said many times from this speaker: stop the criminals who raise their hand against the children. Stop child abuse, including sexual abuse. And that's changing, ladies and gentlemen. Both Kukiz15 and I personally, as president of the Parliamentary Group, will support the best interests of the child as the highest objective, and we will support any action that will, to a greater or lesser extent, provide better protection for children, including children who are victims of paedophiles. One such initiative is the establishment of a State Commission for the explanation of cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs, against a minor under the age of 15. We have examined the procedures envisaged in the draft for proceedings before the committee and I must say that they do not raise any major objections. In particular, unlimited access to committees is extremely important. In short, every citizen will be able to initiate proceedings before the committee at any time and in any way, without subjective restrictions, because it will be possible not only for the victim or a member of his family, but also for anyone who has knowledge. For example, Mr.Sekielski, who, due to a loud film directed, learned about paedophile behavior, will be able to initiate proceedings before the committee, but such an initiator will also be able to be any of the millions of Poles who have watched this film. Personally, I would not reject the possibility of investigating anonymous reports, as they would also be a source of knowledge about crimes. I understand that such applications will at least be sent to the prosecutor's office, although this is not regulated by the matter in the project. It is also reasonable to require the commission to report to the prosecutor's office information which would indicate the possibility of committing a crime. I know and we are about to hear the cry of the defenders of freedom and human rights, but I would argue that there should be a right to include in the register persons for whom the state committee has determined the execution of criminal offences, even in cases where the act is already statute-barred. This is an exceptional situation where a law-protection function should have primacy over a guarantee function, because all of this serves to protect the overriding good of the child. On the other hand, we have some doubts and I ask the applicants to clarify whether the powers of the committee to monitor prosecutorial proceedings are not too far-reaching and do not pose a threat to the secrecy of the investigation. One last remark. There is no impact assessment in the explanatory memorandum. I would ask you to present them, although I and the Kukiz club15 believe that in this area there is no way to talk about any savings. Any action to increase child safety is worth its price. High Izbo! Kukiz Club15 repeats: stop pedophilia, stop child abuse, stop indulgence for perpetrators regardless of their position in the social hierarchy. Therefore, Kukiz15 will support the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u655	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. There isn't. Please, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Circle of Members Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u656	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said this project was your reaction to the problem. No, this project you presented today is actually your reaction to the screening of the Sekielski Brothers' film. First you wanted to change the Penal Code very quickly, and now you want to introduce a pedophilia committee very quickly. The whole project is only about showing Polish society, Poles and Poles that you are doing something about it. The reality is completely different. In fact, you want to drown the problem of ecclesiastical pedophilia in the sea of abuse that they commit, as your TV tells you, and the bricklayers, and the car mechanics. Yes, paedophiles are in all professions and in all environments, but only one environment, the Catholic Church, protects paedophiles in cassocks, moving them from parish to parish, sending them on missions. Only in this institution do bishops hide priests who rape children and behave scandalously towards them. There is no such pathology in any other environment. What you're doing is actually using the nasty manipulation that the Catholic Church has been using for many, many years, saying that the problem of pedophilia is about society as a whole. This project you are presenting - I have asked many lawyers today who are dealing with this subject - is simply a sham, smoke screen and sham action taken only to cover up a real, real problem, that is, the systemic hiding of the perpetrators by the hierarchs. This is not only about talking all the time about the fact that priests who rape children are being transferred from the parish to the parish, but also about the fact that actions, ecclesiastical norms, which involve hiding these cases, are accepted by the prosecution. For example, Archbishop Gądecki refused to issue the prosecution's file. The prosecution was completely helpless against the Archbishop's will. There's another argument. The Church and you, as allies of the Church, know very well that at the moment when a commission would have been formed from a real event, as it was in other countries, exactly what would have happened in these other countries, Ireland, Pennsylvania or Australia: this would have shaken the faithful. That's what you're really afraid of. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You can't write a good bill in a few weeks. Such environmental laws have been in work with professionals from many other countries for weeks. The university professors and experts on the subject leaned over these projects. That's why this bill you're presenting, as I said before, as experts and lawyers say, is one big lie. I will not be able to refer to the specific, detailed provisions of this law, but I will tell you one thing about what is not in it. There is no law in this law, e.g. there is no mention of compensation regulations. This isn't about putting more perps in the pedophile registry. The point is to put paedophiles in jail, and give the victims of paedophiles compensation for taking their dignity away. You're talking about education. That sounds beautiful, of course, but really, if the government wants this education to be, then it should put in place a fair sexual education. You're talking about the committee. It cannot be that it is so politicized. Of course, you put a great deal of emphasis on not having any politicians on this committee, but according to what you're describing, it could be there, for example. A priest or some cleric of another faith, which I think is just reprehensible. In conclusion, because there's very little time... [[Oh, my God.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, the bill you're presenting is just a smoke screen, showing that you want to do something. This committee is - such a comparison comes to mind - like a saw without a blade: it will make a lot of noise, but the trees will not cut. That's why you don't convince me, you don't convince the environments and experts who have been on this case for years. You haven't had any consultations, you haven't consulted with people who have been dealing with this problem for many, many years. You're actually taking advantage of the victims. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pedophile priests to their own political, particular interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u657	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. One minute to ask a question. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u658	Thank you, Marshal. The Commission, which is to deal with the subject of child sexual violence in a very broad way, is desperately needed as soon as possible. I am very pleased that Mr Pawlak, Minister of Children's Rights, is in the Chamber because no one knows as much about the drama that is happening as the Minister. The Minister will certainly confirm my words, confirm that very often, extremely often, allegations of sexual violence against children are a weapon in the conflict of parents, e.g. Divorce. Here I have a question specifically for the applicants. Why will the members of this committee not be obliged to show that they have any experience at work and with children and with the victims of violence, including sexual violence? Why won't these be people who are able to quickly, intuitively learn the subject? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u659	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u660	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, my question is as follows. Today, you quoted from this speaker that the members of the committee would be elected by a majority of 3/5 votes. Why will the chairman of the committee not be elected on the same terms as those members, by a majority of 3/5 votes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u661	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u662	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Injured young people need our attention and exceptional support, which is why I am surprised that the debate on such an important project on the establishment of a State Pedophilia Committee is being held at night. I would like to express my satisfaction that you have listened to our demands for a state commission to deal with the cases of these cruel, disgusting crimes, but I would like to ask you where are the proceedings on 386 cases of pedophilia in the Church. I understand that proceding this bill that we're dealing with is the answer to the fact that the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, Mr. Ziobro, so badly prepared an increase in paedophile penalties that nothing came out of it and it didn't come into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u663	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Circle of Members Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u664	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few questions. You are referring in the explanatory memorandum to the committees that arose in Ireland, Pennsylvania or Australia, which dealt with the strict answer to the question of how many crimes of pedophilia are among priests. You refer to these committees, and you don't do what they did. Another question. Why are there seven representatives here? Third question. Why should the committee work for seven years? In fact, Minister, I only agree with you on one thing. I agree with the statement that came from the speaker here, as you justified this project. You said pedophiles were degenerates. Yeah, they're degenerates. And yes, I agree that we cannot keep silent, but we cannot keep silent primarily about the systematic concealment by the Catholic Church of priests who rape children. These cases are not only 380, there are many, many more.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u665	Thank you very much. The last will be presented by Mr Piotr Kalet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u666	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I have questions that have been raised as if by previous speakers. One of the Members here said that the sheriff, the current Minister of Justice, is doing nothing about it. Minister, I have a question for you about what the previous impostor of the Minister of Justice or the pseudo-minister of Justice, who was the predecessor of Minister Ziobra, did. Did he do anything about it? It was also stated here that the Catholic Church is hiding paedophiles. The question is whether there are other well-known social, professional groups for which it would be so strongly stressed - one of the Members here mentioned paedophile mafias - which are also hiding paedophiles in some way. Have we heard anything about this yet? There was also a statement here that this law was written on the knee, is a pseudo-law. Is there, for example, a Member or Members who are shouting about such a situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] have they introduced or presented any logical, reasonable solutions regarding the functioning or the formation of such a law, such a committee? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u667	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Łukasz Schreiber, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u668	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking the High House for this discussion, thanking you for your presence despite this time, finally thanking the representatives of the three largest parliamentary clubs not in writing, but here from the speaker and for the fact that, as I understand, all three major clubs, namely Law and Justice, the Civic Platform and Kukiz15, want to continue their work on the establishment of a state committee. High Izbo! To answer the questions, the doubts that have been raised here, I will begin in the order of speaking by Mr Boris Budka. Of course, if I were being mean, I could ask you how the truth committee announced by this club works. If I were malicious, I could tell you how the work on such projects was carried out in the previous term of the Sejm, and quote such stories, but I don't think that makes sense. The point must be to speak once again and in a determined way about at least three actions of our government and of the parliamentary majority, but the government is emanating it. As far as action against paedophiles is concerned, first of all it is a paedophile register, and secondly it is an amendment to Article. 240 The Penal Code, which for concealing the truth provides for the possibility of more severe punishment and responsibilities, and thirdly, this is precisely what your amendments to the Penal Code refer to here, the tightening of penalties. I am pleased that today everyone is only pointing out the regulatory problems that may be related to it - whether this is true, will examine the Constitutional Tribunal - and not just the legitimacy. This is an undoubted step forward in our discussion. High Izbo! There's one more thing that's important. It's okay for her to resonate. In fact, we are starting the legislative process today and it is Parliament that this House is here to discuss this project. If someone has better ideas, they want to offer better solutions, they need to be reported. What would be the point of Parliament's functioning, what would be the point of discussion at this point if Parliament could not amend the law? What was the point? Then the government should only bring projects, and we should vote on them right away. Yeah, if anyone's having second thoughts... Although unfortunately, the representative of the Platform Club said a lot that he had doubts, but he did not mention any particular one, so I find it difficult to relate to them. [[The corrigendum, I've been replaced.]] Mrs Barbara Chrobak, a representative of the Kukiz club15, expressed concern, above all, about monitoring. I would like to point out that information on the progress of the investigation to be given is information which, of course, can be made public and which sometimes could also be provided by the prosecutor of the prosecution. The point is to be able to get the information up-to-date, of course, without breaking the mystery of the investigation. Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus has touched on one important, perhaps important matter, stating that this is not a committee to deal only with pedophilia in the church. In fact, my dear fellow Member, it is possible to get the impression - sometimes it is such a sad impression - that there is a part of the person who does not want to really fight pedophilia, but would like to fight one social group using pedophilia, in this case, I understand, with the Catholic Church. [[Man...]] This is indeed a fundamental contradiction with the government's view of the matter. You can't differentiate crimes to achieve any goals or evidence, to burden only certain groups, I don't know, priests or artists, or any other group we'd think of committing them to. Each of these crimes is equally disgusting, and each of them hurts just as much the people they touched. There are also doubts about who will be on the committee. The point is that I understand that certain social groups should be excluded from applying for a seat on this committee. Well, my dear fellow Member, that would indeed be an absolutely unconstitutional solution. It is clearly stated who it may be: a lawyer, a doctor or a psychologist, and it is to be those who have an experience. As regards the question of the highly respected Member of Bydgoszcz, Mr Skutecki, that they do not have the authority to know how to work with children. But there are recommendations that must be made by the relevant actors, whether it be a group of Members or, I don't know, the General Bar Council, whether it will be another body to prepare these recommendations and propose candidates. Mr Masłowski is concerned that I understand that the chairman of the committee will not be elected by qualified majority. High Izbo, this is also because members will already be elected by this qualified majority, so there must be some pluralism here, including the High House. But of course, any such subject is to be discussed. Like I said, we're at the beginning of our work in Parliament. She was worried that the project was being processed at night. Neither I nor any of us in this room, as I understand it, have had any effect on the fact that the debate on the previous points had become so much longer. Recently in Brussels, Mr Tusk made various arrangements at night. I think that none of us should be disturbed at this hour at the beginning of our legislative work. As far as those statements by Mrs Toruń are concerned about the fact that committees in Australia, Ireland or Pennsylvania - this is not a country, but let us leave it on the side - were only meant to consider cases of pedophilia in the church, that is not true. They were designed to investigate all public institutions that supervise minors. It is all public institutions, including of course Catholic and Protestant churches. But there's a big difference. So that a perversion would indeed be if we chose only one professional group or social group and around it wanted to create such a committee. Finally, there have been several statements in this room about the concealment of cases of pedophilia by one or another. That is why this amendment is made in Article. 240 The Penal Code, which criminalizes such cases, even providing for a sentence of absolute imprisonment up to the age of 3. I will remind you that this change took place at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland in this term of office of the Sejm, so there is no need and reason to believe that these matters cannot be clarified. High Izbo! To conclude, I would encourage us, in the spirit of agreement, as well as respect and concern for the victims of these terrible crimes, as well as the concern for the best of Parliament's name, to proceed without such political outbursts, with the utmost commitment to a really best project. You are all welcome and we encourage you to engage in this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u669	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u670	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Well, that's the first question. 2010, Minister, the real tightening of penalties, the introduction of new types of crimes, among others. grooming, crimes involving promoting certain content - these were real actions. Moreover, in the field of operational powers of police officers, we have introduced the possibility of provocation, and this is something that you should know. The second thing, really, my dear Minister, if we take this House seriously, this kind of joke of yours. whether the trip to President Tusk is not serious. This is too serious a project to laugh and make fun of in this House. I'm trying to take you seriously, but, Minister, this is the problem of pedophilia and pedophilia victims, not the place for stupid jokes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by a representative of the government. A little serious. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u671	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Circle of Members Now! [[Donald's already...?]] [[Voice from the hall: How is the tray in the church?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u672	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You're wrong, the Church is the only institution that systematically hides paedophile priests. It is the only institution that transfers paedophiles priests from the parish to the parish, but also sends them on various missions. The Church is the only institution that draws victims in a special way and uses the same mechanism in Poland, Ireland, Australia, Germany and any other country in which committees were established. All these committees you are referring to did not arise from the need to study pedophilia among children because the public insisted on addressing this problem. The fact that at some point the investigation of pedophilia cases was considered more widely was the next step. But the first element concerning the formation of these committees was the response to cases of pedophilia in the church, among priests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You need to know that, and you need to remember that. You can't forget that. [[Applause]] [[Come and find out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u673	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr. Nicholas Pawlak's Child Rights Officer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u674	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few words. In order to protect the honor, rights and dignity of the victims, the preamble to the Act on the Establishment of a Committee on Justice ends with these words. study pedophilia and these are very important words. The most important thing is the purpose of this bill. What's the point? Restoring the next stage of justice. I believe that there should be no one in this Chamber who questions the legitimacy of this committee, because then also the pain and suffering of the victims, the injured children, maybe adults now, are being questioned. These victims, these people, they deserve justice. The appointment of a committee is one of the most important matters that this Sejm still has to do in this term of office. But this committee must be well-designed. The law must be good. What good law is that? Effective. How effective is that? Precisely and unambiguously, so as not to give any additional interpretations so that there are no nuances on the basis of which someone might question a decision, because it would be in the best interests of the victims. That is why I believe that you parliamentarians need to examine these rules very carefully. I'm looking around the room, there are parliamentarians, there's a government, but not necessarily all law enforcement. There are no guardians of rights who could give an opinion on this, it is about the constitutional compatibility, so that these opinions are not post-factum, when the law is passed, it will work. This right must be reviewed now, which is why I call for this project at the next stage of the work to be evaluated not only by me as an ombudsman for the rights of the child, because some stylistic, technical comments will be given to parliamentarians to report them in the right manner. It is worth noting that the civil rights guards, who are not here, are now commenting that the judges of the Supreme Court should also now make their comments. Let us improve this law, let us prepare it so that it is perfect so that we can begin with a clear conscience the next stage of the restoration of justice in the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u675	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u676	Any cases of sexual offences the victims of which are children should be strictly prosecuted and punished as severely as possible. This is a simple requirement of civilization, deeply rooted in the Christian heritage of our culture. In connection with the proposal to set up a special committee on the investigation of such crimes, I have a question: will they not be challenged in the future, among others. those provisions which give the committee the power to enter sex offenders in the register without a court ruling?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u677	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs, against a minor under the age of 15, in print No 3663, to the Legislative Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens (Print No 3622). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mark Nieblużak to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u678	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I am pleased to present a draft law amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens. But before I do, maybe two sentences of such a short introduction. Legislative work in our ministry can normally be classified as one of two categories. Some of our proposals are of such a nature, I would say, a systemic change in some area of law. Yes, here the most flagship example is certainly a package of laws called the constitution for business. Another such example could be, for example. Succession. But we also have, let's say, a second category of legislative work, and these are deregulation laws, package laws, which improve the legal environment in which entrepreneurs operate in a broad sense. And these laws tend to be a little bit of a character, if I may say, a patchwork. They are also the result of such a properly ongoing dialogue with entrepreneurs. As part of this dialogue, we collect requests, proposals, ideas, and once in a while we just group them together in one act. The second category includes this project, which I have the pleasure of presenting today. It contains more than 50 specific point changes in 66 laws, in the broad sense of economic law. I don't think I have to convince anyone how important this task is to reduce the regulatory burden for entrepreneurs. This is particularly important for SMEs, because there is a lot of research that shows that the smaller the business, the smaller the business, the more regulatory burden they cost, because such businesses often cannot afford, say, specialist assistance and lawyers or tax advisors. All the more so from the point of view of the competitiveness of the SME sector, trying to improve the legal environment, reducing burdens is particularly important. I do now. Since there are a lot of these concrete proposals, I will focus on some of the most important ones. I think... I'd like to start with what we call the password right to make a mistake. Sometimes I also often allow myself to call it the right to a yellow card. This is a solution that already works in legal systems, e.g. France. That's where we got them. And the idea is this. The idea is that entrepreneurs who are natural persons during the first year of their business activity, i.e. start-ups, can benefit from the right to error without being punished by administrative penalties, which would normally involve violating this provision and will only receive instruction. What's important, and I would also like to make it clear, that doesn't mean, you can say, something like that, that nothing is happening, because the condition of exercising the right to error is of course to correct such an offence as well. Of course, it cannot be serious, heavy, especially heavy. However, for individuals and for beginners, such a more friendly approach appears to be justified. Another proposal also involves, a little by little speaking, the friendship of economic law or the legal environment for entrepreneurs. This is to make it possible for businesses, including entrepreneurs, who, as in the previous proposal, are natural persons, or to put it this way: entrepreneurs operating on the basis of registration with CEIDG. Now, on this proposal, I would first of all like to make this point. Consumer law is, to a large extent, a European law based on directives and these directives allow the possibility, not from now on, only for a long time, to extend consumer protection, which, of course, normally belongs to consumers, but to operators in the SME sector. We take advantage of this possibility and extend it to situations where an entrepreneur, a natural person enters into an agreement with another entrepreneur, although directly related to the business activity carried out by it, but not having a professional character for it. It seems to me that this solution is also justified, that it breaks up with such a fiction of professionalism. Because very often they talk about entrepreneurs, about all entrepreneurs together, en block that they are professionals. And that, of course, is, on a daily basis, justified. However, of course it is not so that if someone e.g. he's, I don't know, a locksmith or a businessman in his company, e.g. entertaining or consulting, he is also a professional subject when, for example, comes to him, I don't know, buy yourself a printer for a company where he prints something, true that he knows how to buy printers to the extent that he knows about his particular area of activity. And it seems to me that in terms of consumer protection it is worth taking advantage of and it is worth to break with - I would call it - a fiction of the professionalism of entrepreneurs, individuals, i.e. those registered in CEIDG. Another change in this spirit, although more, let's say, limited subjective scope, is the change that enables crafts to be carried out in the form of a company. We in Poland have more than 200,000. people who wear crafts. I feel like this is a group of entrepreneurs that you sometimes forget about. She is very important, what's more, I think some market trends suggest whether they allow you to hope that it's a craft, if I may say so, will come back. As you can see, there are trends that emphasize that people are increasingly choosing custom-made items that are somehow characterized by mass production. I really hope it will be an opportunity for Polish craftsmen. I am also aware that the possibility of doing crafts, doing business in the form of a company will not be attractive as if for most, for all, but it is a necessary development path for these companies, these craftsmen, who, I say, are doing well, they are doing well, they are developing, they are developing. Entering the start-up stage of the company is kind of a natural development path. Today they do not have it, because it would in fact mean that there is no possibility of using professional qualifications, referring to these. I would also like to stress that this proposal is also very strongly supported by the craft industry. We also have changes that I would define in these successive stages, successive stages related to the success of companies. There was a law, which I myself mentioned earlier, of such a more systemic importance, just addressed to entrepreneurs, individuals, to entrepreneurs from CEIDG. This is a point solution which also allows the transfer of administrative decisions relating to the running of a business, where the trader in life, I stress, sells them or transfers them free of charge to his successor. This is very important, because first of all, as far as succession is concerned... For completely natural reasons, this is an increasingly important problem in Poland, because this is the first generation after the breakthrough, and entrepreneurs are often at such a age that they think about transferring the company further. It is important to stress very strongly that this process of success does not always involve the death of entrepreneurs, but it is very often still going on in the life of this entrepreneur, who would like to gradually withdraw from the company or would like to pass it on. This is a provision that allows such a transfer of decisions, which means someone has some licenses, permits, may carry them in their lifetime, even though they were previously issued specifically to this person, this older entrepreneur. This is a solution that will significantly facilitate the succession in life. The latest solution of the larger ones, which I would like to mention even from this point of view, is a tax solution, but it is actually of some broader economic importance. It concerns the settlement of VAT on goods and services, VAT. Why do I say it matters more? In fact, I should start a little bit different about this change. We are in a situation where our ports compete very strongly with ports primarily German, Dutch. We have data from the National Tax Administration, which shows that - given the value of imports - about 30% of imports that go to Poland do not go through Polish ports, but mainly through ports such as Hamburg and Rotterdam. One of the very important, not the only one, of course, but of the very important, factors determining the competitiveness of ports is how VAT is accounted for in imports. In Poland it is currently 10 days from customs clearance, in these ports west of us it is on general terms, i.e. the 25th day of the following month. This may seem a small difference, but when you are, as we have been, in contact with this import, logistics industry, it is desirable as one of the important factors determining the competitiveness of ports. So it is a change, as I say, seemingly small, linked to the deadline for VAT settlement in imports, but in fact aimed primarily at improving the competitiveness of Polish ports vis-à-vis those ports with which they most often compete. We are simply counting on the fact that at least part of this turnover, which anyway goes to Poland, will go to Poland not by Hamburg or Rotterdam, but by Gdansk or Szczecin, which will, of course, relate primarily to the development of these ports, but also worth mentioning that it will also involve a duty, which will then be paid in Poland. As I said, there are more changes, I allowed myself to mention only the most important ones. The expected effect of these changes is - in general, this common denominator for the project - the reduction of administrative burdens, some such facilitation, making the legal environment more friendly. For this reason, I ask you very much from this point of view to accept the project and direct it to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u679	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u680	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to you the position of the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce the regulatory burden on printing no. 3622. The draft law, also called the "Friendly State" package, is a cross-cutting and deregulation project aimed at implementing further facilitations for entrepreneurs. She wears, among other things. improving part of the specific administrative procedures, increasing the re-use of data held by public administrations, repealing unnecessary information obligations, clarifying ambiguous rules, limiting certain types of excessive reporting and adapting the rules to technological developments. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, when preparing this proposal, the Council of Ministers was motivated by the need to simplify the law, eliminate inconsistencies and ambiguity of the law and maintain only the necessary regulations. Such an action was planned in the Responsible Development Strategy. In addition to such profound changes as the introduction of the so-called. the right to error, the extension of consumer protection to natural persons engaged in business activities, further facilitation of business succession and changes to the VAT Act and trade law, the government proposes to introduce a number of other point changes which are also needed. These include the elimination of the tax levy for entry in the register of postal operators and the register of qualified trust service providers, the digitisation of certain reporting obligations for liquid fuels or the reduction of the number of information submitted per year for the provision of payment services. Particular attention should be paid to the introduction of a silent settlement and simplified procedure in specific administrative procedures. This will speed up and simplify the procedure, but will also improve and reduce the costs of the functioning of the public administration. The silent settlement of the case is that, where there is no decision of the authority after the deadline for the settlement of the case has expired, the matter shall be deemed to have been dealt with in full taking into account the request of the parties. There is no need for a decision. There are two modes of silent handling. The first one is a silent termination of proceedings. It is based on the fact that the matter is deemed to have been dealt with in accordance with the request of the party where the authority has not delivered a decision or order terminating the proceedings. This procedure mobilises the Authority to deal with matters in a timely manner and counters the length of proceedings. The second mode is silent consent. The matter shall be deemed to have been dealt with in accordance with the request if, within the time limit laid down for the handling of the matter, the authority does not object by decision. The aim of the simplified procedure is to reduce the time taken to deal with matters by a simple nature which do not require full investigation, based on a certain action plan. They are characterized by speed and limited formalism. It is only possible to settle the matter in simplified proceedings if there is a clear basis in substantive law. It should be stressed that this proposal provides for such provisions and will allow this model to be applied in specific cases, for example in the areas of public roads, maritime areas and maritime administration, Water law. The solutions envisaged in the project are necessary to ensure better conditions for doing business and by removing the various administrative barriers to unlock the potential needed for further business development in Poland. The project will therefore have a positive impact on the situation of all players in the market and is certainly a step in the direction that the economy wants. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law limiting burdensome and excessive legal obligations for entrepreneurs deserves support. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] favours further proceding this draft law and will support the proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u681	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska made her statement in writing. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u682	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to express my position on the draft law on the amendment of certain laws contained in print no. 3622 in order to reduce regulatory burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the printing, and this shows that some small changes, which are intended to make life easier for Polish entrepreneurs, require a very precise and precise approach and action - please, countries, the case concerns 66 laws - in order to apparently straighten things out, facilitate and settle things for entrepreneurs. What does that mean? It means that we still have so many challenges, that it's really just a licking, and there's still a big iceberg underneath. This shows how burdensome the formula of business activities in Poland is. We only touch the tip of the iceberg, we deal with the details. The good will of the government is evident here. The magnitude of bureaucratic burden and legal inconsistencies makes being an entrepreneur today unfortunately a kind of curse. It's worth keeping in mind. This is an important mobilisation factor for the ministry and the government side. As far as this printing is concerned, I would like to commend it, because during its work more than 300 stakeholders took part in the consultation. This is the first important plus, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about the fact that before the Ministry put a bill on the Marshall's table, it really did carry out a consultation and it's well documented. The second important advantage of this project is the attached implementing acts. As practice has shown in the last 4 years, this is not the norm, but it should be. Here the ministry has actually shown efficiency and solidity. I would like to thank the staff of the Ministry involved in this work. This shows that it is very likely that these regulations that we are working on today and which are intended to make life easier for entrepreneurs will be very well adopted by small entrepreneurs. These changes are dedicated to small and medium-sized enterprises. This group is often overlooked, often forgotten. This project is a tribute to them and I am glad that work has been done on it. Minister! This is the right direction. As Kukiz,15 we will support the work on this project. We will also mobilise you to take further steps to make life easier for Polish entrepreneurs. Being an entrepreneur in Poland cannot be burdensome because of regulations in Polish law. It can't be punished. You cannot punish people who pay taxes, maintain and build the Polish state. It is worth remembering in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u683	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. Time - 1 minute. [[He's pulling out.]] You're pulling out. Mr Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u684	Thank you. I have a quick question. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Internet industry protested against the treatment of individual entrepreneurs such as ordinary consumers in the context of the provisions of the Act. What will be the impact of these regulations on this industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u685	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u686	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Reducing the regulatory burden for entrepreneurs is a very good step in the direction. It is entrepreneurs who build the Polish economy, who build Poland. Our development is dependent on them, they create jobs. Do you realise that constant changes in the law for entrepreneurs contribute to the fact that they do not invest? Polish entrepreneurs do not invest in the development of their businesses, which would drive economic development and create jobs. They invest in themselves or save money because they are afraid of frequent legal changes in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u687	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Enterprise and Technology of Minister Mark Nieblużak. I hope it will be a very short speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u688	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u689	Thank you very much, because our work is not done for today. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Marek Nieżak: Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will respond very briefly to the question about the Internet industry. We, too, are in contact with companies in the industry and are responding to them on some of the demands you have asked about, i.e. on changes to the Civil Code on consumer protection. We decided on a fairly long vacathio legis - until 1 June next year - to give them a chance to build systems and prepare for a situation where they will need more customers, so to speak, to ask whether they are consumers or not. I think we're trying to meet them. I understand that this is their biggest concern. They say, "How will we know whether it will be professional or not?" I think it's just a matter of time before the market adapts. I also base this on the fact that some time ago it was extended in the field of insurance, for example. protection. Whether you're an entrepreneur or not, you're just insured. The market easily dealt with it, simply adjusted and the standard of protection went up. I think that's gonna happen here, too. Like I said, we've decided on a longer vacathio legis. I also do not exclude the creation of soft tools that could help, for example. in the interpretation of the rules in the future. Second question. I'll say this if I have... I'll try to adapt to your request and answer briefly. I think the investment phenomenon is very complex. I haven't seen any convincing research, and believe me, I've looked over a few, which would show a simple dependence, that entrepreneurs invest when the law doesn't change, and they don't invest when it changes. It seems to me that this issue is much more complex and perhaps not entirely related to the scope of this submission. Forgive me, also for the time being, I will finish answering the question here. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I also thank you for shortening your speech. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u690	The draft law contained in print No 3622 amends 74 laws. 181 comments were submitted to the Commission during the consultation. It is a comprehensive regulation which, I hope, will be examined very closely and thoroughly at the meetings of the relevant Parliamentary Committee. The mode of work is very important because it must be certain that the proposals are indeed deregulatory and are also systemic solutions, which are potentially addressed to all entrepreneurs. It is also necessary to draw attention to the signaled solutions which are pointed out as controversial and which, as a result, may have negative effects on the activities of entrepreneurs with the status of natural persons engaged in economic activities. An example of this is the proposal to extend certain rights to consumers to entrepreneurs who are natural persons. It is interesting to note in the draft the need to extend the scope of the SME Ombudsman's powers, but unfortunately to a very small extent. In order for him to be the actual spokesperson of entrepreneurs, there must be a change in the manner in which he is appointed and empowered, including the identification of certain reactions of the Ombudsman - mandatory and not wishful thinking, in accordance with the principle of "if he wishes." As a club, we tabled amendments in this regard when adopting the SME Ombudsman Act. Now, taking this opportunity, we're going back to this important topic. We will also make other deregulation amendments, because we want entrepreneurs to have real support.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u691	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I will present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens. The aim of the proposed action is to reduce unnecessary and excessive regulatory burdens in order to generate concrete savings on the part of citizens and businesses. This will result in faster and more efficient administrative procedures, which should also translate into saving time and efficiency of public administration. Actions should create a positive boost to quality of life, economic prospects and the level of social confidence. In addition, support under the innovation programmes will result in the development of a system of instruments for innovative start-ups and innovation for SMEs. Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland is in favour of further work on the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u692	Minister! Are the changes proposed by the State Ministry moving in the longer term towards a change in the philosophy of administration based on statements, of course, with a severe Penalisation of false statements? Such a direction of change seems to be the only hope for a serious reduction of unnecessary procedures and, consequently, a reduction of administrative costs on the part of both citizens and public institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u693	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce the regulatory burden to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 61 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws (prints No 3656 and No 3690). I would very much like to ask Mr Dariusz Kubiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u694	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws, print No. 3656. The Commission for Energy and Treasury examined the draft law at its meeting on 18 July 2019 and adopted the draft with six amendments. The aim of this project is to implement additional actions to achieve the target of a 15% share of energy from renewable sources in gross final energy consumption in 2020. In particular, auctions for renewable energy sources, which will be carried out in 2019 under the transitional provisions of a project setting out the quantity and value of electricity from RES sold under auction, will be a means to achieve this objective. Ladies and gentlemen! As we know from the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2018, if we had failed to achieve this level of 15% the share of renewable energy, we would have a serious problem. Poland would face the need for a statistical transfer of energy from RES from the Member States of the European Union, which would have a surplus of such energy. As the Supreme Audit Chamber points out in this report, the cost of this transfer could be up to PLN 8 billion. The aim of the proposed solutions is also to increase energy security, which should result in sustainable access to energy to final customers in the long term, while keeping energy prices as low as possible. Among the key changes introduced by the Renewable Energy Act are the extension of the prosumer support mechanism to business entities and the implementation of new mechanisms for the promotion and development of energy cooperatives in rural or urban-rural areas. The aim of this project is among others.: extension of mandatory time limits for connection contracts for existing RES projects, implementation of selected issues of the RES Act, resulting in the elimination of uncertainty on the part of entrepreneurs participating in the auction system and registered in the system of certificates of origin. In addition, the project provides for strengthening the credibility of Polish guarantees of origin, recognition of them on the basis of reciprocity, among others. in other Member States of the European Union and to increase the maximum capacity of biogas installations which will be able to benefit from FIP support in order to ensure predictable conditions for the development of stable energy sources, which at the same time bring additional benefits to the domestic economy in addition to electricity production. The project has also taken into account the risk of non-starting sales in the auction system due to the accumulation of concession procedures and ensures that as many projects as possible are implemented to achieve the renewable energy targets set for 2020. The project also sets out precisely the dates of the first introduction of electricity into the grid under the support scheme and therefore sets out precisely the level of RES charges in a given calendar year, as well as the rules under the procedure for the admission to auction of energy-producing installations prior to the date of publication of the auction due to the resulting interpretative doubts. The proposed changes meet the social expectations and expectations of micro- and small entrepreneurs and represent important solutions, in particular for RES power generators and the whole RES industry, equipment manufacturers, designers, installers and funders of these investments. I've dealt with it myself. Yesterday, for example, from my city, the energy center of Poland, Bełchatów, I got a lot of signals and voices worried about whether we could adopt this bill. Yeah, we're gonna make it, and I think a lot of people in the industry are gonna love this decision. I will also mention here that, with regard to the six amendments I mentioned at the beginning, one of them is an amendment aimed at clarifying the definition of agricultural biogas and facilitating the use of the various raw materials that arise at the processing stage of agricultural products. This is the use of very valuable raw materials for biogas production, which not only contain no impurities, but are also safe for the health and life of humans and animals. This will also have an impact on the improvement of the water and sewage economy. One of these amendments will also have an impact on the development of hydropower plants with a capacity of up to 2.5 MW through a support system, i.e. the possibility of benefiting from a guarantee premium. Here we are dealing with an extension of the power range from the current level of 1 MW to 2.5 MW. This will, of course, increase the number of units that produce energy, and thus, as far as energy from RES is concerned, this share will definitely increase. The Commission has also adopted legislative, editorial and clarification amendments. On behalf of the committee, I request that the Sejm adopt the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u695	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u696	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on this draft law. I would like to point out briefly that all these arguments which the rapporteur has spoken of here are in favour of supporting this law, and particularly its last sentence, mentioned by the Member, that it is a law which meets the social expectations and expectations of micro and small enterprises. That is why the Law and Justice Club will support this law. We tabled a few amendments at first reading, during the committee's deliberations, because we want this law to be even better than it was presented by the government. Today, too, we have a small amendment that I would like to make, but in general, the bill, as I said, is expected and the Law and Justice Club will support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u697	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u698	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll try very briefly. The story is rolling, which is why I'd like to remind you what happened in the energy industry four years ago. Together with many Members, we have prepared a very good RES law, assessed by external experts, and not only by Polish experts. There were introduced auctions and energy consumers in our country, preparing for this amendment of the law, saving over PLN 12 billion on the market. It has already been emphasized here that it is very late - or early - time, and we are proceeding on such an important bill. And it's not that we complain that we're here because sometimes you have to work at night to prepare something good. But why at night, and why are we talking about a key act at the last session of the Sejm? If we don't introduce it, then we've heard here - potentially an eight-billion-dollar charge for failing to meet the targets. This is a wasted time, four years when it comes to renewables. This bill is a firefighter's act. Previously, a minister from another industry said he didn't know examples where legal mess deters investors. This RES is the best proof that legal mess scares investors off. The targets are not met. I will not convince anyone whether Poland will reach 19,1 in electricity or 15 in total energy consumption of RES in 2020, as this time will show. But based on expert statements, with knowledge of the subject, we will not achieve it, and please hold me by my word. This transfer of renewable energy from EU countries is still cheaper than the penalties we will pay for the government delaying until the last minute. What is the effect of four years of government? The dramatic rise in electricity prices in our country. And what do you do during the election year? We have already discussed this at the previous session of the Sejm. It's legally ordered to sell energy below cost so that people don't accidentally say what they think. To conclude, because I do not want to extend, so early in the time, I would like to say that we will not make any amendments to this law because they make no sense. We can show that individual provisions could be corrected, but the overarching purpose of this law is to expect investors who are ready to invest and get support. Of course, this will not be a widespread investment, and in 2020 all this will not be finalised. We have heard today that an investment well prepared, no matter what, must take three years to contract energy sales. But given that many willing investors would like to invest under this law, let them have legal tools prepared. But every government after October will change this bill. We, as a coalition of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, have prepared very good solutions to protect the final recipient and lead to rational use of ideas for renewable energy sources in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u699	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u700	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the draft Print Act No. 3656 on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. Soon it will be morning, and actually on Friday morning we can say that we are saving this bill or are we getting holy peace worth 8 billion. This bill is worth $8 billion. This is the first good news. The second important good news is that we're trying, although maybe on paper at the beginning, to get closer to the magical digit 15%. , such a specific sponsor for the next Friday, the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2020 The third issue is energy security. From this speaker over the last 4 years, not to say: for 30, the concept of energy security has been changed by various cases, and I still have the awareness and impression that we are far from this real energy security. But it's a good thing we're talking about it, and at least we're trying. Another issue is to maintain the lowest energy price for the final consumer - this is also another important aspect that this law deals with. The subject of auction and clarification of the many nuances and details that the industry is waiting for - this is also very important. In all our history of RES... 'Cause I get the feeling that sometimes it looks like a magical story. We don't really appreciate it, and we either don't understand it or we're scared. Or maybe not: or maybe big energy players are afraid and are trying to torpedo it somewhere. I don't know. The subject's open. The question is why we are afraid of RES, why we do not want to encourage RES from municipalities, small cooperatives or private entities - to apply this distributed energy, which is really the most real one today in the Polish system and conditions. It's just something we're doomed to and should strive for. I would like the Polish government not to be afraid of RES and the High Chamber, the Polish Parliament, to be open to work. 'Cause I feel like we're gonna get back to this really fast. The announcements for the year have come about the fact that energy prices will continue to rise, that we will need even more subsidies, simply means one thing: We must all, all the forces in the Polish Parliament, seriously think about it. Because regardless of who wins the elections, who will rule and what the Prime Minister will be called, he will have to answer the question of how to guarantee the citizens, the Polish state cheap electricity, cheap energy, and at the same time not allow us to bear unnecessary costs. That is why Kukiz15 supports this project, we will work on it, we show our openness. And well, we encourage the Ministry to continue to work very effectively. By the way, thank you again for the consultation - a large group, the comments shown. Again a very positive thing - the proposed implementing acts attached. This is also very important, it shows that this is a specific set for a good start. I'll take that as a good fortune to continue my work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u701	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question at this point? [[As rapporteur, can I have one sentence?]] But only after the questions, because there will be questions. [[Of course.]] Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u702	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Renewable energy sources are the biggest challenge facing the Polish government, because the whole world knows that the most poisoned air in Europe is in Poland. But at the rate that the state, the current government, is approaching renewable energy sources, we have no chance of improving it. Of course it is clear that by 2020 we must reach 15% energy from these sources. That's what we were talking about. We as the Civic Platform as early as the first year of your reign, this term of office, when you murdered wind power plants. You don't build new ones. The windmills actually... A huge amount of wind energy production has been lost. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We said at the time that by 2020, you would not be able to do it any other way, thus moving towards renewable energy...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u703	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u704	...to produce so much energy. So? And it turns out we were right.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u705	And last question, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u706	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A brief question: Couldn't you really have done it before? I understand that this project, of course, saves us 8 billion, that's understandable. But at the last session of the Sejm... This is the real question: Couldn't you have done it before? Do we have had such a policy for many, many years: there were some rulers, now we come, we start cleaning up after them, and we start working things out our own way? Is there really no way to continue this cooperation? It can't be said that the predecessors didn't do anything about RES. Mr Czerwiński himself said that they also had a bill prepared, that everything was also there. It's gonna make a difference. It's gonna make things better. And we couldn't do it for four years, and now at the last session of the Sejm less than 24 hours ago, this is the kind of woman who goes to first reading. Can't you? You didn't want to do that? Finally, I thank your marshal and the entire secretariat for today's hours of perseverance and just strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u707	Thank you. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr. Tomasz Dąbrowski for as short as possible, if there is a chance, to address questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u708	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft was presented in detail by the rapporteur. I will only briefly recapitulate what is most important in this project and was discussed among others. in questions. Firstly, provisions are introduced to allow auctions to take place. Secondly, we extend the scope of feed-in premium mechanisms. Thirdly, we are significantly expanding the mechanism for all simplifications for prosumers so that business operators can use them. Fourthly, we are introducing regulations on energy cooperatives. And I'm saying this to say that we're not afraid of renewable energy sources. Their development must be done in a well planned, civilized way, so as not to cause a problem in any of the areas. We are not afraid of renewable energy sources, as shown, among others. numbers. Last year the auctions at RES resulted in more than 1000 MW of installed power in the wind, including wind and photovoltaics, more than 550 MW in photovoltaics alone. With regard to the auctions planned for this year, these rules will make it 3400 MW. If we put it together with the amount of 6000 MW in the wind that we already have today, then in a very short time it will be half of what it already is today. Indeed, the government is not afraid of renewable energy sources; only their development must be done in a well planned way. There were different threads about whether this project could have been created before. Please note that this is quite extensive seismic printing, which also shows the comments that have been submitted. The fact that today is so easy to process on this project results, among others. the fact that there has been a long-standing public consultation, which has served to listen closely to the demands of the industry arising from the practice of applying the existing legislation and to translate them into provisions that remove, for example, interpretation doubts within the meaning of the various provisions of the current law. If we reach out to the earlier functioning of these provisions, the functioning of this law did not allow the auction to take place in the case of such a large number of megawatts, and at the moment it is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u709	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u710	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for your work on the committee for all these votes. We didn't always agree, but on such an important subject, on such an important matter, every vote has its value. I would be far from the simplifications I've heard about here that this bill is worth $8 billion. This is the respect of the Supreme Board of Control. We know that many factors, many variables have an impact on this. I am pleased that at the committee meeting we heard from the person who represented the Energy Regulatory Office that this is sufficient time to prepare the auction. Let us hope that these auctions will be conducted very efficiently, because right now it is, as I said, a very important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u711	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u712	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I present my position on the governmental draft law on amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The project concerns, in line with the justification, the implementation of additional actions to achieve the target - 15% share of energy from renewable sources in gross final energy consumption by 2020, and an increase in energy security and in the long term - to ensure permanent access to electricity from renewable energy sources sold at auctions in 2019 by indicating in the transitional provisions its maximum quantities and values. The PSL-KP Club will vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u713	Minister! The obvious barrier to the development of RES in Poland is the lack of installed enough power from stable sources to ensure the certainty of supply with a mix of energy with a large share of sources such as wind power plants and photovoltaics. I have a question: Is there a market model based on market conditions for an assessment of profitability, which should become a strong substantive basis for the Polish proposal for a new energy policy within the EU, in addition to the increasingly complex and inefficient system of auctions and guarantees of origin required by Community law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u714	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 18 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Only Mr Wojciech Murdzek is from the Members who have been reported in the Chamber. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u715	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2001, the local authorities of Świdnica, headed by the town of Świdnica, took the initiative to build a ring road for the town of Świdnica. At the initiative and for the money of local governments, the concept of this ring road was developed. The average daily traffic of vehicles on a national road exceeds the average for the national road network. The dynamics of traffic growth are very high. The section of the national road No 35 between Wałbrzych and Wroclaw is one of the most heavy traffic in Lower Silesia. Tragic road accidents, which have been taking place on this road for many years within the limits of Świdnica, show that concerns about the safety of the inhabitants are very real. The safety of pedestrian and circular traffic is the most important reason for which the ring road should be built. It is also necessary to relieve the historic centre of Świdnica, to bring heavy transit traffic beyond built-up areas and to reduce the nuisance of more than 700 historical objects entered in the register of monuments, including the Church of Peace included in the UNESCO World Heritage List or the historic cathedral, which was included in the list of historical monuments. Designed national road bypass no. 35 is to take over about 75% transit currently carried out through the centre of Świdnica. The Commission's assessment of investment projects has clearly confirmed the need for urgent construction of the ring road. The complete concept of the ring road location was made. The project obtained the necessary environmental permits and was fully prepared to announce the tender for the technical documentation. Literally a few weeks to announce the tender. By decision of the Minister of Transport Sławomir Nowak the work was stopped, regional funds of the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways were apparently needed by Warsaw. The road situation in Świdnica for the next several years has been further destroyed. Unfortunately, no efforts resulted in a return to this interrupted bypass project. Thousands of people's signatures, experts' opinions didn't help. The project did not find its place in the national road construction plan prepared by the previous government. I would like to draw attention to the need to take action to ensure that this necessary project for the construction of the Świdnica ring road is included in the National Road Construction Programme. Maybe it's worth to start by allocating funds to the Świdnica ring road documentation on national road 35. In Lower Silesia it has been known for years that it is necessary to rebuild the national road No. 8 on the section Wroclaw - Kłodzko. The National Road Construction Programme 2014-2023 (with a view to 2025) sets out investment priorities for the development of national road infrastructure to be implemented by 2025. The issue of improving the safety of traffic on the national road No 8, as well as the improvement of the important connection with Wrocław to the southern part of the Lower Silesian voivodship, has been addressed with particular attention in the work on the final shape of the above mentioned. the document, which was reflected in the task of rebuilding the section of the national road No 8 between Wroclaw and Kłodzek. Implementation of this investment is necessary in order to increase the capacity and speed of travel and eliminate dangerous places. In addition, international transit and transit of heavy goods vehicles outside the urban and rural areas would be carried out. The necessary substantive scope of the project should include the reconstruction of approx. 75 km of the national road No 8 to Section 2 x 2 together with the construction of bypasses in the village and reconstruction of crossings with other roads. The work currently being carried out in relation to the development of documentation should determine the final, most optimal cross-section of the road. The stage of implementation of the documentation shall have secured funding under State budget appropriations. I would like to appeal for the provision of adequate resources for the realization of this very important task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-18-sejm-84-2.u716	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. with a population of around 13 million. By the Soviet authorities in October 1939, the Okręjona Wilenszczyzna was solemnly handed over to Lithuania. Not for long, however, because already in June 1940. Lithuania, together with Latvia and Estonia, became part of the USSR. The number of victims among Polish citizens who were under Soviet occupation in 1939 and 1941, is still not fully known. (vote No 5). I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 2 min 30]]
