ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u1	Resume session. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and please take your seats. I would like to appoint Marta Kubiak, Robert Warwas, Arkadius Myrcha and Krystian Jarubas to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Robert Warwas. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Arkadiusz Myrch. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats at the Presidential table. Ladies and gentlemen, please stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Izbo! On 30 September this year. Kornel Morawiecki, politician and academic teacher, anti-communist opposition activist at the time of the Polish People's Republic, founder and chairman of the Solidarity Fighting, Member and Marshal of the Seym of the 8th term, bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle. We escorted your marshal on his last trip. And tomorrow we will do so to our colleague, Mr Jan Szyszka, who died on 9 October. He was also an academic teacher, a professor of forest sciences and a politician, a minister of the environment, a Member of the Sejm V, VI, VII and VIII term. Let's celebrate their memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] High Izbo, please rise again. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On 7 October, 25 years have passed since the tragic death of MEPs in the Second Polish Parliament: Mrs Halina Licnerska, Mrs Wanda Sokołowska, Mrs Maria Trzcińska-Fajfrowska and Mr Marian Korczak. Mr Andrzej Włodakow, an employee of the Sejm, was also killed in the accident. Let's celebrate their memory with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Izbo! Following the expiry of the mandate of Mr Kornel Morawiecki, pursuant to Article. 251 § 5 of the electoral code, I have decided to replace Mrs Edyta Kubik, who has taken the oath of a Member of Parliament. I ask Mrs Edyta Kubik to approach the Presidency table. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Are you an MP? I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Edyta Kubik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u2	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u3	Thank you very much. I state that Mrs Edyta Kubik has taken a vow of marriage. [[Applause]] The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the draft law amending the Public Offering Act and the conditions for introducing financial instruments into the organised trading system and on public companies and certain other laws, print No 3816. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of item 25: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on the calculation of the annual gross domestic product, prints 3727 and 3742. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 36th agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments will not be considered. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u4	I'd like to inform you that the main lobby has been open for hours. 10 will be a book of condolences dedicated to the memory of John Szyszka. Today, the Commission will meet: - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 9, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 12, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 16, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy - at 17, - Health-- hour. 17 a.m. 18. Today there will also be meetings of parliamentary teams: - Parliamentary Group for: Public Health - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Multiple sclerosis - hour 16. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u5	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act (Prints 3761 and 3785). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] And yours in the courtroom, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Public Finance Committee. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] on a government bill amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, print no.3761. On 22 August 2019 the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above project to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading, which was carried out on 29 August 2019. The Committee on Public Finance, having examined this project in detail, adopted this draft law. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt a government draft print law no.3761. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u7	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask the representative of the Law and Justice to speak. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblechta again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, print no.3761. The proposed amendments to the law of 1 March 2018 on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing are intended to fully and correctly implement into the Polish legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2015/849 of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. The correctness of the implementation of Directive 2015/849 is currently being investigated by the European Commission. In the context of the present procedure, the European Commission issued an additional justification in which it questioned the transposition into national law of a number of provisions of Directive 2015/849. As a result of the verification of national anti-money laundering legislation adopted to transpose the Directive, the editorial units of the law have been identified, which should be amended correctly in order to ensure the transparency necessary for the application and implementation of European Union law. In particular, it should be pointed out that Article. 54 (1) (a) Point 2 (1) of the Act narrowed down the list of entities that could exchange information within the group on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing activities. Art. 54 (1) (a) Points 2, 3 and 4 of the Act introduce rules on the exemption of certain entities from the confidentiality of information to the financial analyst. Art. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The aim of the Act is to regulate the prevention by Member States of situations where the beneficiaries of the actual entities listed in Article. 2 (2) 1 as well as the managers of such entities were criminal persons. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 point 1 of the Act is due to the need to close the gap by failing to include in the existing law an authority entitled to impose an administrative penalty on obliged institutions audited under Article. Article 130 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Art. Article 154 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 introduces rules on the applicability of penalties and measures to members of the management body and other natural persons responsible for the infringement of anti-money laundering rules. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the draft law has introduced adaptation solutions which are necessary as a result of changes to the article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 1a. The provisions of the proposed law will affect the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector by requiring entrepreneurs to have knowledge or experience in their business. The draft law is not subject to notification. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in the votes. At the same time, on behalf of the club, I propose amendments to this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u9	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act in print no.3761. This is an implementation directly into the Polish legal order of the Council and European Parliament Directive. The amendments concern mainly the extension of the catalogue of entities which will be able to exchange information on the activities undertaken in the field of anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. Other changes included in this project include exempting some of the entities from the confidentiality of information to the financial analyst, as well as requiring entrepreneurs to comply with the relevant competence and ethical criteria. Changes are also made concerning administrative penalties. The introduction of the Directive itself will be conducive - and this has been emphasised - to the transparency of the rules and should also increase the efficiency of the functioning of the system, which is aimed precisely against money laundering or the financing of terrorism. Thus, the law fully adapts the provisions to the directive - to the extent that the European Commission has found shortcomings in the implementation of the new rules into Polish law. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition supports the bill presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u11	Thank you. Are there Members who would like to speak or ask a question? If not, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Thank you. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 22 hours 9 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on Government and Senate drafts of laws amending the Family and Care Code Act (Prints No. 3573, 3486 and 3694). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act, Parliamentary Printing No. 3573, and a senate draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act, Sejm Printing No. 3486. These projects are a combination of the Senate's draft amendment to the Family and Care Code and the government's draft amendment to the same law Family and Care Code. Originally it was a judgment initiative of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The Constitutional Tribunal delivered a judgment of 16 May 2018, e.g. Act SK 18/17, found non-compliance with Article. 70 § 1 of the Law of 25 February 1964. Family and caring code with the Constitution, specifically with Article. 30, Art. 47 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Court held that Article. 70 § 1 The family and caring code, in so far as it sets a time limit for an action to deny the fatherhood of the mother's husband, irrespective of the date on which an adult child hears that he does not come from his mother's husband, is incompatible with Article. 30 Constitution, Art. 47 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Art. 30 represents the natural and inalienable dignity of man, which is the source of freedom and human rights and of the citizen. Art. The 47th Constitution states that everyone has the right to legal protection of private, family, honor and good name and to decide on their personal life. Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland contains the principle of proportionality, which values constitutional goods. It is also about human rights in this case. In the explanatory memorandum of the judgment cited above, the Constitutional Tribunal considered that the legislator was not exempted from the obligation to do so properly, i.e. in accordance with the Constitution, normalising the period for the child to bring an action for denial of fatherhood. Similar legal solutions are found in two other provisions of the Family and Care Code, namely Article. 61 § 1 of the Family and Care Code determining the date for an adult child to bring an action for the denial of motherhood in a situation where his birth certificate includes a woman who did not give birth to him. The second case is Art. 81 § 2 A family and caring code setting a time limit for an adult child to bring an action to determine the inefficiencies of the recognition of fatherhood by a man who is not his father. Therefore, the Senate in its proposal proposed that the three-year period for the child to bring an action for denial of motherhood or the determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of fatherhood should be set in the same way as in the case of denial of fatherhood. The three-year term will therefore be counted against the attainment of the child's age, unless the difference between the legally established subsidiary bond and the biological bond of the child becomes apparent after the child's age is reached. On 26 June 2019 in the same case based on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 May 2018, the signature of the act of the Court of First Instance SK 18/17, received a government project containing an extended version of the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal by cases concerning inter alia. the setting up of a statutory representative for an incapacitated person who can also bring those three actions, i.e. Denial of fatherhood, denial of motherhood and determination of failure to recognize fatherhood. In addition, this extension also applies to the withdrawal of the incapacity, with the following time limit: within one year of the date of the news or one year from the date of age or one year after the cessation of the disease or disorder on the basis of which the incapacity was established. The government project also proposed a transitional provision, which was not the case for the Senate project, namely the addition of an article. 2 (2) 1 that in cases of denial of fatherhood, denial of motherhood or determination of the ineffectiveness of recognition of fatherhood initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Law, the provisions of the Act as amended by Article 1 shall apply. 1 in the wording of this Act, that is to say, the project we are currently working on. Where an action in the matters referred to in paragraph is brought. 1 - that is the further provision of Article. 2 - has brought a child, the time limit for bringing such an action must not end earlier than 3 years after the date of entry into force of this Act. The time limit for vacathio legis was set at 30 days from the date of its publication. At the Extraordinary Commission meeting on amendments to the codifications on 24 July 2019, the committee considered both projects and introduced only technical and editorial changes. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt a draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act in accordance with Seym print No. 3694 based on this government project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u13	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u14	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports government and senate draft laws amending the Family and Care Code, prints no. 3573, 3486, 3694. As my previous speaker said, the need to amend the Law of 25 February 1964. The Family and Care Code on subsidiary law arises from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 May 2018, in which the Constitutional Tribunal found that Article. 70 § 1 in so far as it sets a time limit for an action to deny the fatherhood of a mother's husband, irrespective of the date on which an adult child becomes aware of the fact that it does not originate from a mother's husband, it is incompatible with Article. 30 in conjunction with Article. 37 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The constitutional problem raised in the complaint referred to the method of determining the date from which it is calculated. The legislator has decided that the starting date for an adult child to bring an action against a mother's husband's father is the date on which the child reaches an adult age. But it doesn't matter when the child found out that it wasn't from his mother's husband. In practice, the deadline may therefore expire before the person concerned can obtain information on actual biological origin at all. In its assessment of the contested legislative solution, the Court took into account the current case law, which shows that, under the Constitution, there is a specific right for every person to know his identity and to establish a relationship between him and another person in accordance with biological truth. This right is closely linked to the principle of protection of dignity, Article. 30 constitutions, as well as the right to protect private and family life, art. 47 constitutions. The right to know its own roots and legal determination of biological origin is not absolute, but possible limitations must be justified by other constitutional values and meet the requirement of proportionality, Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. The proposed solution is also in line with the position of the European Court of Human Rights in its judgment of 20 December 2007. It is also proposed to amend the Article consistently in order to harmonise the regulation in this area. 61 § 1 concerning the denial of motherhood, Art. 81 § 2 on the determination of the failure to recognise the fatherhood. The project therefore envisages modifying the beginning of the gear's period for the child to bring an action for denial of fatherhood, denial of motherhood and determination of the inefficiencies of the recognition of fatherhood. These terms are to run from the moment the child learns of biological non-origin from a person whose motherhood or fatherhood has been established. The project retains the construction of terms of a pre-cluse nature, the expiry of which leads to the expiry of the active card. The annual deadlines should be considered as a compromise proposal. On the one hand, they offer a realistic opportunity to make a thoughtful decision with extremely serious and long-term consequences and, on the other hand, do not unduly destabilise the legal situation of the child. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice I strongly recommend further proceedings over the bill. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the parliamentary club, I am making amendments. We propose after the article. 1 add Article. 1a-1c. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u15	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I will present my position on the committee's report on the Senate and Government bill amending the Family and Care Code Act, prints No. 3573, 3486 and 3694. Both projects shall comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. At the committee meeting, it was assumed that the government project would be a core project, given that it was more extensive. It also regulates the denial of motherhood and contains inter-temporal provisions. The draft envisages a modification of the time limit for the denial of both fatherhood and motherhood as well as the determination of the failure to recognise the fatherhood. The draft envisages changing the six-month time limits laid down in the Articles in force: Article. 61, Art. 63, Art. 65, Art. 69, Art. 76 and Article 76 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 78, for annual time limits. The draft also provides for the beginning of the period for mother and mother's husband to bring an action for denial of fatherhood. He would run from the day those people found out that the baby wasn't from his mother's husband. The proposed amendment concerns the beginning of the deadline and does not concern the situation referred to in Article. 61 and Article 61 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 78. According to the government project, it will be possible to bring an action within a year from the date on which the child learned of this circumstance. During the committee's work, comments were made that the proposed § 1 a rigid deadline has been re-established which has been challenged by the European Court. Not foreseen e.g. the situation that after a year the mother will take knowledge e.g. I'm talking about switching kids at the hospital. It has therefore been argued that in the future it may be challenged by the Constitutional Court or by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which in many judgments disputes such rigid deadlines. The discussion did not exclude that these provisions would be amended in the future. Editorial amendments were tabled during the committee's work. High Izbo! As the projects carry out the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, we are as a club in favour of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u18	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a statement by the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Family and Care Code, prints no. 3573, 3486 and 3694. As this is the last session of the 8th term of office of the Sejm, it must be noted that the Family and Care Code was the rarest of all 11 codes governing the matter of judicial law. We hope that the family law in the next term of the Sejm will be no less stable than before, because unfortunately, in the case of codes governing procedures, the amendment pursued the amendment. This draft law brings the law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 May 2018. The Court held at that time that Article. 70 § 1 of the Code, in so far as it sets a time limit for an action to be brought against the fatherhood of the mother's husband, irrespective of the date on which an adult child becomes aware of the fact that it does not originate from his mother's husband, it is incompatible with Article. 30 in conjunction with Article. 47 and in conjunction with Article 47 thereof. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It should be borne in mind that the basic method of determining the paternity of a child is laid down in Article. 62 § 1 of the family code presumption of origin of the child from the husband of the mother. This applies to children born during a marriage or within 300 days of its cessation or cancellation, except when the child was born 300 days after the date of the separation. The claim for denial of fatherhood is the only provision for a mechanism to overturn the presumption of legal origin from the mother's husband. If the reason is to be the child, the action must be brought before the expiry of the time limit laid down in the Article. 70 § 1 of the family code. At the same time, the Court stated that it was the result of the article. 71 § 1 of the family code limitation does not compensate for the prosecutor's compensation for bringing an action for denial of paternity under Article. 86. The envisaged content of the Article. 86 merely confirms the thesis of the arbitrary legal solution preventing the child himself from bringing such an action after the expiry of a three-year period, which in this case starts running regardless of when the child found out that it was not from his mother's husband. There is no question of the legitimacy of the legal solution, since the stabilisation of the legal situation to be achieved by the removal of the directly interested persons, including an adult child, of the possibility of bringing an action for denial of paternity, can at any time be dropped at the initiative of the prosecutor. In addition, the decision to bring an action by the prosecutor depends solely on his own assessment of the alternative conditions of the child's well-being and the protection of the social interest. That authority shall in no way be bound by the position of the person who has applied to it in this regard. Finally, the very need to reveal to the prosecutor the facts of family life that would testify to the origin of a man other than his mother's husband is linked to the interference of public authority in the sphere of private and family life. In addition, the draft law is to amend the six-month time limits laid down in the existing Articles of the Family and Welfare Code: Article. 61, Art. 63, Art. 64, Art. 65, Art. 69, Art. 76 and Article 76 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 78, for annual time limits. This solution is intended to give time for the most interested parties to decide whether or not to accept the legal situation they have produced. With regard to European case-law on this issue, it should be recalled that in its judgment of 20 December 2007 the European Court of Human Rights upheld the observation that birth, and in particular the circumstances relating thereto, are part of the private life of a child and later of an adult who is protected under Article. 8 the European Convention on Human Rights. Respect for private life requires that everyone be able to establish his identity as a human being. The individual's right to information on this subject is fundamental because of the influence that this information has on the formation of his or her personality. Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland is in favour of continuing work on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 to 10 a.m. 10 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies and on Certain Other Acts (Prints No. 3755 and 3816). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to adopt a law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and on Certain Other Acts, Print No. 3755 and 3816. This is an EU directive, which we have worked very long and which we have worked very carefully on, first in the subcommittee on financial institutions, then in the committee. This is an EU regulatory requirement to introduce such safeguards for market participants. This is about the security of individuals in public offering procedures, so that they can guarantee that there will be no abuse here. It is a huge change in very many laws and regulations already in force, but it seems to be a necessary, important regulation. I'm asking you to pass this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u21	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u22	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies and some other laws in print No 3755 and in print No 3816. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law aims to improve, establish legal regulations encouraging shareholders of public companies to engage in long-term activities and improve the transparency of legal relations between the company and the investor. To this end, the following arrangements are envisaged: facilitating companies to identify their shareholders, setting uniform requirements for the provision of information to shareholders, the need for asset managers to provide information on whether and how these entities operate in the best long-term interest of the investor, regulation of the rules of operation of the so-called "business." advisors to investors in connection with the vote. In addition, in order to ensure the correct application of Regulation 2017/1129, the following arrangements are envisaged in the draft law: the designation of the Financial Supervision Commission as the competent authority to supervise compliance with the rules and fulfil the obligations laid down in that Regulation, the provision of supervisory powers to the Financial Supervision Commission and the power to impose administrative sanctions for failure to apply the provisions of Regulation 2017/1129. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of all these regulations, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. Nevertheless, we will allow your marshal to submit an amendment to the above draft law relating to the article. Point 73 in conjunction with Article 1. 91. The aim of this amendment is to eliminate potential interpretative doubts related to the rules for determining the public company share price calls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is very good that we are finally implementing the Polish directive and amending what we have not really been able to do in a way that is consistent with the assumptions. Investors - especially private minority investors - are far from being cared for in our country. The introduction of GetBack SA bonds was an example that best demonstrated how an unfair investor could draw money illegally, easily out of the pockets of citizens and then invest it with inadequate care. Citizens who invest in private bonds and private shares should be more protected by the state. This is extremely important. As legislators, we should ensure that such instruments are actually directed primarily at educated citizens who are aware of the risks taken with investing in various types of instruments placed on the public market. This law and this amendment solve many problems to a large extent, but I cannot agree with you that they are instruments, mechanisms sufficient. I think that the 9th Sejm will still have to lean on the capital market and instruments introduced into the private circulation, but first let us actually finish working on this law. Today we have a huge problem - not solved at all, not affected at all. It is about what we should do if we find this unfair investor who, you might say, has located instruments that are not in accordance with financial art or has placed instruments that are not in conformity with the prospectus. As you can see, law enforcement has a huge problem investigating the truth and finding the money of citizens invested in such investors. Here the whole model of state response to the detection of the financial pyramid should be introduced. I think that we should actually lean on this in the next term of the Sejm as members of the Committee on Public Finance. So much for me. Of course, as a Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition we will support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u25	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u26	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I would like to present a position towards the government's draft law on amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies and some other laws. The draft law aims to establish legal regulations encouraging shareholders of public companies to engage in long-term activities and to increase the transparency of legal relations between companies and investors. To this end, it provides for a number of solutions which should be considered beneficial. According to the club Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Coalition Poland work on this project should continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u27	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor or ask a question? If not, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act (Prints No 3665 and 3801). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report from the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government bill amending the Penal Code Act, Seym printing No 3665. Marshal of the Sejm at its 85th meeting of 30 August 2019 pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. The Extraordinary Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 30 August 2019, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. This proposal is introduced in Article. 115 Penal Code, in the dictionary of legal terms, definition of adoption within the meaning of criminal law, adding after § In Article 22, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 115 Penal Code § 22a, who says that adoption is the acquisition of parental authority over the child by a person other than the one from whom the child comes. According to the current state of law, criminal liability today only threatens the organisation of large-scale illegal adoptions - art. 211a Criminal Code. According to the justification of the government project, according to estimates in Poland it can reach up to 2 000 per year. accidents in child trafficking at around 3 000. legal adoptions. The above considerations justify the necessity, the need to criminalise conduct which is subject to consent to the acquisition of parental authority over a child by a person who is not his or her biological parent by concealing the essential circumstances relating to the achievement of a property or personal benefit before a court ruling on adoption or by circumvention of such proceedings and the application of other legal institutions leading to the same effect. These behaviours are highly harmful and effective fight against them is not possible under the instruments of family and administrative law. According to the developer, there are two forms of adoption that should be considered socially harmful and therefore illegal within the meaning of criminal law. The first one can be considered to be the conduct of adoption in a bad faith, i.e. the procedure laid down by the legislator for the acquisition of parental authority by a person who is not his biological parent. The second form of illegal adoption is to do so without adopting when the perpetrator uses other legal institutions to achieve the effect of adoption, e.g. fictitious recognition of the child by a non-biological father or the surrender of parental rights by the mother for the purpose of such adoption by another person. Therefore, it is necessary to criminalise these behaviours by adding after Article. 211a § 1 Penal Code § 2 and 3 stating that the same penalty is imposed, who, being a person who has parental authority over a child, consents to the adoption of that child by another person: 1. in order to obtain a property or personal advantage, concealing this fact before the court ruling in the adoption proceedings, 2) skipping the adoption procedure. Added § 3 has the following wording: The same penalty shall be imposed on the person who consents to the adoption of the child under the conditions referred to in paragraph 2. Vacatio legis on the entry into force of this law is 14 days from the date of the announcement. High Izbo! I'm asking for the support of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u29	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. [[I'm here.]] There it is. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Penal Code Act. These are prints 3665 and 3801. Of course, we agree with the purpose of the bill, which is to criminalise illegal or to circumvent the right to adopt children. Applicable Article 211a The Penal Code does not sufficiently protect children from the threat of getting into the wrong hands, since it provides for criminal liability only for the organisation of illegal adoptions on a large scale. This social problem has increased in recent years. The homes for single children are even alert to the existence of a grey adoption zone. It is estimated that in Poland it can reach around 2 thousand. cases of trafficking in children. We understand, of course, on the one hand, the enormous desire to have children, even desperation in this respect of many families, but, on the other hand, we must be aware of the danger of the safety of many children, in many aspects of life, psychological and legal. In other words, it is a socially important, moving and shocking issue, both at the same time and requiring Parliament's intervention. The Law and Justice Club therefore supports the work on this law from the outset and agrees with the changes adopted during the committee's work. At the same time, I would like to present, on behalf of the club, an additional amendment which aims to clarify the rules relating to criminal liability provided for in the proposed law on withholding in the process of adopting the objective of acting as a party to this procedure in the form of a property or personal advantage. Mrs. Marshal! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club of course supports further work on this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Coalition Polska I would like to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act contained in prints no. 3665 and 3801. As an introduction to the passing term of the Sejm, it must be stated that the substantive criminal law, the local law of the trial were subject to too many changes. Often thoughtless amendments forced further changes, which resulted in the inflation of law in this area. I hope that in the future 9th term of the Polish Parliament, criminal law will have greater stability, and the legislative process will not cause controversy among the experts of the law coming from the country, as well as that these controversys will not spread throughout the world. In the contested bill, the government has set itself the objective of penalising illegal or circumvention children's adoption rights. The current legal arrangements do not sufficiently protect children from taking actual care of them by the wrong people. Criminal liability today only threatens the organisation of large-scale illegal adoptions. This dangerous phenomenon has expanded to such an extent that state centers dealing with finding families for single children alert about the existence in Poland of a certain grey adoption zone. On the Internet you can easily find announcements of women who offer the birth of a child and hand it over right after adoption. According to estimates in Poland it can reach up to 2 000 per year. cases of child trafficking at ca. 3 000 legal adoptions. The confirmation, it seems, was to present this problem in several media materials. According to the provisions of the draft law, an illegal adoption takes place when the perpetrator surrenders or adopts the child for adoption in order to obtain a personal or property benefit and conceals that fact before the court in the adoption proceedings. The point is that the court does not know that the parties have reached an agreement on the benefit of biological parents and keep it secret from the court so that it can be felt that their aim is only the welfare of the child. If the court knows about this agreement, it may take the right decision and, as a rule, refuse to adopt as requested. However, it is not necessary to punish the mere surrender or adoption of the child in order to achieve a personal or property benefit, as it may turn out that despite the handover of small gratification, e.g. a special gift, the child's well-being will not suffer, and the accepters are trustworthy persons. The court must know and decide to adopt, given this fact. Another form of illegal adoption is the situation where the perpetrator uses other legal institutions to achieve the effect of adoption, e.g. Fictitious recognition of the child and giving up parental rights by the mother. It is possible to agree with the criminalisation of the surrender or adoption of the child without adopting the adoption procedure, but to object to the inclusion in that provision of any such accident where the perpetrator has not acted in order to obtain a financial advantage, since it is in fact an act intended to achieve the same effect to which the behaviour described in point 1 of the proposed Article is intended. 211a § 2nd Penal Code. The explanatory memorandum of the bill explicitly stresses that the second form of illegal adoption is to do so without adopting, i.e. where the perpetrators use other legal institutions to achieve the effect of adoption, e.g. Fictitious recognition of the child and giving up parental rights by the mother. This form of conduct should also be criminalised if the perpetrator acts to achieve a property or personal benefit. In addition, the reservation raises the criminal risk provided for in the proposed Article. 211a § 2 of the Code, which is identical to the sanction in § 1 concerning the handling of illegal adoption in order to achieve a property benefit, i.e. the sentence of imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. The procedure for organising illegal adoptions is definitely a dangerous phenomenon. By the way, it should also be noted that the number of adoptions in Poland, which has remained at a similar level in recent years, has unfortunately been steadily decreasing for several years. As compared to 2015, the level of adoption fell and in 2018 the drop was almost 21%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a worrying phenomenon and not included in the government's family policy in recent years. Despite some reservations, the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland is in favour of continuing its work on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor or ask a question? If not, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall refer this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws (prints No 3667 and 3766). I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u34	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to present a report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws, print No 3667. This draft law amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws aims to introduce new rules for the remuneration of researchers employed in the Polish Academy of Sciences units. The aim of the proposed solutions is to introduce the way in which employees employed in PAS units are remunerated to what is the case in other public universities. The aim is to align the remuneration of researchers employed in PAS units with the remuneration of academic staff employed in academic positions in public schools. The draft law introduces a levelling of the status of scientific staff, including those employed in the Polish Academy of Sciences, certain employees employed at the International Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology in Warsaw, research institutes and the Research Network of Łukasiewicz in carrying out the duties of scientific staff, which is a creative activity of an individual character referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1 of the Act of 4 February 1994 on copyright and related rights. Dear Marshal! High Commission! I would like to say that this proposal has been very positively assessed by the committee and that no amendments have been tabled to it at first reading. So thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u35	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws, print no. 3667 and 3766. Until today, the functioning of the Polish Academy of Sciences is regulated by the Act of 30 April 2010. Her art. 86 provides that the Minister responsible for higher education and science by regulation sets out the detailed financing and financial management of the academy and its institutes and how they are to be cleared. The entry into force of the Law on Higher Education and Science of 20 July 2018 results in an increase in the distribution of income of researchers depending on the institutions employing them. The planned economic development through innovation requires an increase in the funding of the scientific sphere and the appreciation of scientific workers. However, Polish scientists who are valued for their achievements abroad, often quoted in the foreign professional press, are rewarded in a way that does not take into account their knowledge and achievements. Law 2.0 has resulted in an increase in salaries in higher education. In the Institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the wages of scientific workers have become relatively lower. The law we are considering today is intended to prevent wage spread to the detriment of the employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences, establishing the relationship between the level of wages as follows: monthly basic salary in the science unit of the Polish Academy of Sciences may not be less than 50% the remuneration laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science. The minimum of this salary for the professor shall be not less than 100% , for the professor of the institute - not less than 83% , for an aide - not less than 73% that salary. The amount of the professor's minimum remuneration should be a reference point when determining the remuneration of other scientific staff. This is a similar solution to that adopted in the Law of 20 July 2018 for university staff. Another issue regulated by the law under consideration is to ensure that PAS researchers have the right to apply as beneficial as those of academic teachers in tax regulations. The second amendment provides, in particular, that the performance of the duties of a scientific worker is a creative activity of an individual nature as referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1 of the Act of 4 February 1994 on copyright and related rights. Similarly, the Act introduces the Act of 26 June 1997 on the International Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology in Warsaw, the Act of 30 April 2010 on research institutes and the Act of 21 February 2019 on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. Representatives of the scientific community present at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, as well as organisations and institutions participating in the consultation on this law, did not raise objections to it. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government bill amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u37	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u38	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws, prints no. 3667 and 3766. The aim of the proposed law is, firstly, to regulate the minimum remuneration of employees of scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences and, secondly, to clarify doubts as to the applicability of increased, 50% costs of obtaining revenue by the Polish Academy of Sciences' scientific staff and staff performing tasks related to carrying out scientific activities in certain other entities of the higher education and science system. The project introduces regulations on the minimum remuneration of employees of scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences similar to those of academic teachers in public universities. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, aiming at the scientific community's proposal to align the status of scientific staff employed in the research units of the Polish Academy of Sciences with the status of academic teachers employed in public universities, the project proposed adding an article to the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences. 91a, according to which the monthly basic salary of a staff member of a scientific research unit of the Polish Academy of Sciences will remain in a legally defined relation to the remuneration of a professor of public higher education, as determined by the regulations implementing the Law on Higher Education and Science. The proposed rules are intended to guarantee a stable remuneration for PAS scientists, which is to stop the drain of scientific workers and maintain a high level of scientific PAS. The project also includes a regulation that influences the calculation of revenue costs, in the case of personal income tax, on the remuneration of employees performing tasks related to scientific activity in certain entities of the higher education and science system. In order to align the status of scientific staff employed in the research units of the Polish Academy of Sciences with the status of academic teachers, it is also proposed to add to the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences similar regulation to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7 Laws on Higher Education and Science contained in the proposed Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences, which explicitly states that the performance of the duties of a scientific staff member constitutes an activity of an individual nature referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1 Act of 4 February 1994 on copyright and related rights. The proposed amendments aim to align the status of designated academics, whose work is individual and creative, with that of those employed as academic teachers. The proposed regulation should allow the scientific staff of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the scientific staff of other entities listed in the proposed law to benefit equally from higher, 50% cost of income, in the case of personal income tax, on salaries from employment relationships. Or rather, similar to the regulation of the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7 Laws on Higher Education and Science - dispel The project deserves a positive assessment. It must be stressed that it solves important in the field of science [[♪ The bell ♪]] problems that also include social aspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas. There isn't. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this matter? If not, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Education Law (prints No 3721 and 3776). I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u40	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present the report of the joint committees: the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Education. The project is included in print No 3721. The joint committees at their meeting on 29 August carried out their first reading and examined the bill. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law in print no 3721. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u41	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to ask for the floor, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u42	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Senate draft law amending the Education Law Act, print No 3721. The draft law amending the Law on Education concerns the introduction of provisions laying down the rules for determining the cost of travel of a child and a parent returned to parents - or to other entitled persons - who carry children, young people and pupils with disabilities to the nearest kindergarten, pre-school or other forms of pre-school education, school or re-education centre. The addressees of the proposed regulation are families raising children with disabilities, to which the concept of families in difficulty relates. The proposed amendment solves the problem for local governments to determine the amount of reimbursement of the cost of travelling for pupils with disabilities and their carers to educational establishments. The draft adapts the system of rights to the Constitutional Tribunal's order of 17 October 2017 indicating the appropriateness of legislative action to regulate these issues. The Act provides that it is up to the municipality to provide disabled children with free transport and care during transport to the nearest kindergarten or school or to pay back the costs of the child's journey and the carer under the conditions laid down in the agreement concluded between the governor, mayor, city president and parents or carers, if the transport is provided by parents or carers. By order of the order, the authorities set out the model of contracts to be paid back to parents or carers. As a result, the costs of journeys in individual municipalities were reimbursed at different levels, sometimes far from those which were incurred in a realistic way. The senate submission provides for criteria for determining the rates of reimbursement of the child's and the carer's travel costs. The introduction of country-wide criteria on the basis of which a local government unit will be required to calculate the amount reimbursed to parents or carers in relation to the costs it incurs when delivering a disabled child to school will avoid situations where local authorities reimburse expenditure on this basis in amounts which do not provide reimbursement of the costs actually incurred. The proposal introduces a detailed principle for calculating these costs. The rules, as they have so far, will also cover the reimbursement of travel expenses for children and pupils with disabilities who live more than 3 km or 4 km from the school. They are also covered by the obligation to transport by the municipality with the possibility of its contractual transfer to carers. The submission was consulted extensively and received a positive opinion from the Council of Ministers. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice positively opinions the Senate draft law on amending the Education Law Act in print No 3721. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of the Marshal, I am making a few more amendments to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u43	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a curiosity that we are gathering here after the elections and we are debating laws on which the ruling party was four years old. It is a good habit that if a new parliament is elected, the government and the old Sejm refrain from making any decisions, leaving these decisions to the newly elected Members and the newly constituted government. Of course, you also had to break this custom of the state as many of the customs that prevailed in this House. As the Civic Coalition, we do not comment on the project that you have submitted, but we have comments on the procedure for proceeding on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u45	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. There isn't. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come to this point or ask a question? If not, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, the Committee on Social and Family Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 46 hours 10 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on the acquisition of a professional title in the areas applicable to health care (prints 3719 and 3787). I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health a report by the committee on the draft law amending the Law on the acquisition of the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care, the printing of the 8th term Sejm No. 3719. The Act is a government submission of 23 July 2019. The Health Commission examined this draft law at its September meeting and adopted it without amendment. The bill submitted contains only two articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 1 of the Act shall be repealed. 2. The repealed provision provides that the title of health professional laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. 46 (1) of the amended law can be obtained either after completion of post-graduate specialization training in the field concerned or after recognition of the scientific or professional achievements in the field of health care as equivalent to specialisation. Abolished lips. Article 2 1 does not apply to persons engaged in medical professions for which the rules for obtaining a professional title are laid down in the relevant rules governing the pursuit of those professions. The amended law will allow persons performing medical professions, i.e. doctors, nurses, diagnostics, physiotherapists and others, obtain the title of specialist in areas applicable to health care, which is relevant when the legal regulations for these specialisations do not indicate a specific field or where there are no bodies accredited to carry out specialization training. Thus, a doctor will be able to specialise or have a recognised academic or professional record and obtain a title as a specialist in the field of health care, for example, despite the regulation on obtaining specializations of doctors and dentists. in the field of psychosexology or psychotherapy of children and adolescents, although there is no such field of specialisation in the catalogue of fields defined for the specialisation of doctors and dentists. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the proposed law is foreseen to enter into force on the day following the date of publication. After considering the draft law and having held a brief discussion, the Commission decided that it would accept the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u47	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the law on obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care, print No 3719. At first, I would like to introduce you to the merits. The point is that the draft law amending the Law on the acquisition of the title of a specialist in the fields applicable to health protection, such a printing, as I said earlier, introduces an amendment to the existing Act of 24 February 2017 consisting in repealing paragraph. Article 2 1 which provides that this law does not apply to persons engaged in medical professions for which the principle of obtaining a professional title is laid down in other provisions which govern it. The repeal of this provision is very important because it will enable people performing a wide-spectrum medical profession, i.e. to doctors, nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics, to specialise in the field defined by that law in accordance with the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 13 June 2017. In short, I would like to say that this will be of great benefit in the context of a strategy for the development of the health system, which should take into account actions aimed at developing health professionals and increasing their numbers. When the number is relatively small, it is possible to maintain the quality of health care at the right level as a result of increasing the skills of this medical staff, i.e. the aim is to prepare people in the health care system to perform tasks in medical establishments and not only. The amendment of the Act will benefit medical professionals and potential candidates who will perform these professions, as well as graduates, and will enable the professional capacity of medical workers to be increased, will contribute to improving the quality of care and to increasing the availability of certain benefits and, consequently, to increasing the quality of life of the subjects. The Law and Justice Club approves the bill submitted and requests it to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u49	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mrs Alicja Chybicka to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Law on obtaining specialist titles in the areas applicable to health protection. The bill submitted amends the Act of 24 February 2017 on obtaining the title of specialist in the fields applicable to health care, Dz. U. z 2019 poz. 786. The change is short and contains two articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: paragraph 1 is 2 and Article 2 thereof. 2 provides that the law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. This change allows for a professional title to be obtained by professionals for whom the rules for obtaining a professional title are laid down by the rules governing the pursuit of these professions. It's about doctors, nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists and laboratory diagnostics. This is relevant in cases where they do not have the area indicated or there is no body accredited to carry out specialization training. This means, in other words, the introduction of a short path, i.e. a given delict will be able to become specialized after recognition of scientific or professional achievements, e.g. in the field of psychosexuality, psychotherapy of children and young people, where there is no such field of specialisation in the catalogue of areas defined in the case of specialization of doctors and dentists. From the point of view of the interest of patients, on the one hand, increased access to specialists should be assessed positively, including. in the field of child psychotherapy and psychosexuality, there is, however, concern about the quality of such an educated specialist, and perhaps in an unaccredited institution and on terms other than those previously in force. The shortening of the time of medical specialisation is likely not to have a positive effect on the quality of the profession. However, given the well-being of the sick and the lack of staff as regards the specialisations I mentioned earlier, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u51	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at this point again? If not, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 13. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 05 hrs. 13]] I'm reopening the session. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Road Traffic Law, print No 3834. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Public Finance has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 3839. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety (Prints 3713 and 3737). I ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety, print No 3713. The first reading and examination of the project took place at the meeting of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on 8 August 2019. The aim of the project is to implement into the Polish legal order the requirements of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with static ballast waters and sediments, adopted in London on 13 February 2004, called the Ballast Convention. The process of ratification of the ballast convention is carried out in parallel with the work on this law in such a way that ballast water requirements can be applied in Polish maritime areas since 2020. The introduction of the provisions of this Act will contribute to the protection of the marine environment of part of the Baltic Sea against the introduction and spread of harmful alien species and pathogens as a result of ballast operations on ships. The new rules will also contribute to the protection of human health, property and resources. The new rules will apply to shipowners in international shipping, ship repair yards, classification societies and maritime administrations, as well as, to a lesser extent, environmental protection and health inspection bodies. In addition to issues related to the ballast convention to ensure compliance of Polish legislation with international rules, the project also complements the provisions concerning the requirements of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships in the collection and transmission of fuel consumption data. In order to ensure consistency of national maritime legislation, the Act also introduces a second amendment to the Law of 18 August 2011 on maritime safety by adding the ballast convention to the list of international agreements the provisions of which apply in the context of the provisions on safe shipping. During the committee's work, amendments of an editorial and legislative nature were adopted by the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I recommend the adoption of this draft Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u53	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Sylvester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. As I have put forward the position of the committee as rapporteur here, we, too, as a parliamentary club, believe that this ratification must be carried out, we need to adopt a law amending the law, because it will have a profound impact on safety, environmental protection in our territorial waters, it will contribute to security, it is needed, we need to adopt this legislation. So that as our club we recommend adopting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u55	Thank you very much. We received speeches on behalf of the Civic Coalition and the Polish People's Party in writing. Are there any questions? No questions. The list of Members in the vote has thus been exhausted. No one's acting on behalf of... Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u56	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I am pleased to present to the High House the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. The current national environmental legislation treats the essential elements of the amended law in a general way. It should therefore be concluded that the amended act is not only important for the protection of marine waters, but also takes into account the requests and the list of deficiencies identified in the report of the European Agency for Maritime Affairs. Maritime safety, which were included in the report after the visit of representatives of the agencies in Poland last year. As a result of the work of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, in other countries of the European Union the issues arising directly from the International Convention on Control and Management with static ballast waters and sediments have already been addressed. I will refrain from quoting the detailed arrangements contained in the revised law for the prevention of marine pollution by ships. However, I will stress the importance of the amendments adopted in the draft law on issues related to the fight against threats and pollution in port waters. Any solution for water protection should be adopted and implemented in practice. Given the importance of regulations for environmental protection and the report presented by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the work on amending the Act, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition recommends that the High House adopt the report of the committee and adopt a draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u57	Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will vote in favour of the drafts of both laws. The proposed amendments are a necessary harmonisation and alignment of Polish legislation with EU and international legislation on the protection of marine waters. We agree with the intention that in times of progressive civilization, each country must place a great deal of emphasis on effective environmental protection in its own internal legislation, not only in relation to more general international rules. According to the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Committee (HELCOM), pollution of the Baltic Sea is up to 40% due to the day-to-day operation of ships. However, the provisions of international law protecting water have not yet been sufficiently translated into Polish legislation. In addition, the records focused mainly on prevention, i.e. pollution prevention, insufficiently regulated control and guarantee mechanisms. The projects are implemented in the Polish legal order by the requirements of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with static ballast waters and sediments, and clearly define the obligations of ship owners, ports and entities responsible for the cleaning of tanks. To put it simply, after changes to Polish services, it will be easier to control both ships or ports and to punish for violations of regulations concerning the protection of marine waters both administratively and by civil law and criminal law. Environmental degradation is a global problem. The marine environment is a common good and therefore requires a coherent system of protection. The amendments we are discussing are not only comprehensive but also in line with the objectives of the Baltic Action Plan and the Water Framework Directive for the protection of the Baltic Sea. Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland sees the need to adopt and vote for both draft laws. Finally, however, it is worth noting that the entry into force of the rules does not equal respect and enforcement. Not so long ago, we adopted a similar law protecting the atmosphere from pollution caused by the operation of ships, but we do not know its exact environmental impact. We therefore call for the changes to be enforced by the Polish State in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u58	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Road Traffic Law, print No 3834. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 54 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic (prints 3828 and 3834). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure a report on the Government's draft amendment to the Road Traffic Law in print No 3828. I would like to begin by expressing my great satisfaction that the government initiative regulates a very important aspect of road safety, improving the effectiveness of the arrival of emergency services at places where a road accident or a road accident occurred. On behalf of the committee that has been working on this proposal today, I would like to recall the key objectives of the applicants for this regulation. Firstly, this objective is to provide for a shorter passage time for rescue services to take rescue action in the event of a road accident and, consequently, to increase the chance of survival or less harm to the health of victims of an accident. Of course, there's something to work on. This is concrete today because of the number of deaths. Last year, there were 2862 fatalities and almost 11,000, unfortunately, seriously injured. This is a call for solidarity with victims of accidents in the area of first and foremost improvement, as I said a moment earlier, the time for rescue services to reach the victims on high-speed roads. I would draw attention, as a parliamentarian from the Silesian Voivodeship, to the particular importance of this regulation on sections of even highways A4 or A1 in such agglomerations as the agglomeration of Upper Silesia, such as the agglomeration of Wrocław, Warsaw, etc. Here, action to improve the post-accident care emergency area is one of the key areas of work, efforts to improve road safety. As the National Road Safety Council points out, this is just as important as road construction or traffic surveillance. Secondly, the purpose of this regulation is to reduce the length of road congestion and, consequently, to ensure more smooth and safe traffic on the road in the event of a lane change manoeuvre on the road with at least two lanes in one direction when one of the lanes ends and disappears. Of course, such a situation on the road may result in some aggressive, little cultural behaviour among road users. We do not want such phenomena as we encounter to be permanent and to meet philosophy, so that as drivers of vehicles we simply behave as participants of the movement, more culturally, more friendly, so that we like each other more. In Poland, with regard to the current regulation in the Law on Road Traffic, the behaviour of road users in the case of transit of a privileged vehicle is governed by Article. 9 of this law, which has already had more than twenty years of life, was passed on 20 June 1997. And if, from the very formulation of the obligation currently laid down in Article, 9 a request can be made for an obligation to create such an escape corridor, so-called. The corridor of life, however, still seems too vague, therefore this expected initiative of the government and the presentation of this amendment to the High House. The current provision does not explicitly define the obligation, and even more so the way in which emergency corridors are created, and its application is still the result of only measures promoting and raising awareness of society. Unfortunately, examples from Polish roads - after all, we often have the opportunity to obtain various information, examples, unfortunately, negative, like blocking the passage of a privileged vehicle - show that not all drivers, despite their actions, are able to behave properly when emergency services are trying to access the location of the road accident. The lack of clear access for drivers makes the arrival time of the rescue services more and more prolonged in the event of a road accident or other incident, and it is therefore necessary to introduce rules precisely specifying the requirements for drivers in such cases in order to achieve greater safety and to ensure that assistance can be reached in the areas of road accidents as soon as possible without causing any additional risk on the road. This is a practical dimension, one can say, this solidarity with the victims of road accidents, which will be received very positively by the multi-million-dollar motorists community in Poland. The second proposed change I mentioned earlier, i.e. the so-called. Riding a zipper, that's what I call it. a method that provides guidance on the behaviour of driving vehicles in the event of access to a narrow road with at least two lanes in one direction, where at least one of these lanes, e.g. It's over, it's gone. The correct application of vehicles to the obligation set out in the proposal to amend the Act ensures that vehicles can move smoothly on road sections with high traffic or congestion caused by road congestion, e.g. a traffic incident. Today, on the one hand, the High Commission has amended certain provisions in cooperation with the Legislative Office and introduced a new editorial of the article. 2, when it comes to the entry into force of this law. Namely, we propose that this law enter into force 21 days after the date of publication. So much for me. As regards the way of voting of the high committee, I would like to inform the High House that the draft was adopted unanimously and I very much hope that at this meeting of the High Chamber, this project will also be approved by millions of Polish road users, which is needed for each of us to ensure better access to victims of accidents, saving lives and the health of victims, in the event of such events where other participants in the movement can be more precise, facilitating the arrival of services, such as police, fire department or emergency service, be on the road. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u60	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Paul will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to make a statement on the draft amendment to the Road Traffic Law Act on the creation of the so-called. corridors of life and driving to the so-called. Slider. The draft provides for amendments to the Act of 20 June 1997 on Road Traffic Law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 the content so far is marked as paragraph. 1 and paragraph 1 is added. from 2 to 4, informing: on the road with two lanes in the same direction, the driver of the vehicle, who moves in the left lane, is obliged to travel as close as possible to the left edge of the lane. Similarly, the driver of the vehicle on the right lane is obliged to travel as close as possible to the right edge. Thus, in the free space between them is formed the so-called. The corridor of life. On the road with more than two lanes of traffic in the same direction, the driving vehicle moving on the extreme left lane shall be obliged to move from the road of the privileged vehicle as close as possible to the left edge of the lane and the driving vehicles moving on the other lanes shall be obliged to move from the road of the privileged vehicle as close as possible to the right edge of the lane. Only privileged vehicles can use the corridor of life. The driver of the vehicle may continue to drive on the previously occupied lane after passing the privileged vehicle. A rule in the mouth. 3 shall not apply to vehicles of road managers or road assistance involved in rescue operations. In addition, Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Article 22 (2) (b) 4 says that the driver of the vehicle, when changing the occupied lane, is obliged to give priority to the vehicle driving on the lane on which he intends to enter, and to the vehicle entering the lane on the right. In addition, under conditions of significant reduction of driving speed on a road with more than one lane in the same direction, where it is not possible to continue driving by lane due to an obstacle to this lane or to its disappearance, the driver of the vehicle driving the adjacent lane shall be obliged immediately before the point of entry or the point of departure of the lane to enable the driving vehicle or one vehicle group on such a lane to switch this lane to the neighbouring lane after which it is possible to continue. In conditions where there is a significant reduction in the speed on the road with more than two lanes in the same direction where it is not possible to continue driving by two lanes due to obstacles on these lanes or their disappearance, where there is one lane between these lanes where it is possible to continue driving, the driver of the vehicle driving this lane shall be required immediately before the obstacle occurs or where the lanes disappear so that the lanes can alternately change the lane on both sides. The proposed amendments complement the existing legal regulations in Poland. They will introduce rules precisely specifying the requirements for drivers in the above mentioned cases, ensure greater safety and the possibility of getting assistance to places and road events as soon as possible without causing any additional risk on the road, increase the chance of survival or less damage to the health of victims of such an event, and facilitate the passage of other privileged vehicles. It should be stressed that Member States, among others. such as Austria, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark and Greece have adopted legislation obliging drivers in the above mentioned situations to take concrete action to create a passable lane and for failing to comply with it, as well as the difficulties and misuse or abuse of such a corridor have introduced severe criminal sanctions. The Member States of the European Union, such as Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Germany, Slovakia and Slovenia, have adopted legislation requiring drivers in such situations to take concrete action in the form of a lane change method. Slider. It should be noted that studies of attitudes and social opinions regarding road safety indicated that a large majority of Poles strongly support the introduction to road use so-called. the corridors of life and the use of the method of driving on the so-called Slider. In conclusion, the proposed changes are well founded and fully meet the expectations of society. In view of the above, Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcome the draft amendment to the Law of 20 June 1997 on Road Traffic in the field of Art. 9 and Article 9 22. Compiled project [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will certainly support unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u62	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Very often it is that seconds save lives, very often it is that minutes run away, and vehicles that provide assistance in the event of road accidents, and in particular traffic accidents, cannot reach the scene, because traffic jams are on the road and drivers have no habit of creating a place for rescue vehicles. That is why it is good that there is a law that clearly and unambiguously clarifies how the drivers of vehicles should behave, how they have to set up - they must, which is worth highlighting - vehicles to create this convenient passage for rescuers. There is no doubt - no one at the committee's meeting this morning had any comments on the draft submitted - that these provisions deserve support. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I also declare that we will support the rules on the corridor of life. We also support this change, which concerns the vacathio legis, so as to make it clear that it is 21 days. Nor do we have any comments on these corrections which have clarified the language of the legal text. We also support this second change, which concerns the slider. The slider will make life easier for all of us, the slider will make us calmer, that we will not treat other road users like some unwanted competitors, rivals to a place on the road. It seems that these regulations will significantly improve culture and thus also safety on Polish roads. We support these changes. This law seems to have the unanimous support of all Members. It's such a good forecast at the end of this term before the opening of another one. And finally, the roll call. In order to implement these rules quickly, it is necessary to work together, to work together with educational workers, because we must inculcate knowledge of these changes in the youngest road participants during bike card training during the lessons that we devote to the rules of road traffic. It's a task for education, it's a task for NGOs, but it's also a task for all entrepreneurs who run driving training schools or improve their driving skills. Call: do everything you can to get these regulations to the awareness of the drivers as soon as possible, and then life will be more enjoyable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u64	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland believes that the government's draft law amending the Traffic Law is a set of records prepared at the right time and very needed at the present stage of motorization development, even if we look at it in terms of safety and the need to provide assistance. Both in one aspect of the establishment of the corridors of life and in the other, we believe that the records are clear and, as my previous speakers and Mr President as rapporteur have already pointed out, it is only necessary to ensure that they are implemented as soon as possible so that they can be used in road traffic and in everyday life. So that we believe that legislative work should continue. We will support in the vote the adoption of this amendment to the law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The 8th term of office of our Parliament is coming to an end. Since I will not be able to participate in the work of the Sejm during the next one, I would like to thank you warmly for these four years, for your cooperation, cooperation and for your wish for the entire Sejm Bureau. I wish, first and foremost, the High House and the Council of Ministers health, the development of good practices and the greatest possible success in their personal lives for everyone and for each individual. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u66	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15. [[No, I'm not at that point.]] No. Okay, thank you very much. Are there any questions to this point? There isn't. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: And the government side?]] Please, if the government wants to appear. Since there were no questions, I thought there was no need, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u67	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I will not take much time, but I would like to thank all parliamentary clubs, all parliamentarians, both during the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, and now they have expressed positive opinions on the solutions we are proposing, i.e. the creation of rules that define how drivers should behave when it comes to creating a corridor of life, but also how they should act in situations where zipper riding is necessary. Thank you very much for the discussion in the plenary room. These are indeed solutions, regulations that many road safety groups are waiting for. The National Road Safety Council knows this very well. Medical services and all services that are privileged have advocated the introduction of such principles and the creation of such behaviours among drivers, which will enable them to reach the victims quickly and efficiently. In some situations, we have a huge problem with this. We know that when it comes to human health and life when it comes to victims of road accidents, every second matters. The sooner we get to the scene, the sooner the professionals can help. Ladies and gentlemen! We would like to present negative behaviours that we saw on Polish roads. We've got a film prepared to show you where it happened. There's an ambulance. Medical services, emergency services that reach the scene, face such obstacles. Thanks to these regulations, we want not only to create correctly rules on road behaviour, but also to promote, educate and, as mentioned here, from the earliest years we have been allergic to Polish society, future drivers, on issues of how properly we behave while driving. The National Road Safety Council has prepared a special film that shows proper behaviour when it comes to creating a corridor of life. We promote this video on social media and other media. Thank you to all those who make it available, who pass on this film. We've also prepared it now, here. I'm gonna need a lineup. Thank you very much. There's also a second version of this movie. One where we choose that this corridor of life is not created. Then the life of this man who is injured in an accident cannot be saved. We're trying to get this movie excited. We want him to think and contribute to shaping the right, right attitudes when it comes to creating corridors of life. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to these changes, which I hope will be adopted by the High House on this agenda. At the hands of the Director of the Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council, Mr Romik, I thank you for your preparation, discussion on this subject and for your efficiency. Finally, Minister Adamczyk's declaration, which will also be filled out, that issues relating to the corridor of life and zipper rides will appear in the database of questions asked to candidates for drivers during the driving test. So that not only in a prescriptive way, not only in a law, not only in an educational way to promote such behaviour, but in order for every driver who passes the test to know the rules, he must know how to apply them. How to use them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u68	Thank you very much. It was Minister Rafał Weber on behalf of the government. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of previous price agreements (prints 3788 and 3837). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of previous price agreements, print No 3788. At its 86th meeting of 11 September 2019, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. After considering the above draft law, the Public Finance Commission, following the adoption of seven parliamentary amendments at its meeting on 14 October 2019, i.e. yesterday, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u70	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Andrzej Costowniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of previous price agreements in print No 3788. Double taxation of profits in different countries has a negative impact on international economic activity and leads to a deterioration of the business conditions and economic efficiency of the projects, thereby creating barriers to development in the common market. There is a need to support a mechanism that will increase efficiency and efficiency in resolving disputes arising from double taxation problems in the European Union. The lack of uniformity in dispute resolution procedures, including at EU level, in the context of progressive globalisation, changing tax rules, quantitative growth and valuable cross-border economic operations, may raise concerns about additional negative consequences in which procedures protecting taxpayers in the face of double taxation would be blocked, chronic or in fact would not lead to a definitive settlement of the issues at issue. The additional objective of the project is to adapt the functioning of the National Tax Administration bodies to the needs of entrepreneurs, in particular by creating an appropriate system of handling and supporting entrepreneurs in the proper performance of tax obligations. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u72	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Civic Platform, Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of prior price agreements. The draft law introduces a new mechanism to ensure uniform rules for the settlement of disputes concerning double taxation of profits within the European Union. Double taxation is understood as imposing taxes by two or more Member States of the European Union falling within the scope of international agreements in respect of the same income or property where this leads to an increase in tax obligations or an additional tax burden. Double taxation of profits in different countries has a negative impact on international economic activity and leads to a deterioration of the business conditions and economic efficiency of the projects, thereby creating barriers to development in the common market. The lack of uniformity in dispute resolution procedures, including at EU level, in the context of progressive globalisation is a negative phenomenon. The new mechanism to ensure the harmonisation of dispute resolution rules in this respect is set out in the Council Directive of 10 October 2017 on mechanisms for resolving disputes concerning double taxation in the European Union. The Directive obliges all Member States to introduce the provisions necessary for its implementation. This problem, both concerning double taxation of profits and prior pricing arrangements, requires regulation. However, it should be pointed out that the bill is complicated, written in a difficult language and is intended to serve businesses and tax authorities, so it should be clear and understandable. In particular, there is uncertainty about a vague, too general provision for independent experts, namely whether to clarify who can be an independent expert and what requirements must be met. There is much more such general provisions, but the government at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, with the exception of the directive, defended the position that aimed at clarifying these provisions. It is therefore necessary, in our view, to constantly monitor the operation of the law in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, now on behalf of the Polish People's Party Members' Club of the Polish People's Party. Please. There's no envoy. Questions aren't reported either. Does anyone from the government want to speak? The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act (prints 3813 and 3839). I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The presented print project 3813 is extremely important. The project envisages a 50% reduction in the excise duty rate. Therefore, during the discussions at the meeting of the finance committee, the opinions were positive and the votes fully accepting the draft submitted. This solution is consistent with the solution for electric, zero-emission vehicles. This is, in effect, complementary to making these vehicles more attractive, which have a moderate, cost-effective impact on the environment. There is also a need for such impulses even to promote such solutions or to encourage them to actually become a fashion for moving on to such vehicles. Of course, I think that this is also a good impulse for all entrepreneurs and companies who are involved in this field, and we know that in Poland, as far as the automotive industry and all environmentally beneficial solutions are concerned, it is very strong. This project is very expected. It is appropriate to thank the Members of the applicants - Mr Ireneusz Gaina is here - who have taken this very valuable initiative. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 14 October 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u76	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u77	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the parliamentary draft excise tax law, print No 3813. The Parliamentary draft law is part of the obligation to develop a national framework for the development of alternative fuels infrastructure under Directive 2014/94 of the European Union. The document sets targets for infrastructure for charging electric vehicles, filling vehicles with natural gas and bunkering vessels with natural gas. The Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels introduced a catalogue of zero- and low-carbon vehicles directly related to the use of infrastructure prepared for these fuels, including: electric, hybrid, hydrogen-powered and natural gas-powered vehicles. The hybrid vehicle is the most accessible among these vehicles. The existing instruments in this area introduced by the electromobility Act provided for temporary exemption from excise duty for hybrid vehicles. The provisions of this draft law complement this instrument and are introduced in order to accelerate the desired market changes and to adapt measures to the characteristics of hybrid technology. The new provisions include amendments to the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008, introducing a 50% reduction in the rate of this tax for hybrid vehicles. This change should improve the use of low-carbon vehicles. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u78	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition, Mr Piotr Cieślinski. There's no envoy. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. There's no envoy, either. No one signed up for questions. The government won't speak. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 49 hours 13 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 6 June 1997. Penal Code (Print No 3751). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Olgierd Pankiewicz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u79	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment is to prohibit the public approval and promotion of sexual activity of minors. The proposed provision complements the existing Article. 200b of the Penal Code, which, as it stands, prohibits the promotion and approval of paedophiles. Why should the proposed amendment be introduced? Crime studies and therapists' research point to two directions for paedophile criminals: first, for the child's environment, second, for the victim himself. The perpetrators tame the surroundings of the child, trying to cross borders, to put the guard down. At the same time, they affect the child itself, breaking down slowly natural barriers of shame, fear, disgust. If there's someone around the baby who's going to set the line clearly, the baby can be rescued. If there's no such person, the paedophile's going after his victim. The baby's too weak to defend itself. The same pattern of action, which is used to break barriers to a specific victim or a specific environment, is used for ideological impact on society. On the one hand, there are praises and justifications for paedophile behavior, on the other hand, sexual behavior of children and young people is praised. They're taught to talk about sex, to consent, to negotiate sexual relations. In 2009, the legislator correctly identified this phenomenon and introduced it in the article. 200b Criminal Code banning the promotion of paedophile behaviour. This protects society from ideas that can encourage paedophiles to step out of the shadows and put social resistance to sleep. However, the gap in this provision is that the other side of the phenomenon is not taken into account. Pedophile ideology also aims to change behavioral standards among children and to change the social perception of the child. Promoting sex among minors, encouraging them to express their alleged sexual needs to negotiate sexual relations, gives children the characteristics of the perfect victim of paedophile crimes. I would like to give some examples of this new variety of so-called. a positive pedophilia, a new variation of a phenomenon which unfortunately cannot be covered by the current provision, does not take into account. Firstly, in one of Silesian cities in the public building last year, an open exhibition of painting depicting naked children posed as having a sexual character was organized. Secondly, in online Polish-speaking portals and YouTube channels on a massive scale there are youubers who encourage children to start sexual initiation early, to experiment with sex. Third, pseudo-scientific publications have been saying for decades that children of their own free will, wanting to gain sexual experience, seek contact with paedophiles. This way of justifying paedophile crimes - that supposedly adults are seduced by spoiled children - is accompanied, unfortunately, as a disgraceful card by psychological publications for many, many years. Fourthly, finally, the so-called. standards of BZgA and WHO, standards of sexual education in Europe, which are the basis of urban social programs already implemented in Poland and which are the reference material for self-proclaimed sex educators, recommend learning practical skills of learning sexual pleasure, talking about sex, learning to agree to sex. WHO and BZgA are cut off from the effects of the implementation of these standards. The actual author of these standards: IPPF, or International Planned Parenthood Federation, is listed in the standards only as an expert. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as the child's rescue is the harsh opposition of his guardian, so the rescue for society, especially for the young generation, is the voice of the legislator, who has a duty to say: this is not the case. At the same time, it is worth remembering what one of the creators of the Polish state doctrine and legal doctrine Professor Czesław Znamierowski wrote: it is advisable to protect the good from the danger that it does not become valid. Protect things with excess, so that you do not have to defend the good from direct attack. Otherwise, having such a recognised situation, without doing anything, a constitutional obligation to protect the morality of children and to protect their safety as expressed in the article. 72 turns out to be a phrase - as beautiful as empty. If constitutional standards are ignored and social standards that protect the psychophysical development of children continue to be unpunished, the line between normal sexual behaviour and paedophile sexual behavior will be abolished and the image of the child as a sexual object will be preserved in society, the image of a sexual child. Then, in the event of such negligence, legal declarations for the protection of children will be completely illusory. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u80	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! President of the Legislative Initiative Committee. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 6 June 1997. The draft law was introduced in accordance with the provisions of the article. Paragraph 7 2, Article Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the In the draft, the current text of the article. 200b of the Penal Code is included in § 1 of the proposed provision. In § On the other hand, the behaviour of public promotion or approval of the minor's sexual intercourse has been criminalised. It was also decided to introduce two new offences at risk of imprisonment for up to 3 years. I would like to remind you that offences punishable by up to 3 years of imprisonment may, for reasons of concern or subject matter, be subject to conditional remission of proceedings - in the case of a sentence of up to 3 years of imprisonment - e.g. if the court considers that the degree of social danger of an act is negligible, the perpetrator is unpunished, there is so-called. a positive social forecast against the perpetrator. It would be wise to consider in the process whether this should not be a threat of imprisonment for up to five years. Then you wouldn't be able to apply a conditional redemption. According to the draft article. 200b §3 of the Penal Code a higher sanction would be provided if the perpetrator committed the act described above by means of mass communication, but this higher sanction This is punishment up to 3 years, because in § 1 there is punishment up to 2 years imprisonment. According to the proposed § Article 4 200b The criminal code with more severe criminal responsibility should include a person who promotes or approves sexual activity by a minor, acting in connection with the occupation, occupation or activities related to education, education, treatment or care of minors, or acting at a school or educational or care establishment. Art. 72 of the Constitution states that the Republic of Poland provides protection of the rights of the child, protection of the child against violence, cruelty, exploitation and demoralisation. The project implements one of the main principles of the Polish legal order, confirmed in the Family and Care Code and protected in parallel in the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, i.e. the principle of the protection of the child's welfare, morality and family life. It does so by protecting children from corrupting and adversely affecting their mental and social development. Experience shows that current protection is incomplete and insufficient. The bill will stop all kinds of depravors and thus strengthen the constitutional protection of children against demoralisation. The project ensures the fuller implementation of human rights at a particularly vulnerable age. It protects the children's goods and rights: to raise and care suitable for age and development, to respect their dignity and freedom from mental violence and degrading treatment, to protect their privacy and personal sensitivity. These are all constitutional values contained in the relevant articles of the Constitution. The proposed amendment of the Penal Code also fully implements the right of parents to raise their child according to their beliefs and adapt their upbringing to the degree of maturity and sensitivity of the child. The law in force recognises that parents know their children best and know best when they can be told about difficult problems and at what rate they need to be brought into adulthood. To sum up, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Law and Justice Club supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u82	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, the Citizens' Initiative Committee. High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition regarding the draft law from the Parliamentary Printing Act No 3751, i.e. citizens' draft law amending the Penal Code. The proposals propose a revision of the wording of the article. 200b, which states: "A person who publicly promotes or commends paedophile behaviour, shall be subject to fines, penalties for restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2 '. Before I move on to the substantive justification of this proposal, I would like to point out that, as a club, we consider it to be a bitch to carry out the first reading of the citizens' draft law at the last sitting of the current term of office of the Sejm. By the strength of the things present in this Chamber, the Members of this term of office, will not have the opportunity to work on this project. This project should be fully examined in the future term of office. We are therefore surprised to see that this first reading has been delayed for so long. The proposed project extends the current regulation on the promotion or approval of a minor's sexual intercourse. In view of the definition of a minor under the age of 18 in the Civil Code, it should be clearly stated that the intention of the projector is to introduce a criminalisation of the promotion or approval of sexual intercourse by a person who is 15 years of age and not 18 years of age. Actions that concern persons under the age of 15 are already criminalised in the current legal state. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we have full respect for citizens' billings. Citizens who comply with statutory criteria have the right to propose new solutions, which obviously does not mean that every project should be compatible. And that's exactly how it is with this project. Our assessment is clearly critical and we do not share the arguments put forward by the citizens' initiative. The reading of the bill, and in particular its justification, does not leave any illusions that the real intention of the designers is to ban the introduction of sexual education in Poland. As we read in the first sentence, the proposed amendment will provide legal protection for children and young people against sexual depravity and demoralization, which develops at a dangerous pace and affects thousands of youngest Poles through the so-called. sexual education. This several-page justification for the bill is filled with statements not supported by any evidence. It is de facto more a manifesto or a political statement than a substantive justification for the bill. There are no studies, no case law studies, no evaluation of the phenomenon itself, no expert opinion. Therefore, our critical assessment concerns not only the irrational proposal itself, but also the whole preparation of this project. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the proposed legislation would de facto prohibit the conduct of any information and education activities concerning sexual education or family upbringing. For example, it would be prohibited to even promote information or knowledge aimed at e.g. discouragement of contact with a minor. The projecters use the general wording "promotes or praises ', without introducing any distinctions in this respect. As the Supreme Court rightly points out in its opinion, following the dictionary of the Polish language, the promotion is also the dissemination of views, ideas or knowledge. The projectors therefore demand that sexual relations between 16 or 17 years of age in Poland should not be discussed at all. Not in a good context, not in a bad context. Neither condoning nor condemning. Not in the sense of promoting or raising, just like that. The current programming bases would need to be changed, and most of them would be banned. This is, of course, an extremely bad and irresponsible solution. Polish young people have the full right to learn about sexual education and have the right to make decisions. As legislators, it is our duty to create a legal framework for sexual education to be conducted and adapted to the age of young people. However, banning these people who are practically adults and who attend high school is a bad, harmful and irresponsible idea. Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition critically evaluates [[♪ The bell ♪]] the draft law submitted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u84	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I would like to refer to the submitted civil project, which is de facto validising all kinds of initiatives to educate young people and children on issues related to physicality and sexuality. I will speak first and foremost not as a politician. I'll try to get rid of all the prejudices, political attitudes. I will also take the floor from the perspective of the parent of two children starting education today in the first classes of primary school. The first reflection from the position of the parent listening to your speech today is that you see a threat to Polish children, young people not in the place where it de facto occurs in the greatest intensity. Do you know where today is the biggest threat for Polish children, for Polish teenagers? Here, on the phones, on the tablets and on the smartphones. Here is a threat to Polish youth and Polish children. Because today against parents' intentions, contrary to their parents' ability to judge, contrary to their ability to counter this, children in primary school, in the first, second or third classes, in their smartphones that bring to school, have pornography in the most hideous edition. They have pictures and movies. They're exposed to the most ugly thing you can imagine, and that's a threat today. How can this be countered? Today, gentlemen, High Izbo, I think that whether we are sitting here on the right side of this room or on the left, if we want to counter this phenomenon today, we need to find a way to make those children in the first, second, third and subsequent classes realize that what they see on these phones, contrary to their parents' warning, is wrong that the intimate relations between men and women should not look like what they look like in these films and in these pictures. Today we should think, politicians, experts, people of the Church and lay people, how to do it at school, so that where a parent does not have time, because there is no time, he will not find a way to do it, to make today young people, children in primary school, high schools, that the relationship between a woman and a man should not look like what they look like in these videos. Believe me, they're watching in their early primary school classes. After talking, I know they're watching. Teachers report what reigns on smartphones during second-, third- and fourth- and fourth-grade tours in Polish elementary schools. There, ladies and gentlemen, today is a threat to the corruption of future Poles. This is where we should look today for ways to address this problem. Like I said, there's no other way to do this if you don't try to explain what the proper relationship between a woman and a man should look like. Going towards your solutions, I fear that it will not be possible to even enter into this sensitive discussion today about how to implement such education into the Polish education, because this education in your project is called something wrong, which should be punished. I am far from it, I immediately reserve, to take any attempt to encourage Polish children to do anything about the sexualization of Polish children, as is often said in recent weeks, but I am categorically opposed to our children's sexuality being carried out through smartphones and tablets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the club Polskie Stronnictwo Ludowe - Coalition Poland is skeptical about these solutions, which are included in the citizens' draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u86	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the applicants! Yes, indeed, the most important information, because it is an absolute scandal, is today that we are so late on such an important project, actually assuming that it will not be converted, that nothing will happen to it. This is another proof of how the ruling party deals with really important issues that concern traditional, conservative values. This is, unfortunately, such a good sign, a determinant of all this. And going to the project, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we actually have three important issues, three problems. The first is whether and how parents should decide to raise their children in every aspect. The Confederation has consistently taken the view that the final sentence and decision should always belong to parents in this respect. They should have a decisive word, because they know their children best, they know what level of development they are, how to match some content to them, how to formulate this message, so that it can reach and be effective. The second problem is the top-down imposition of certain curricula. This, of course, is unacceptable. Parents should have a consistent right to decide on such curricula in order to have a final opinion on the subject in order to choose the ones they consider appropriate, and those who are wrong in their view should actually reject and not allow children to be affected by them. And the third case. In fact, there is also a political problem in the background, because some groups are trying by various means, in this case so-called. Fighting for sexual awareness, gaining your social and political support on the basis of completely false conclusions. Each child has its own individual development opportunities, individual learning rate. To do this, you need to adapt the content and the appropriate message. On the other hand, we strongly disagree, as was said, on sexual education, contrary to my previous speakers. That can't be allowed. Such intimate and delicate spheres should not be discussed in schools. This is, of course, a matter of first and foremost, that children should prepare well with serious subjects, to teach them well medical knowledge, to convey knowledge about man well, to convey biological knowledge well. On the other hand, the so-called. Sexual education, i.e. in practice, child sexuality, boils down to the fact that such intimate and delicate spheres are transformed into another physiological activity. Children must be raised in dignity, self-respect, respectful of certain values. Then most problems disappear. But making it into a sphere that is to be pushed in advance by means of various so-called. school programs always bring more harm than good. It's gotta be that bad. Therefore, the Confederation explicitly supports this project and I thank the applicants for submitting it to the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u88	Thank you very much. Voice on behalf of the Members' Circle now! you have a Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in fact a supporter of citizens' billings, but I am also a huge fan of very well-established law, the law that solves problems and does not create them, the laws that are incarcerated in reality, and not the product of ill imagination, the law that ultimately works for the benefit of citizens, and is not another form of repression where punishment is decided discretionaryly and according to the individual will of the prosecution or court. And unfortunately, this is the project you are presenting today. It's a legislative bubble. I'll tell you why. First of all, you've been appealing here to some, because you don't know what, scientific or pseudoscience research. So I would like to remind you - and this is a scientific fact - that man is a sexual being from birth. I think you've forgotten that. It's part of our nature. And reproduction is the basis for the survival of our species. And let me tell you more: man was a sexual being before the Catholic Church and Ordo Iuris, which are organizations, do not know why, with stubborn maniacs try to deny it. Even priests are sexual beings, and many of them are very often venting. Even as initiators of this bill, you are sexual beings, because I don't think you reproduce by doughnuts, gentlemen. Negotiating a man's sexuality is so... It's like we're denying the fact that our legs are for walking. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, in the project you are presenting, it is very vaguely defined what is calling for sexual intercourse and what is not sexual intercourse. And this gives rise to discretion in the application of law and manipulation, and in practice this law is a hammer to destroy any sexual education and is really a threat to all educators who do a great job. In short, it is not only that the idea you are presenting is sick, but the implementation of this idea is dangerous and harmful to everyone, especially children. Thirdly, punishing a prison for sexual education, which is the result of the prosecutor's initiation of proceedings in an arbitrary manner and without the support of clearly defined rules, is a standard of the totalitarian system. This is the country you're introducing. Is that what you're trying to offer us? Murder and full control? Is that what you want to teach our children? Fear and neurosis? Is this what the Catholic Church wants in Poland? To embarrass and enslave our society even more? Ladies and gentlemen! I'll say one thing. I've never heard of an adult in a sexual education class, any adult encouraging a child to act sexually. But I have heard very often about paedophiles, especially in cassocks, who in a very perfidious way encouraged, encouraged and sexually harmed children. I also know a prosecutor who was sitting here in these benches, who is calling juvenile delinquent acts innocent schmucking. It's a good thing that D.A.'s never gonna sit in those benches again. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I call on all those sitting here now and, I hope, sitting here for a while, all Members and all Members to reject this sick project. And I will add from myself, as a mother of three children: Ladies and gentlemen! Don't scare me with sex. We're born a sexual person. Sex isn't bad, it's nice. But evil is the crime that is committed on people. Evil is violence. It's wrong to hide pedophiles in a system of transference and concealing the perpetrators. This project is bad and I will ask everyone once again to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u90	One person came to the question... [[I'm still here, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind.]] Two people. Time - 1 minute. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a family doctor working for many years, I absolutely support this project and tell you why. Of course, she agrees with what your fellow Member has said that a person is a sexual person, but one must actually understand this sexuality. It's the parents who have the right to be aware - okay. And some parents realize that they bathe together with children, even adults, naked. Everyone bathes together in the shower. Or maybe Daddy comes with his grown daughter to see a doctor, talking about her periods. That's what happens. But school education has to take into account the child's sensitivity and psychophysical condition, it's about getting that knowledge properly and understanding it. Plus, I'd like to say that the sexuality of our children is going towards the consent to the murder of children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here I have an example relating to the portal DzielnyTata.pl, it is about recording and events that took place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u92	Mr Sylvester Khrushch... No, I'm sorry. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our term of office is coming to an end and I was thinking, I wanted to share some reflection, that I never thought that I would be able to thank the Member for her speech in this term of office. And we must thank you, and we must ask that you take this knowledge, which you have just presented on the Parliamentary Speaker, and move on. She moved into the world, moved into the realm of thought, because she said a thing that would seem to be revealing: that here man in his essence is marked to prolong the human species. It's about us breeding to be born. Member, I have a request. Take this knowledge, this revealing knowledge to your leaders and greet very warmly, for example, Mr. Robert Biedron. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u94	Thank you very much. Now she has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Ms. Anna Dalkowska. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: I would like to make a corrigendum, I was called in a very rude way.]] Your speech? But you weren't called by name. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But it was directly to me.]] Undersecretary, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u95	Thank you very much for your vote. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Seeing the need in this regard and assessing the initiative put forward by the initiators of the draft law amending the Law of 6 June 1997. The Penal Code on the Penalization of Sexual Education, in principle I would like to express my approval for the direction adopted in the proposed amendment. While seeing, perhaps, the need for a citizens' initiative and agreeing on the direction of this initiative, I would like to point out that it requires a thorough and thorough analysis in order to identify the need for axiological coherence of the proposed amendment with the provisions of the current Penal Code. Therefore, in view of the fact that this is the last session of the Sejm of the current term of office, it must be borne in mind that a thorough analysis of the proposed amendment from the point of view of its compatibility and, as I have already said, consistency with the current legal regulation is necessary. The proposed amendment requires an analysis of the regulations contained in particular in § 4 of the proposed article. 200b of the Penal Code for the promotion and commendation of the minor for sexual intercourse or other sexual activity, especially in the context of minors aged 15 to 18 years. For this reason, if necessary, the need and the will to continue this project in the next term of office, the government, following a ground-based analysis of the proposed amendment from the point of view of consistency with the whole legal order, in particular the Penal Code, will present its position in this regard. I would like to point out that the proposal submitted by citizens, the citizens' project does not fit into those covered by the principle of discounting in the next term of the Sejm, so I hope that it will continue to be subject to the procedure and that, after a thorough analysis, the government's position in this respect will be presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u96	Thank you, Minister. Mr Olgierd Pankiewicz, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u97	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all of you, the representatives of the clubs, for their presence on this day and for their views, critical comments and approval. I wanted to address them. Because the first time I spoke very briefly, hoping for a discussion right now, I'm gonna take a little bit more time. Starting with the first vote, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, I inform you that the threat of punishment in the proposed provision comes directly from the threat of punishment provided for in the current Article. 200b of the Criminal Code and the extension of the application to the types of qualified threat by a higher year is also to be consistent with the existing provision and, more broadly, with the scope of the threat of similar offences, protecting a similar legal good from the same chapter and chapters adjacent to it. On the other hand, if the identification of this phenomenon of criminology is to go that way, that the threat of punishment should be higher, which in turn seems controversial, because there are voices saying that pedophiles contain not a high risk of punishment, but only the effectiveness and inevitability of prosecution, but if work were to go this way, it would be necessary to increase the risk of punishment throughout the Article. 200b, i.e. also in the current § 1, i.e. in the case of a ban on the promotion of paedophile behaviour. But thank you very much for your comments. With regard to the second speech by the rapporteur from Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha's Citizen's Club, I must say without satisfaction that the criticism that has been presented is, unfortunately, simply missed. And here I also wanted to address collectively the criticism presented by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the Polish People's Party, to what is the confusion of the subject of criticism, criticism of existence, criticism of the draft law which does not exist. It is likely that Members have focused on the media coverage of this project rather than on the project itself. I also read in media reports about this project that it is intended to prevent sexual education of children or that it is to serve as - exactly the same words - a baton against teachers, against doctors or against priests. Well, I'm in a hurry to answer that question. I am referring to a draft law which deals solely with strictly defined acts of promoting and condoning the sexual behaviour of minors. What these verbs mean, what it means to promote and what it means to praise, we know, at least since the adoption of the existing article. 200b of the Penal Code. Comments on this subject have been written enough to make sure that there is no doubt and to consider such accusations that have been made against this project as completely impossible. You know what promotion is, and you know what praise is. I just want to point out that this is about public statements. I also refer to some words of criticism: there are no statements addressed to a specific child in this project, but only statements addressed to society, public statements aimed at changing public morality. The good protected in this provision is not the individual welfare of individual children, but the common good, public morality or public morality. As regards the reference to the age of protection provided for in that provision. What about the children between the ages of 15 and 18? As far as we know, Art. 200 Criminal Code prohibits only paedophile behaviour against a minor under the age of 15. Art. The 200 Criminal Code, which prohibits acts directly directed at an individual child, is not a good analogy to the proposed provision. A good, proper, correct substantive analogy is the provision of the article. 202 The Penal Code, which prohibits the possession, promotion, dissemination of paedophile pornography, or pornography involving a minor. This provision is also the same as the proposed provision amending the Article. 200b, it's designed to protect the public from the image of a child as a sexual object. And this law that protects public morality or morals does not clearly limit the age of a child in pornographic images until the age of 15, because it would be completely impossible to apply such a provision. It's about the impression in society, about the image, about crossing cultural boundaries that protect children from sexual violence, not about individual children. Why? Because crimes involving attacking the goods of individuals are already recorded in the Penal Code elsewhere. I hope that this statement will explain at least some of the misunderstandings. I hope that it will be accepted in good faith and that there will be no repeated lies about this project. Concerning the justification of the project. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum points to a number of cases in which it is precisely during the so-called cases. pseudo-sexual education conducted not by teachers, not by parents, but by self-proclaimed so-called. Sex educators were violating this particular good, which is the morality of the young generation. Such cases from Western countries, such cases from my own practice from Poland I know very much. There is a problem, the problem is not raised by parents of children, because they often face criticism from other parents. Defensive mechanisms work and people breaking out as insubordinate are often shouted out, hence problems related to the excesses of sex educators in Polish schools are not sufficiently publicized because of fear of the bad consequences for children themselves, which parents have. However, it must be said very clearly that there is no education in the project. The provision only refers to the promotion and approval of a minor's sexual activity or to the promotion of other sexual activities. And it's amazing that some people feel called to the board when it comes to this formula. Some people represent the so-called environment in the media. Sex educators feel that this provision is caused to the board, but it means that they assume that their intentions towards children are fundamentally wrong, that their intentions towards children are depraving. The designers don't make such a strong assumption. The authors of the project believe that it can occur in case of uncontrolled sex education carried out by amateurs of such tasks to deprave. That requires criminal protection. As this phenomenon provides many examples, it is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the draft, but I ask the Member who only referred to the erroneous assumptions of this draft law, and I ask the Members who are no longer in the Chamber at the moment, to read the draft carefully before criticising its validity. A good diagnosis, of course, is that pornography poses a serious threat, but pornography addressed to minors is already being punished in other legislations and this project does not deal with this either. And I would also like to explain that, although it is morally correct or even wider - from a legal point of view - that the need to regulate and adapt the teaching of sexual education in school to the worldview requirements of parents must be largely transferred to the existing educational law, which answers most of these questions, most of the doubts are answered. On the other hand, the Penal Code deals with behaviours with a particular severity of harm, a particular severity of bad will, which simply needs to be pursued from the office. And it is nothing new - I respond to these very emotional statements about the alleged introduction of legal terror - it is not surprising that some views are considered in the legal states to be so detrimental to the development of society that they are prohibited from preaching under threat of punishment. Such views in the Polish legal order include any manifestation of discrimination based on racial, ethnic, national, religious or non-denominational background. Such criminal views include communism and fascism on the basis of the Polish legal order. Such views include pedophilia. Pedophilia is particularly dangerous for future generations of views, not only actions, but also views that change the picture of a child in society. This picture of a child in society, in a Polish society so protected that it gave reason to initiate the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, moving and breaking out of all the regulations of the Family and Caring Code and from constitutional regulations, this picture of the child must be preserved so that social order and the development of future generations are possible at all. And this is a discussion about the view, the way society is developing in the future. This is not a worldview discussion. Bringing questions about the necessity to prohibit the acceptance of sex of minors for worldview discussions is a manifestation, forgive me, of the lack of responsibility for the common good. Worldview disputes about how to raise children can be fought between individuals and raise their children as they wish, in accordance with their parents'rights. However, here we are talking about protecting the boundaries of public morality from particularly dangerous perversion, which leads to a disorder of the fundamentals of social order and principles. About the criticism of this bill as a product of a sick imagination. Unfortunately, I have to say this with regret, but the association of this criticism, this critical voice of the Member, is clearly moving towards the well-known and ungrateful sentences of acquitted pedophiles in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s. There also a party accusing of paedophile crimes, against children, was usually discredited as having a sick imagination and as inventing, because it is corrupt, inventing ugly things and accusing these ugly things to an innocent man. There is very serious literature - above all, Mrs Salter in the United States, but also other authors - which pseudo-scientific publications on pedophilia, shed responsibility for pedophilia on minors or on the mothers of these minors, that they have not made sure, criticizes in a way that leaves no doubt about the lack of integrity of those findings, as to the ideological nature and even writing under order of the pedophile environments. So that I would be very opposed and very careful that people who want to protect children from sexual crimes use the argument of ill imagination, because such criticism points rather to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who picks it up than who wants to protect the baby. About the article... I spoke about the age threshold. I think I've referred to all the speeches. If it's still necessary and the marshal gives me the floor, I'll be more specific. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u98	Thank you very much. This concludes the discussion. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 52 hours 15 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law on the creation of the Kaliska Academy. President Stanisław Wojciechowski in Kalisz, print 3853. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Parliamentary draft law on the creation of the Kaliska Academy. President Stanisław Wojciechowski in Kalisz (prints 3815 and 3853). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth worked on a draft law on the creation of the Kaliska Academy. President Stanisław Wojciechowski in Kalisz, print 3815. The establishment of the Kalisz Academy in place of the State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz is mainly due to the need to carry out tasks resulting from the right to confer a doctoral degree, which the State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz obtained in the field of medical sciences and health sciences in the field of health science, especially since the State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz applied in April this year for further powers to confer a doctoral degree in social sciences in the field of safety science. This is the most important reason, but of course one could mention a number of very important reasons why this academy should be created, because state higher education schools have very well entered the Polish world of science, the world of higher education and raising the prestige of the school to the level of the academy is important for the whole community. Several amendments have been made today, mainly of a legislative nature, and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth recommends that the High House adopt this law, which has been delivered to ladies and gentlemen in print No 3853. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u100	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite Mr Jan Mosiński on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present to the High House the position of the club concerning the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Kaliska Academy. President Stanisław Wojciechowski in Kalisz, print 3815. It is also personal for me to present this position. In 1999, i.e. 20 years ago, as chairman of the Regional Council for Election Action, I was involved in the establishment of the State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz. Today, in other realities, as a Member of the Polish Parliament representing the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as well as co-author of the parliamentary draft law, I have the honour to present this position. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Kalisz, the youngest spirit and oldest town in Poland, already mentioned by Claudius Ptolemy in 158 years. C.E., became a centre of higher education than the 16th century. In 1580 Polish primate Stanisław Karnkowski brought the Jesuits to Kalisz. Their task, as we read in many chronicles, was to establish a college and a seminary in Kalisz. So much history. At present there is a Higher Seminary in Kalisz, as well as the Pedagogical and Artistic Faculty of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. In addition to these two universities 20 years ago, in 1999, the State Higher Vocational School was established, which in that time educated thousands of students. On the basis of this university, a group of Members recognizes the opportunity to set up the Kaliska Academy with the same name as the previous PWSZ, submitting the relevant bill. The transformation of the State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz into the Academy of Kalisz in previous years has been expressed by many politicians of the Civic Platform, who have contributed nothing in addition to the declarations over the years. This would be the case in 2013, when Ms Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Member of the Civic Platform, accompanied by Members of the Civic Platform from Kalisz and Poznań visited Kalisz. After the loud announcements about the establishment of a support group by the politicians of the Polish Republic and the Marshal of the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, only memories and unfulfilled promises remained for the establishment of the Kaliska Academy. This inertia, not to say: the dislike of the politicians of the Civic Platform for the establishment of the Kaliska Academy was visible, in quotes, with a naked eye during today's committee meeting. On 6 September this year. A draft bill signed by a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice has entered the Sejm, who, unlike politicians of the PO making empty promises, are starting to act to establish the Academy of Kaliska. What are the main arguments behind these actions? There can be no mention of more than 1861-year metrics of Kalisz and higher education traditions. The legal formula of PWSZ is also exhausted. The need for the establishment of the Kaliska Academy is due to the fact that, in the current legal state, the university cannot carry out tasks arising from its right to confer a doctoral degree. At this point, it should be stressed that, on the basis of the decision of the Central Commission for Degrees and Titles, the university has obtained the authority to confer a doctoral degree in the field of medical sciences and health sciences. The Higher Vocational School in Kalisz has the appropriate capabilities to function in the modified formula, with, first, the professorship and the necessary infrastructure. It predisposes a professional university to continue to develop, to be a dynamic university. Therefore, in the assessment of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Kalisz deserves full academic status. The university is currently prepared to award scientific titles, as can be confirmed by another initiative of the university authorities in April 2019 when a request for a doctoral degree in social sciences in the field of safety science was made. As regards the existing provisions of the Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science, Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 clearly indicates that a professional university, which is currently the PWSZ, can conduct first-cycle studies, second-cycle studies, uniform master's studies and specialized training. It follows that PWSZ in Kalisz cannot broadcast doctoral degrees or conduct doctoral training. The right to carry out doctoral training and to grant degrees in accordance with Article. The 14 cited law has only universities with among others. university status. Responding to the efforts of the university authorities, the professors' group, the academic community, the Kalisz city authorities, as well as the residents of the castle on Prosna, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice appreciates the draft law. We believe that the proposed changes to the name and model of the current MFA are justified and consistent with the idea of autonomy of the academic community. Undoubtedly, the new name, as well as the change of the type of university from a public professional university to a university, will contribute to a positive opinion on the university in the developing Kalisz and Kalisz-ostrowa agglomeration, as well as its socio-economic environment, also strengthening the prestige of the Kalisz Academy. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of further investigation of the parliamentary draft law [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the creation of the Kaliska Academy. President Stanisław Wojciechowski in Kalisz. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u102	Thank you, sir. Wojciech Ziamniak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition I am pleased to review the draft law on the creation of the Kaliska Academy. President Stanisław Wojciechowski in Kalisz. The subject of this draft law is the establishment of the Kaliska Academy. President Stanisław Wojciechowski in Kalisz on the basis of the State Higher Vocational School since 1999. President Stanisław Wojciechowski in Kalisz. The necessity of the establishment of the Kalisz Academy is due to the fact that in the current legal state of PWSZ in Kalisz, it cannot carry out tasks arising from the right to confer a doctoral degree. The State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz has gained the authority to give a doctoral degree in medical sciences and health sciences in the discipline of health science, but PWSZ in Kalisz cannot broadcast these degrees and conduct doctoral training. The right to carry out doctoral training and to grant degrees in accordance with Article. 14 of the Law of 20 July 2019. Law on Higher Education and Science only applies to universities with university status. The draft law comprehensively regulates matters related to continuity of teaching, training and research activities of PWSZ in Kalisz. The project also sets out rules for the acquisition by the academy of employees, students, PhD students, post-graduate students and educational courses. This draft law also proposes solutions to enable the school to function smoothly in the first year of its activities and to ensure the time necessary for the formal liquidation of PWSZ in Kalisz. It should be stressed that students of PWSZ in Kalisz are young people who come mainly from local towns, especially from poor rural areas, who cannot afford to live and study in large university cities, therefore the position of the University of Kalisz in the region is invaluable. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I express a positive opinion on this Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u104	Thank you, sir. I invite you now to speak for Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. In that case, I ask Mr Jerzy Kozłowski to speak on behalf of the Circle of Members of the Union of Real Policy. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My position will be not only the position of the Union of Real Policy, but also the position that I will present as Kalisz's resident. Nobody knows better than we do, kalise, how important this bill is, how important it is to establish the Kaliska Academy. I'm glad we finally went from words to actions. As a citizen of Kalisz, I have heard about the necessity of setting up an academy from PO Members over the years. I also heard about the Kalisz ring road. They were just beautiful stories, no action was taken. Now we have something concrete. I hope that tomorrow will be a wonderful day on which we can vote in favour of setting up such an important scientific venture as the Kaliska Academy. It is important not only for the inhabitants of Kalisz, but also for the whole region. I fully agree with the observation that these changes will increase primarily the prestige of universities, and prestige in higher education is as important as other values of universities. Therefore, we can recommend to everyone that we continue to proceed with this good bill, regardless of the fact that there will probably be opinions against it. Let us ignore the silence of all kinds of comments that do not serve the good of our city. Let us vote with a clear conscience to appoint the Academy of Kalisz. As a fully conscious representative of the Circle of Members, the Union of Real Policy, but also as a Kalishan, I support the process of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u106	Thank you, sir. Piotr Kalet joined the question. Would any of you like to join the list? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member of Kalisz, I cannot fail to speak in this debate. I would like to express my great joy and gratitude to the doctor, the senator, for carrying out this bill, for bringing it to an end formally. I think we need to share some reflection, knowing, of course, that the Sejm is being held in particular time, and this is about today's sitting. However, it is a pity that there are no other members from the Kalisk-Leszczyński district, especially from Kalisz, at the time of this discussion. It would raise the profile, and as if it would strengthen our conviction that we are going in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u108	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Dziedziczak, a representative of the applicants, also asked for the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Magnificence, Mr. Rector! It's a big day. We are very pleased that another promise made by our government has been fulfilled. We keep our word, the Academy of Kaliska arises, becomes a fact, and that is, I think, a historic day. We really want the second city of war. Wielkopolska, the Kalisko-ostrowska agglomeration, had a very strong academic center. I thank Prof. Andrzej Wojtyle very warmly for what he did in Kalisz for the development of the academic world. Ladies and gentlemen! It was with great sadness that I observed and observed the obstruction of Members of the Civic Platform towards this project. I would like to remind you, Mr Rafał Grupiński, chairman of the Education and Science Committee, did not want to introduce this draft to the committee before the elections, which would allow for earlier proceedings on this project. We meet shortly after the election. As a curiosity, Mr Grupiński, after the opening of the meeting of the Education and Science Committee, came out of the meeting. This was the meeting of his replacements, who said: maybe we should hold off on this project, after all, after the election. What the Members of the Law and Justice said, of course, that after the election, our formation behaves exactly the same way as before the elections. Since we promised the Kaliska Academy to be established, we're just doing it. The argument that he's after the election doesn't interest us at all. It's obvious that after the election, you just have to do what you said was going to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very sad that on this historic day, those who spoke so much about the establishment of the Kaliska Academy did not join in the plenary room. Mr Grupiński is absent from the plenary room, Mr Witczak is absent from the plenary room and we, Members of the Law and Justice, are implementing this project. As an applicant, I would like to thank you for your cooperation. I am pleased that I had the honour of carrying out this law by the Sejm, proposing a draft of this law to the High House, this is a parliamentary project. And I ask the High House to support this project. Taking advantage of the privilege of the Member of the applicant, I would like to submit to your Technical Marshal an amendment related to the term of office of the authorities and kindly ask the High House, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, to support the law on the establishment of the Kaliska Academy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u110	Thank you, sir. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Commission for Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies submitted a report on a government draft law amending the Act on the ITisation of activities of entities performing public tasks, the Law on Civil Status Acts, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Law on Telecommunications Law, the Law on Rules of Public Collections and some other laws, print No 3835. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Informationization of Public Activity, the Law on Civil Status Acts, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Law on Telecommunications Law, the Law on Rules of Conduct for Public Collections and some other Acts (Prints No 3789 and 3835). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, I would like to submit a report on the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks, the Law on Civil Status Acts, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Law on Telecommunications Law, the Law on Rules of Public Collections and some other laws. The proposed law was established on the basis of the principles of the draft law amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws adopted by the Council of Ministers on 27 September 2017. In relation to the assumptions made, the project has been extended to introduce data verification for compliance with the data collected in the PESEL registry where the public register operates using ICT systems and processes the data of natural persons holding the PESEL number. In addition, in particular with regard to the observations notified under the inter-ministerial arrangements, the draft law is amended not covered by the following provisions: the Law of 29 June 1995 on public statistics, the Law of 16 July 2004 on telecommunications, the Law of 14 March 2014 on rules for the conduct of public collections and the Act of 6 December 2018 amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws. The assumptions include changes to the passport register. The proposed regulation has been replaced by the introduction of a register of passport documents because it requires a comprehensive, separate regulation. What is important to emphasise is that the proposed amendments to the Act are not contrary to European Union law. The Commission welcomes these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u112	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u113	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the act on the informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks, the Law on civil status records, the Law on proceedings before administrative courts, the Law on telecommunications, the Law on rules governing public collections and certain other laws, print No 3789. The main objective of the proposed law is to establish a legal basis for the functioning of the contact data register, in short: the RDK, which will be the central register, kept by the Minister responsible for. computerization in which the data are recorded in real time. In practice, the bill introduces a number of facilitations for a person in contact with the public administration, including, most importantly, it will really help to comply with statutory deadlines and procedures in the implementation of his or her cases. The functioning of the contact data register will enable the citizen to be informed and will facilitate rapid contact in the event of doubts about the authorities involved in the implementation of the case or the need to inform the citizen of the status of the case or the expiry of the time limit. The correction of the data, i.e. the introduction, modification or deletion of the data, can be carried out by the person using the data using an electronic service and by the public administration in the context of the execution of cases for the benefit of that person. In other words, the register will allow the provision of electronic public administration services of an information nature. The register will be included in the System of State Registers, will collect data such as address, e-mail, contact phone number and - in the future - an electronic address for delivery. A common problem is the situation where administrative authorities, despite their willingness to contact citizens, do not have information on electronic means of communication enabling the provision of information services. This is therefore one of the practical facilitations. It should also be borne in mind that the collection of contact data of the same type in different registers may differ in some cases, which is most often the fault of non-intended errors. It should be stressed that, in the current situation, data are collected in the field registers and are usually used only for the implementation of a specific case. As it turns out, in subsequent cases, the citizen is usually not able to update his contact details, especially in electronic form. The draft law also addresses the important problem of collecting the same public data in different public registers. An unjustified burden on the citizen is that the authorities keeping these registers require the same data to be provided continuously, despite the prior supply and processing by another public authority. The problem that is being solved is also an excuse for the citizen to obtain a copy of the civil status act. The project will also allow authorities keeping public registers to be required to update data in those registers on the basis of data from the PESEL register to download data from the PESEL register in connection with the performance of statutory tasks. This aims to eliminate the operation in different registers of the same person under a number of different types of data stored and the need to confirm or update them. The register itself, despite frequent updates, will be a tool characterised by a high level of security and its set of services is open, which means that it will be able to grow systematically in the future. Dear Marshal! Minister! The Law and Justice Club welcomes the bill presented and recommends its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u114	Thank you, sir. I invite you to take the floor of Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club regarding the draft law amending the Act on the ITisation of activities of entities carrying out public tasks, the Law on Civil Status Acts, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Law on Telecommunications Law, the Law on Rules of Public Collections and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of the System of State Registers is certainly a milestone in the digitalization of the Polish state and will certainly become a significant facilitation for citizens. Unfortunately, the Act is delayed due to difficulties in data integration. I would like to mention here the example of Estonia, which has dealt with this problem completely bypassing it. Here's how the legislator put an obligation on the authorities to exchange data. Using it in conjunction with a state-based blockchain-based register allowed to skip this work- and time-consuming phase, making the whole system work smoothly and safely. I'm hoping that we'll also... In this direction we should go and solutions of this kind should be taken into account in further work on the law. Dear Marshal! I've shortened my speech a little bit. If your Marshal will allow me, I would like - because I have not received the mandate of a Member for the next term of office - to thank all the employees of the Sejm for 10 years of care at the time when I was a Member of Parliament. I also thank all my constituents for each vote. Even though I didn't get my ticket, it's very important to me and your voice hasn't been wasted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u116	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 30 hours 15 min 32]] We continue to consider item 39 of the agenda. I invite you to take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the speeches on behalf of the clubs: the draft law is positive. The committee also gave him a positive opinion. Please proceed with the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u118	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I would like to inform you that the planned item 40th agenda: The report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Industrial Property Law will not be considered today. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 15 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Robert Majka, not associated, has the floor. Are you an MP? There isn't. I therefore ask that the voice of Mr John Klawiter, the non-associated Member, be taken up. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Declaration against the threat of fundamental rights of the Republic of Poland. Here's a quote: We're not here for decoration, we're going to destroy your society. The above sentence is the content of the banner at the gay and lesbian march held in Paris on 29 June 2019. Are we, most Poles, either leading or appreciating family life, aware that the values confirmed in the Constitution: family, marriage are fundamental to society and the duration of the nation, to be subjected to such provocations and objectives of these environments outlined on banner? For over 1053 years the foundation of Poland's development has been faith in God. God is the giver of life, God is love. From God comes the natural law, which is subject to everything that exists. The man God created is a free creature. A man and a woman made them. Man's freedom has its limitations where the freedom of another man begins. The family in which man develops is the foundation of society, is the foundation of every civilization. The family is and must be autonomous in relation to all social structures and organisations. Parental power cannot be challenged by anyone. It means the right of parents to decide important matters concerning their children, including those related to their sexual education. Our brothers and sisters, who experience homosexual tendencies, representing about 3% of society, are free people and can do whatever they want within the limits of our laws. The basis of this right is and must be natural law. Therefore, any agreement to register relationships between individuals of the same biological pay is excluded and to confer any privileges on them, e.g. the right to common taxation or adoption of children. Every political group against these principles under natural law destroys the nation, destroys the family and destroys the state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u120	Thank you, sir. I invite you to make a statement by Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz,15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u121	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement on Draft Print Act 3713, because there was an acceleration at the meeting, which I did not know about, and this is very important. I would like to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. We are discussing the draft law to align Polish law with the requirements of the International Convention on Control and Management of Ballast Waters, adopted in London on 13 February 2004. The aim of the bill is to enable the application in Polish maritime areas of the requirements of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with static ballast waters and sediments, the BWM Convention. In the fight against the spread of alien species, as well as their harmful effects on marine ecosystems, human health and the economy, it is necessary to introduce a BWM Convention aimed at preventing ships from carrying harmful marine organisms and pathogens and reducing this phenomenon by controlling and managing ballast waters and sediments. The requirements of the BWM Convention and its technical guidelines will be implemented by introducing a new chapter concerning the control and handling of static ballast waters and sediments which comprehensively regulates these issues into the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. The additional chapter on the handling of ballast waters and sediments shall address the following issues: the scope of application of the requirements where and to which types of vessels the provisions on the handling of ballast waters apply; standards for the handling of ballast waters, inter alia. the ban on the discharge of ballast water in Polish maritime areas, the collection of deposits from ballast tanks in shipyards and terminals where cleaning and repair of ballast tanks takes place; the granting of exemptions to ships from certain procedures for handling ballast water and deposits in Polish marine areas; the required documents, the Ballast water certificate, the ballast water management plan, the ballast records book; the certification and review of the requirements of the BWM Convention for Polish flag ships, including gross tonnage vessels GT, having regard to the validity of these regulations, I support this proposal, as I said at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u122	Thank you, sir. And I invite you to make a statement by Mr Sławomir Nitras, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u123	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! I'll admit I'm a little surprised that the Sejm's deliberations end so quickly, which means the agenda isn't very extensive. There is such danger, such a fear that, in fact, this session of the Sejm was convened not so that we would finish at hours. 15, just so we can elect a new president of the Supreme Auditorium. And I would like to ask you, Marshal - I am aware that these are statements and I cannot formally expect you to answer, but I hope that you will answer me - whether today you have received a letter informing you that President Banas has resigned. And if so, if he has offered such a resignation on your hands, I would like to remind you of your declaration when the entire Sejm informed you that there will be an adjournment and that we will meet after the election, that you have given us a guarantee that the order of business of the Sejm will not be changed, that there is no least reason to do so. Therefore, I would like you to resolve our doubts. First of all, could you inform us - let me remind you - is there this resignation, has this letter been received to you, and secondly, are you going to keep the obligation that you have imposed on yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-15-sejm-86-2.u124	Thank you, sir. Even though it wasn't a statement, I'd be happy to answer you. Well, there is one reason why the acceleration has taken place, sir. If you could see how many Members there are no representatives of the parliamentary clubs today. Count it off. Each Member has 5 minutes to speak on behalf of the club. These Members are not here, so this is speeding up. The program was set for today - we will see to it that there is no doubt - by noon. 20.30, and because there are no Members, forgive me, there is no obligation... [[Let's see if she can vote on who.]] ...there was an acceleration, not because there was another reason. Secondly, Mr President, I have kept my word and there is no change. And thirdly, no letter of resignation from Mr. Marian Banasi has touched me. I don't know where it came from, because one of the journalists just texted me, so I'd like to comment. I don't know anything about that. When I left the firm just now, because I'm here at that last point, there was nothing like that... [[Thank you.]] ...so I think someone leaked this fake news, I understand, because none of this happened. So that, sir, I have kept my word. [[Thank you kindly.]] There's no change. The only change we made with full agreement and with the Convention and the Bureau was the so-called. The corridor of life, a draft law on amending the Traffic Act, so that we can get to accidents faster by ambulances and fire department. Does this reply from the Member satisfy you? [[Thank you very kindly.]] In that case, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our parliamentary statements. The meeting shall be adjourned by 16 October 2019 at the latest. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 15 min 45]]
