ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u1	Resume session. High Izbo, I declare a 15-minute recess until 9.15 a.m. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 00 to 9 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please take your seats, and the senators of the secretaries... Oh, they've already taken their seats, so thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Dear Senators, I inform you... Well, it's important information, and there's some strange reverb... Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that an additional Senate meeting will be held on 1 February 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. I don't have it in the script, but let me tell you, we're gonna be debating a few laws. We are planning that the committee's meetings will be held the day before the Senate meeting and that the Senate meeting will begin on 1 February at 9 a.m. In addition, I would like to inform you that after considering the second point, i.e. second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Andrzej Małkowski At 10 a.m., we will consider the third point, i.e. second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. The votes on these resolutions will be held immediately after consideration of the draft of each of them. The second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of Andrzej Małkowski's death begins on the second agenda. I would like to warmly welcome the granddaughter of Olga and Andrzej Małkowski, Krystyna Małkowska-Żaba, to the meeting. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] I also warmly welcome representatives of scout organizations from Poland, Belarus, Ukraine, Great Britain. [[Applause]] Hello, Scout Anne Nowosad, head of the Polish Scouts Association. [[Applause]] Hello, Scout Justyna Sikorska, Deputy Head of the Polish Scouts Association, Scout Dariusz Supł, Chairman of the Polish Scouts Association... [[Applause]] ...Sharkmaster Grzegorz Novik, Chairman of the Association of Scouts of the Republic... [[Applause]] ...Sharkmaster Jan Paswa, Vice-President of the Association of Scouts of the Republic of Poland... [[Applause]] ...the Scout of Jerzy Żochowski of the Federation of European Scouting, the Warden of Scouts. [[Applause]] I would also like to welcome the sub-harcmaster of Jakub Siekierzyński, the Warsaw Huftz from the Federation of European Skauting. [[Applause]] Hello, Mr Oleksandr Raditsa, Commander of Scout Hufc, Volhynia of Polish Scouts in Ukraine. I warmly welcome you. [[Applause]] Hello, Maryna Jucho, President of the Republican Social Union, Scouts, and Mrs Helena Strałkowska, Scout, President of the Republican Social Union, Scouts. [[Applause]] Welcome to Podharc master Jack Kruczkowski from the Polish Scouting in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Hello Pavla Paneva from Polish Scouts in Ukraine... [[Applause]] ...and Zbigniew Kowalczyk, member of the Headquarters of the Scouts' Association of Polish Scouts outside the borders of the country. [[Applause]] I would like to welcome you all very warmly. Watch out! I would remind you that the draft resolution was tabled by a group of senators and is included in print No 986, and the committee's report In print No 986 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Wiatra, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Andrzej Małkowski and the 40th anniversary of the death of Olga Drahonowski-Malkowska. I'm glad to have Andrzej's granddaughter and Olga Krystyna with us. I am pleased that there are scouts and scouts with us, representatives of the global authorities of the ZHP, who have kept the deposit of the pre-war ZHP with the emigration government in London, and that today they are bringing together scouts teams from all over the world, and that they are mentioned by your marshal delegations from Lithuania, Ukraine and Belarus as well as representatives of the general authorities of ZHP, ZHR and Scouts of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, we are at a time where we often resemble the next centuries, starting on 11 November. The symbolic date of regaining independence. We celebrated the centenary of the vocation of the Catholic University of Lublin, the centenary of the bar, and today we will also celebrate the centenary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. It was a time of extreme intensity, expectation and preparation. It was a time of extraordinary eruption of activity, much needed and necessary. But today's resolution is different. Reminds of an event from a place far away from Poland A ship sank near the Messina Strait on the night of January 15 to 16, 1919. This ship sailed to Odessa with a military mission from General Haller to Gen. Żeligowski Andrzej Małkowski along with Lt. Jerzy Rudlicki. The legendary founder of the Boy Scouts in 1911 who started the translation of Robert Baden-Powell's textbook in 1909 and founded Scouting for Boys because he was thinking about Poland's independence. And that's what Polish scouts are still different from world scouting. Already in 1913 at the Birmingham rally, it was evident that scouting stands out among the other scout teams. This was also noticed by the founder of Baden-Powell Scouting. To this day, we say scouting is scouting plus independence. It's been like this since the beginning. The idea of independence has shaped scouts in an important way from the very beginning. But it should be emphasized that scouting is not, as some want, a paramilitary formation, which is also feared by the world's scoutmasters. I heard this from the leaders of world and European scouting in 1989, when we made efforts to be in WOSM and WAGGGS. Military activity was the result of a deep ethical, moral formation and appeared at various moments in our history also by military effort. It was a natural consequence of God's love, his homeland, and his neighbor. This road led by Andrzej Małkowski through Eleuteria, through Eleusis and Zarzewie, and only then through the Polish Gymnastic Society. The synthesis of all these values and aspirations, the recognition of this extraordinary and important imperative, this extraordinary charism which Andrzej Małkowski just breathed, allows us to understand many further fates of Polish Boy Scouts. The grey ranks were primarily an educational organization, and only then a military organization. For example, the programs show this today. - Tomorrow. The day after tomorrow and the youth. The same was true in the 1940's, 1950's, and 1980's. Andrzej Małkowski's charism is also abstinence and service to God. These 3 most important charisms of Andrzej Małkowski, patriotism, service to God and abstinence, were at the heart of Polish Boy Scouts. But we also need to talk about the fourth extraordinary charisma that sealed with his whole life Andrzej Małkowski. It was just that the Boy Scout is a lifetime, as the Boy Scout oath says. That doesn't mean for the rest of your life, but for the rest of your life. That was Andrzej Małkowski in Lviv, Zakopane, Canada, wherever he was, also in Monte Carlo, which scouts know from literature. That's the kind of boy scout he was. And we want the Boy Scouts to be like that today. Not only at the fundraiser and at the Boy Scout camp, but for 24 hours each day. The simple consequence of such an attitude was the numerous participation of Boy Scouts in the defense of Lviv, in the defense of Warsaw and many other places described in particular by Władysław Necrasz in the book "The Boy Scouts in the Fights," depicting the military effort of Boy Scouts in 1914 and 1921. Just as intelligence appeared in 1920 and 1939, hence so great intellectual and social losses after Katyn. This was Andrzej Małkowski, and so was his wife Olga Drahonowska-Malkowska, who was a team of one of the first three teams formed in May 1911. Then the teams were formed in Zakopane and in other places. After Andrzej Małkowski's death, she was part of the top management of the World Scout Committee. She started a scouting school in Sromovce. During the war, she was extremely active, mostly in Britain. After the war, she returned to Poland and lived alone in Zakopane. She was visited by her scouts and few friends, especially Kurowski's friend and his scouts from Meshna, as well as Leonhard's friend from Cracow, a friend who cares about history, investigating the circumstances of the catastrophe and seeking to resume the book about Andrzej Małkowski in the Polish People's Republic, which happened in 1979. Exactly 60 years after Andrzej Małkowski's death, Olga Drahonowska-Malkowska died in Zakopane. It was a rough winter. The funeral took place in Zakopane. The authorities refused to allow burials at the cemetery for the well-deserved ones at Płęksowy Brzzek. A small delegation of young people from Meszna and Krakow arrived, reliable Girl Scouts and son of Lutyk. I had the honor of being present at this funeral. In September 1981 a beautiful monument was erected at the cemetery in Zakopane to commemorate Andrzej and Olga Małkowski. There were many scouting delegations from all over Poland. It was already the time of awakening after the election of Charles Wojtyla for the Pope and after the rise of the Solidarity. It was also a time of instructor circles of Andrzej Małkowski. Of course, my resolution is to be an anniversary resolution, a historic resolution, but its message to the whole society and the young generation is extremely important. Is scouting true to Andrzej and Olga Małkowski's ideas today? Can he move those ideas and ideals into a difficult time today? The time of the Internet, the growing prosperity, globalisation, the information society and the knowledge economy, the time of giving up value? Andrzej Małkowski spoke with his whole life about the service of God, Poland and his neighbor. The role of an adult society is to see it and to respect it, so that the young people sitting here can be proud of it and pass it on to their peers, slightly younger scouts and scouts. Scouts are very much needed today for young people and for an adult society. It is needed to show a joyful world, full of values and service, a world that allows man to become more human. Dear bridesmaids and dear bridesmaids! It is up to you to maintain and pass on the Boy Scout's banner to the next generation, whether the Boy Scouts will survive as an authentic educational movement, whether they will be faithful to the values, including the Christian values that Andrzej Małkowski referred to, whether they will not be a reproduction of the past, but an authentic, intellectually strong and mature pedagogical movement, reading the signs of time in the form of new tasks, new challenges and new forms of action, whether the Boy Scout's banner will survive and whether it will fly high. John Paul II repeatedly met with Boy Scouts. He set out their assignments and supported their efforts. It is worth mentioning the meeting at Jasna Góra in 1983, Tarnów in 1987 and Westerplatte in 1987. He also gave the Boy Scouts a patron, B. Phm. Stefan Wincent Frelichowski. You must understand the cultural code of the young and enrich it every day, even when no one requires it and when it costs very much. But what it costs is really worth it if it's smart. Nobody's gonna do that for you, the bridesmaids and the bridesmaids. We can only help you. That's what the resolution's for. I'm asking you to take it. Now I'm going to read her lyrics. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the death of Andrzej Małkowski and the 40th anniversary of the death of Olga Drahonowska-Malkowska. On January 15, 2019 the 100th anniversary of the death of Andrzej Małkowski and the 40th anniversary of the death of Olga Drahonowska-Malkowska, outstanding creators of Polish Boy Scouting. Andrzej Małkowski is a legendary creator of Boy Scouting, which was created by combining the principles of scouting and Polish ideas of independence. In 1909, he was assigned the task of translating the Scoutbook written by Robert Baden-Powell. At the same time, Andrzej Małkowski laid the foundation for significant enrichment of scouting The service of God, Poland and neighbor has become the most important axis of scouting. In May 1911 the first Boy Scouts were formed. Andrzej Małkowski is part of the first Scout Command. Since the autumn of this year Małkowski has issued a Scout, which has gained remarkable readability. Initiates the emergence of many teams and scouting environments. In 1913 he organizes a trip of the Polish group to the Third All-British Scout Zloty to Birmingham, where he receives a medal from Baden-Powell. That same year she is marrying Olga Drahonowski and moving to Zakopane. They're a strong scouting facility. After the outbreak of the First World War he joins the Polish Legions. After trying to create the Republic of Podhale, he must leave Zakopane and go to England and then to the United States. That's where he sets up scout teams among the Polish community. In December 1916 he joined the army in Canada. In November 1918 he was transferred to General Józef Haller's army. Sent on a military mission to Polish troops in Odessa to General Lucjan Żeligowski dies at night from 15 to 16 January 1919. The ship Chaouia, which sailed, fell on a mine and sank near the Messina Strait. Olga Drahonowska was the team of the III Lviv Skautek Team. Emilia Plater, one of the first three teams formed in May 1911. After the war wandering through Canada, France, Switzerland and England, he and his son Lutyka returned to Poland in 1921. In Poland, it is devoted to scouting activities. In 1924 she was the commandant of the Boy Scouts in Świdrze near Warsaw, followed by the Polish delegation to the Third World Scout Conference in England. In 1925 he founded the School of Instructor's and Scout's Work in Sromovce Wyżne. In 1927, as one of the few, she received the dignity of the Harcmister of the Republic. In 1932, he holds the 7th World Scout Conference in Bucza, Wielki Górki, and there he is unanimously elected to the World Scout Committee. She's also a scout delegate at the Child and Youth Care Committee in the League of Nations. At the beginning of World War II he leaves Poland and goes to Great Britain. That's where he's setting up the Polish Children's House. In 1942, she became president of the ZHP General Committee for the war. In 1961 he returns to Poland and settles permanently in Zakopane. He dies on January 15, 1979. At the time of the Polish People's Republic, Andrzej and Olga Małkowski were banned and removed from public space. All commemorations and names were banned for the teams. Each sneaking in of a memorial plaque or the printing of a leaflet or brochure became an achievement and joy. In 1968 Cardinal Karol Wojtyla for the first time celebrated a solemn Mass in the church of St.Anna in Cracow on the anniversary of the death of Andrzej Małkowski and it became a tradition that lasted until today. When Olga returned to Poland, she lived in oblivion in Zakopane, and when she died, the authorities did not allow the burial in Zakopane Cemetery. It was not until 1980 that the Scout's Circles were formed. Andrzej Małkowski, restoring to public memory the character of the founder of Boy Scouts. In September 1981 Olga was transferred to the main avenue A new cemetery in Zakopane was allowed to erect a monument. The martial law has outlawed the Malkovsky Circle. The remaining Girl Scout conspiracy, referring to Andrzej and Olga's independence efforts. The giving by the President of the Republic of Poland on 11 November 2018 of the Orders of the White Eagle to Andrzej and Olga Małkowski fully restores their wonderful characters to the young generation and society as a whole. The Senate of the Republic of Poland wishes to commemorate Andrzej and Olga Małkowski, two outstanding creators of Polish Boy Scouts. The Senate does this with recognition for the activities of Polish Boy Scouts, for its educational values, which for more than a hundred years have shaped the personality and attitudes of subsequent generations of Polish youth in the spirit of service and brotherhood. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm asking you to keep your conversations out of the O.R. It doesn't matter. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.]] The scouts and scouts at the most difficult moments in our homeland's history have repeatedly passed the test of patriotism and civic attitudes. We want future generations of Polish Boy Scouts and Boy Scouts to continue the work of the founders of Boy Scouts in the spirit of service to God, Poland and others, and all young people are guided by patriotism and service to another man. This task is still very up-to-date and still very difficult. Helping in triggering positive emotions and energy to face challenges is our wonderful predecessors Unselfish, hardworking, devoted to the needy and the National, modern and faithful to the highest values. We hope that for many years to come, scouting will be an important point of reference for young people to make life decisions, a challenge and a field of service for our nation and state. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask the High House to adopt this resolution. Finally, I would like to present a short quote from the book about Andrzej Małkowski by Alexander Kaminski, the author of the stone known to us, which was created in 1944. Earlier, in 1942, Andrzej Kaminski wrote a book "Great Game" on behalf of the AK Headquarters. He was the editor-in-chief of the Information Bulletin of the AK Headquarters, which appears every week in over 45 thousand copies. The creator of athletic methodology, professor, educator. In 1934 he wrote a book about Andrzej Małkowski. In 1979 an extended version was released, supplemented by materials and photographs of Bolesław Leonhard from Kraków. In the last words of the book it is said: "Druhu Andrzeju! Forgive me for disturbing your rest. That I'm pulling you out of eternity. But there is an opportunity to do a good deed: you must appear to the multitudes who have heard of you, but do not know you, and also to those who know nothing about you. To see you. And when they saw them, they knew and placed them in their hearts. You, who were the first Polish Boy Scout. Who was a Polish soldier passing past the smallness born of bondage, with eyes plucked into the White Eagle, defending all who speak Polish language. Who you were the incarnation of the idea of brotherhood among men. Who you were a constant blacksmith of your character. Who you were always willing to serve. Who you were master at gray work and master at a thrilling job. Whose life was a constant pulse of blood. And by appearing as you were, you will fulfill I believe you. One more act: you breathe righteousness and momentum in your heart longing to pursue your clues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much again, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Kazimierz Wind to represent them. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Andrzej Małkowski and the 40th anniversary of the death of Olga Drahonowski-Malkowska. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. I would like to inform you that 72 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Andrzej Małkowski and the 40th anniversary of the death of Olga Drahonowska-Malkowska. [[Applause]] I ask Mrs Krystyna Małkowska-Żaba, granddaughter of Olga and Andrzej Małkowski, to approach the presidial table. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] Okay, thank you very much. I'm calling a recess until 10:00. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 40 to 10 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo, please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of the third item: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. I would like to welcome Marshal Marshal Marek Kuchciński to the meeting. Mr. Marshal, welcome... [[Applause]] ...and the head of the Sejm Chancellery, Mrs Agnieszka Kaczmarska. Welcome, Minister. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that the project was brought in by a group of senators. It is printed in print 1062, and the report is printed in print no 1062 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal of the Seym! Dear Director! [[Minister...]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, please sit down and stop talking.]] Thank you very much. I am pleased to present to you the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. I'm about to read this project to you. But before that happens, if you'll allow me, I'll give him a little comment. Well, we have such anniversaries in Poland's history, which cause collective, rightly, thrill of identity emotions. Even recently celebrated another anniversary of the tragic, but at the same time lofty, of the January Uprising. We know that such events as the historical uprising of January until today constitute us to some extent. And we have events in our history that need to be brought to light, because their weight is no less important, and somewhere these anniversaries may have lost and they do not affect our identity so much. It seems to me that such anniversaries definitely include an important anniversary of events that took place at the end of January 1919 and at the beginning of February of the same year. Well, on January 26, 1919, in line with the commitment made by the previous government of Jędrzej Moraczewski and the next government, united, Ignacy Jan Paderewski, there were elections to parliament, to the Legislative Sejm. These January elections had In addition to the previous decision of Marshal Józef Piłsudski as State Chief of State of 16 January 1919 on the establishment of the government of Ignacy Jan Paderewski A very important dual political importance. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the House of the most political and we should be aware of what really happened 100 years ago. These 2 dates, 16 January and 26 January, these 2 events of the Paderewski government and the elections to the Legislative Sejm are connected with the most important message. On the one hand, the world, i.e. politicians who then ruled the world who met in mid-January in Paris and started the Versailles meeting, the world that won World War I, considered the Polish state independent and sovereign. On the other hand, elections took place on 26 January, and the result of these elections meant that the Polish nation chose the Polish state. It was a much more serious decision, because it was not related to the external decision, the decision of the powers. Of course, this one was important too, but if Poles did not want to have their own country, no one would be able to give it to us because it would not make any sense. On 26 January 1919, the Polish nation went to elections and where the electoral districts consisted predominantly of Poles... Of course, we had tensions with minorities, a total of 5 wars we conducted in 1919 and 1921, especially with neighbours, but imagine that where there were Poles in the electoral districts there was a turnout of 95%. Up to 95% Poles went to the elections on 26 January 1919, thus proving that Poles wanted to have a Polish state, to live in the Polish state after 123 years of captivity. This proof of patriotism, but first of all proof of the awareness of the nation, which has the right to own a country, caused that the Legislative Sejm, which by virtue of these elections was elected in the draft resolution, which will be reading in a moment, is the details of this process, perhaps like no other parliament in Poland's history, perfectly reflected the authentic views of the Polish people. If we were looking for a pattern of Polish parliamentarianism somewhere And we'd like it to be more than 50 pairs or 60%. Poles were going to the elections, only 95% That's where we'd find a reference point in the Legislative Seym. There, we would find this patriotic Polish nation, who told the Polish state yes. Therefore, the Legislative Sejm, which started its rule in Poland on 9 and 10 February, is the Sejm which should be a kind of standard for us, which should be honored, as the Polish people should be honored by Poles. We should have pride and dignity in ourselves. Before I read this draft resolution, I have one more comment I can't tell you about. This will be further mentioned, but I would like to emphasise this in particular. Namely, the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm took place on February 10th. Of course, it was opened by the head of state Józef Piłsudski, acting in the presence of the Prime Minister or, as it was said then, by the President of the Council of Ministers, Ignacy Jan Paderewski, and by other very wonderful Poles who deserved the work of regaining independence by Poland. But the inauguration of this Legislative Sejm after 123 years of losing independence actually took place the day before, February 9th. Where? Of course, where there is a law higher than that, i.e. God's law in the Warsaw Cathedral. The Archbishop of Warsaw Aleksander Kakowski, the host of the place, accepted Members of the Legislative Sejm, and Archbishop Józef Teodorowicz, notabene Member at the Legislative Sejm, one of the 35 priests who sat in it, took an oath from parliamentarians. This is the first and last example in our history that Members vowed before God's altar in the Warsaw Cathedral. This, too, is a sign worth appealing to if, as parliamentarians, we want to have our consciences as pure as possible, and we should and, of course, we all want to do so. This is a Polish tradition in which, I hope, we belong as Senate of the Republic today. I also hope that we will learn from this message from the uprising of the Legislative Sejm and from the beginning of its operation. And now I'm going to present the text of the proposed resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. In November 1918. Poland regained independence after 123 years of partitions. One of the first decisions of the authorities of the Second Republic, headed by the Interim Chief of State, Józef Piłsudski, was the announcement of elections to the Legislative Sejm, which in areas under central authority in Warsaw It took place on 26 January 1919 (with Poland taking over further territories, the supplementary elections took place until March 1922). The order was extremely democratic, five adjectives, granting women passive and active electoral rights. The average attendance was 75%. and in areas inhabited exclusively by Poles it reached up to 95%. This was proof that Poles accepted the existence of their own state, independent and democratic. In the elections to the Constitution, the most votes were won by the National Democracy, whose list (No. 10) was opened by the popular and well-known names: Ignacy Jan Paderewski, Prime Minister of the then government, and Roman Dmowski, Delegate of Poland Reborn to the Peace Conference in Paris which lasted since mid-January 1919. The presence of 8 women in the parliamentary benches, messengers representing right-wing, folk and socialist parties, and as many as 35 priests, mostly well-deserved socialists, was extraordinary. The first meeting of the Chamber was preceded by the solemn Mass celebrated on 9 February 1919 in the cathedral chaired by the Archbishop of Warsaw, Alexander Kakowski, with the participation of the highest authorities and elected Members. At the end of the homily archbishop of Lviv Armenian rite, Józef Teodorowicz, also a Member, received a solemn vow from all gathered. On February 10, 1919, he met in Warsaw in a building on Wiejska Street, after 127 years of break, a parliament of free and sovereign Poland. During the touching opening speech, Mr Józef Piłsudski addressed the nation: "In this hour of great Polish hearts I feel happy to open the Polish Sejm, which will once again be the home of the only master and host of the Polish Sejm. The Legislative Sejm was held between 10 February 1919 and 27 November 1922 under the chairmanship of Marshal Wojciech Trąmpczyński. During that time he adopted the so-called. The Small Constitution and the March Constitution of 1921 and the 342 plenary sessions adopted 571 laws. The parliamentarians' diligence demonstrated their participation in committee meetings and the number of interpellations reported 6869. The main objective of the Legislative Sejm was to merge the Polish lands for more than 100 years under the regime with a total of five legal orders and to unify and codify the law that is constantly growing By winning wars, uprisings and provisions of the Treaty of Versailles, the territory of the Polish state. Another equally important mission was to correct the impact of the huge economic collapse caused by the First World War, as well as to modernise the state in order to strengthen our sovereignty, which was contested by our immediate neighbours. Members had great social sensitivity, setting up laws that burden the state budget, but at the same time meeting the expectations of the widest layers of Polish society (in the area of, among others, Polish society). general education, sickness insurance, 8-hour working day in industry and trade, and the right to rest). The work of this parliament took place under extremely unfavorable conditions, because in 1918 and 1921 Poland waged further wars and uprisings, fighting five external and internal enemies. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the patriotism, effort and creative work of Members of the Legislative Sejm, thanks them on behalf of the Polish people for contributing to the reconstruction of the Independent. At the same time, feeling with the Sejm of the Republic of Poland the successor of the first parliament of the Reborn Poland, the Senate of the Republic of Poland emphasizes that it is the guardian of the continuity of the rich tradition of Polish parliamentarianism and civil liberties. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask you to adopt this draft resolution, of course, by unanimous adoption. I hope that we want, of course, to enter into this beautiful tradition of those prominent people who then sat in the benches of the Legislative Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Żaryn to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We should remember the history of our modern parliamentarians. It is very important that we are talking about the first after the partitions of the Seym chosen in a 5-adjected vote. This took place at a time when the borders of Poland had not yet been established. The elections took place wherever possible. But what is important is that Poland, reborn, followed the path of democracy. Later, in the late '20s, it changed a bit. But then, when the Republic was reborn, there was no discussion about what the system was supposed to be, because everyone stood in the position that the system had to establish citizens through their representatives. And it's a good thing we remember that this resolution is being designed. I think we'll remember... We should also remember the next elections and the next Seym, which also played an extremely important role. I, of course, support this resolution. But the author of the draft resolution, so to speak, leaned only one way. There is a sentence here: in the Constitutional elections the most votes were won by the National Democracy, whose list, number 10... etc., etc. ♪ I'd be like this ♪ accepted if the author had also mentioned other groups. And there were people there, there were socialists. I believe that in the resolution of such an inclination towards one group only should not be. That is why I am making an amendment to delete this sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u8	Mr. Marshal of the Senate! Mr. Marshal of the Seym! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Senator Jan Żaryn very much for this initiative. I believe that it not only fits into the calendar of the century of regaining independence by Poland, but also shows what a complicated and long-term process it has been since the end of World War I, before the formation, approval of borders, the creation of state bodies. At that time the integration of Polish lands, which remained under different administrative systems, was undertaken, because they were under different killers in the past. It was a gigantic job to merge the railroad lines, the roads. I would like to draw attention to what it is absolutely impossible to stress in this resolution, because it concerns a specific event, i.e. elections, at all, this Legislative Sejm and the century of this anniversary. And I would like to draw your attention to what Professor Żarin mentioned, namely the ordination that was introduced. By decree of the then Moraczewski government of 28 November, the solutions in question were adopted. Namely, first of all, such a solution was adopted that the elections are supposed to be 5-adjective, i.e. universal, equal, direct, secret and proportional. Secondly, it was a matter of universality that every Polish citizen, regardless of gender, at the age of 21, had a passive right to vote. High Izbo, for the first time in Europe, women were awarded in 1918. Because this decree is from 1918, universal electoral law. Let me remind you that this happened in some of the Member States of the European Union today at the turn of the 1950s and 1960s. This shows how modern the thought that guided the fathers of our independence was. In addition, I would like to stress that, before the elections to the Legislative Sejm itself, regulations were also adopted at least by the 46-hour week of work, which was a complete novelty in those realities. It meant it was an 8-hour day and so-called. English Saturday with a 6-hour working day. Universal health insurance for workers was also accepted, which was also a complete novelty in the reality of Europe at that time. But this particular direction of thinking has been developed in the Regency Council, which is the council. We talk relatively little about it, because it was mainly active before 11 November 1918. Through the various teams, the departments that were in it actually developed constitutional assumptions, legal assumptions, assumptions relating to different areas of public life. And from this achievement later prime ministers, later parliamentarians, political elite simply benefited, having developed ready-made patterns and ready-made programs. So that this element is extremely significant. I would also like to draw attention to one more thing. High Izbo, working on the March Constitution Which is interesting, because this element repeats itself and you can say that history is the teacher of life The then left, which was in the Legislative Seym, already at that time called for the liquidation of the Senate, insisted that the Senate should be removed from the March Constitution. I would like to remind you of this because the discussion about the role, the presence of the Senate as one of the foundations, the foundations of the political state of Poland for the last almost 100 years has constantly accompanied us. Finally, I would like to mention that 394 Members were elected in these elections, of which... This electoral system was quite complicated because there were no established borders of the Polish state. All of this took place in a situation of unclear status of Wielkopolska and a whole range of lands, which eventually, after 1922 became part of and became an integral part of the Second Republic of Poland. So in fact, these elections took place mainly in the former Kingdom of Poland and Galicia. As a result of these elections, 394 Members were elected, 36% of whom were elected. Members represented National Democracy, 15% Members of the PSL Liberation, 12% Member of the PSL, 9% Members of the Polish Socialist Party. Of course, other smaller groups also joined this Sejm. So it can be said that this Legislative Sejm had a certain balance, because it actually worked out that about 1/3 of the seats had a left, 1/3 of it was something we would call a centre, and 1/3 of the seats had a right. Thus, the March Constitution, which was extremely modern, which was a certain element of political compromises and the mid-century of different trends, was an extremely good and modern constitution for the reality of Europe at that time. I hope that the resolution will be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Marshals! High Izbo! There is indeed a need to work on this resolution. For me, the memory of that Legislative Sejm is connected primarily with the fact that Poland has become, and until then has never been, a Republican state, a state of all equals, without states, without charism of blood, even the priesthood has obtained in the Sejm the same rights as everyone else. It is satisfied that this Sejm was indeed socially sensitive and then introduced rare legislation on working time, emphasising the role of trade unions, as well as trade-free Sundays, which was actually only recently partially introduced in Poland. The role of women, equality of women complements the essence of this important, not only systemic, but also the civilization revolution that the Legislative Sejm has decreed. However, the final phase of the draft resolution, which I will quote, i.e. At the same time, feeling with the Sejm of the Republic of Poland the successor of the first parliament of the Reborn Poland, the Senate of the Republic of Poland emphasizes that it is the guardian of the continuity of the rich tradition of Polish parliamentarianism and civil liberties. It doesn't find any confirmation of it or in the public opinion, where our ratings do not reach the level that probably occurred in those days... And certainly turnout in elections, as rightly emphasized here, is far from what happened then. This should therefore be recognised. Therefore, I believe that the return to the continuity of a rich tradition is unjustified. I propose to delete it, also bearing in mind my own experience, because I think that there is not a good atmosphere around parliamentarians in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u11	Thank you. [[I make such an amendment.]] Mr. Senator, I'd like you to formulate... [[Delete the word "rich"...]] But, Senator, the amendment must be tabled in writing. No amendments may be submitted orally. [[In writing and signed.]] And it has to be signed. [[I know that, Mr. Marshal.]] There's no adjustment so far. Good. Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u12	Gentlemen of the Marshals! High Izbo! I am, of course, very appealing to Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Jan Rulewski to withdraw these amendments, for at least a few reasons. As for the amendment by Marshal Borusewicz, my request is so justified that with the facts we should not discuss, and we certainly should not discuss with them about possible other ideological and historical preferences to which each of us has of course equal right, I to mine, master marshal to mine. But regardless of this equality, there is a factography. If anyone won the election in 1919, it was won by the National Democracy, which was measured primarily by one of the first decisions of the Legislative Sejm, i.e. the election of Marshal Wojciech Trąmpczyński, one of the leaders of the political camp, which in turn involved very close cooperation in the Legislative Sejm, although of course not on all fronts, just National Democracy with the strongest part of the centre, i.e. PSL The reason for this intellectual-political coexistence was very serious. The National Democrats and Vincenty Witos brought their thoughts on Poland from the same organization, which was called the National League and which operated during the partition period. I don't think there's any point in continuing the historical argument here. I'll add that there's another important reason for me. Well, PPS... This party has lost these elections, unlike PSL's release, which can also be considered a possible winner. The measure of emphasis in this sentence of these two names, and Paderewski, and Dmowski, is that I just wanted to connect... I have tried to tell you that these two simultaneous recognitions should be combined. On the one hand, it is about this mentioned international recognition, and it was a great credit to these two figures, Paderewski and Dmowski. We were winners of the First World War and we became participants of the Versailles Congress as winners, not as losers. I kindly inform you that this is a very big difference, as we all know very well. And it was the Polish people who just appreciated it in these elections, he was aware of it. On the other hand, this is internal recognition, i.e. The Polish nation has ruled that it wants to live in its own independent state. This is, in my opinion, a very important conclusion. By the way, of course, do not treat it as a charge, because everyone had the right to do so at the time. It must be said that the owners of democratic values in the Legislative Sejm, however we interpret it, were right-centred parties at that time, and unfortunately not left-wing parties, as is widely recognised today. I don't know if you know who's against the March Constitution. . under which, as a very democratic constitution, one of the most democratic in Europe, we would probably all sign He voted in the Legislative Sejm. Who voted against the March Constitution? Left. This constitution is not the work of the left. This is the work of the Polish right hand, those who won, who represented most of the Polish people. Why should we not emphasize historical truth? Just because one of us has different ideas? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u14	Gentlemen of the Marshals! Minister! High Senate! I am very pleased that we are adopting this resolution to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the inaugural sitting of the Legislative Sejm. On this occasion, I would like to mention the great role played by such people as Marshal Wojciech Trempczyński, and to stress that he was not by chance a Marshal of the Sejm. Namely Wojciech Trąmpczyński was an excellent lawyer and Member of the Reichstag since 1910. His activities were appreciated in Polish environments because he defended both as a lawyer and as a parliamentarian Landowners, Poles, who as a result of Hakata's actions were often forced to rid themselves of their own property. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention that there would not have been a huge work of the Legislative Sejm if it had not been for other works of lawyers, which were concentrated in the Codification Commission, which had yet been appointed by the Chief of State as a group of 44 outstanding lawyers, which was then accepted by the Legislative Sejm. The actions of this Codification Commission Ernest Till... These are the names of those who have drawn up, alongside another professor, the author of the penal code, a new path for codification that was necessary. Because I remind you that we inherited 5 different legal orders, i.e. we had not only Russian, Austrian and Prussian order, but we also had legislation in the form of the Napoleonic Code, which was in force in the former Russian occupation, and Hungarian legislation, which was in force on the border between Poland and Hungary. And these people, who were concentrated in this Codification Committee, were the authors of the Codes. And the criminal code, and the civil code, and the commercial code, which at that time seemed to be one of the most modern and progressive codifications. Prof. Makarewicz, professor at the University of Lviv, was the author of the Penal Code, Ernest Till and Allerhand were the authors of the Commercial Code. We also had outstanding lawyers, such as Fryderyk Zoll, who contributed to the creation of a civil code. I would also like to stress that our March Constitution was one of the most modern constitutions. She predicted the responsibility of the state for the mistakes made by his officers, which was rare at the time. What we are proud of today, that is art. The 77th Constitution, which provides for such responsibility, was at that time a complete novelty. Of course, it was abandoned in the totalitarian, communist system, but at that time it was a novelty on a European scale. I would like to remind you that France has only recently adopted similar arrangements regarding the responsibility of the State Treasury for the actions of officials, e.g. for errors made by the courts. Here I bow to the work of the Legislative Sejm and, you might say, the emanation of this Sejm in the form of actions of the Codification Commission, through which such modern legal solutions could exist and be the glory of Poland throughout Europe, because our commercial code was used as a model for other countries which prepared similar codifications. I would like to highlight another point that might be worth remembering. The high level of legislation, especially code-making legislation, was due to the fact that, first of all, outstanding lawyers were involved, who had great practice and experience in scientific work, and secondly, it was legislation that was created in the perspective of decades, for the future, pro futuro. It was not legislation created under the influence of the moment or certain political requirements. The level of this legislation was very high. This is a pattern. It's worth it for our chamber, the chamber that existed in the March Constitution, to cultivate it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. [[Senator Bielan.]] Oh, and Mr. Senator Bielan. I didn't know that. So you're also Senator Marshal Adam Bielan. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. I would like to remind you that the second reading concludes by referring the draft to the committee in order to respond to the proposals put forward during the discussion. I state that the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission, and I would like to submit a request for a deadline for the committee to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear a voice of opposition, I think the High House has accepted my proposal. Roger that. Thank you very much. In that case, I'm declaring a recess as a target... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let's get a message first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u16	High Senate! 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176, a meeting of the Legislative Commission will be held on the examination of the applications submitted at the 70th Senate meeting for the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Dismissed until 11.15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 44 to 11 minutes 16]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the third agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. We have this report. It is available in print No 1062 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Gentlemen of the Marshals! High Izbo! The committee meeting took place at a time when the break had just been completed. At that additional meeting, the Legislative Commission rejected both amendments by a majority. The first one was brought by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and another by Senator Jan Rulewski. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? [[I disagree with the committee's verdict, but I will remain silent.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] From now on, right? Thank you very much. Once again, I welcome our guests very warmly. Thank you for coming to Marshal Mark Kuchciński with the Minister. Thank you for being here. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the provisions of the draft, i.e. printing No 1062 X, followed by the adoption of the draft print No 1062 S and the amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1, tabled by the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] The amendment was rejected. And we proceed with the vote on Amendment 2, tabled by Senator Jan Rulewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. Who among the senators is in favour of him? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 63 were in favour, no one opposed, 11 senators abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. [[Applause]] Thank you very much to the senators. Mr. Marshal and Minister, thank you for your presence. It is an honor for us to have you visit us. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk, the city of freedom and solidarity; the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk. And I propose that we consider this item as item four of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. [[Mr. Marshal...]] And the senator in what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u20	I'd like to file a request for a recess on behalf of the Law and Justice Club by 12.45.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u21	In that case, I'm declaring a recess until 12:45. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 21 to 12 minutes 45]] I'm reopening the session. We begin to consider the fourth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk, the city of freedom and solidarity; the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk. I would like to remind you that these projects have been submitted by the Senators' groups and are contained in 1078 and 1079 respectively. The committee's report, prepared in accordance with the Rule. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, see print No 1078/1079 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Mark Pęk, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Commission a report on the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk, the city of freedom and solidarity contained in print no. 1078, and on the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk, contained in print no. 1079. A meeting of the Legislative Commission was held today. The history of the legislative process is that 2 separate projects have been submitted. One draft resolution was tabled by the Senators of the Civic Platform Club, the other by the Senators of Law and Justice. Yesterday there was an informal meeting of representatives of both clubs. We have tried to come up with one joint draft of this resolution. However, after our common arrangements, this uniform text of the draft resolution was not supported by the Law and Justice Club, as our colleagues from the Civic Platform were informed yesterday by Senator Martynowski. We therefore returned to the original state at the committee meeting today, i.e. we considered two separate projects. During the committee's work, at the very beginning, Senator Marek Martynowski applied for joint examination of these projects in order to try again to reach a compromise, a common version. This proposal did not meet with the acceptance of the Senators of the Civic Platform. They believed that they had the right to their project, and they wanted to work on the basis of this document that we were able to work together yesterday, but the reality was what it was. I think there's also some background to be explained. The Senators of Law and Justice had a slightly different concept of resolution. We believe that this matter beyond doubt, the controversy that unites us here in the Senate, is the tragic death of President Paweł Adamowicz, the murder committed during the mass event at the president of the city. And we would first of all like to refer to this tragic event, of course with some laconic reference also to the person of the President, to his work, to his achievements as president, as a man. I think that the Civic Platform club had the idea of a resolution much more extensive, a resolution containing also some references of an emotional, judgmental nature, a resolution more glorifying this character, setting it on a pedestal among politicians, people performing public functions in recent years in Poland. Well, it's a matter of assessment, isn't it? Otherwise, it's a form of sleep. President Paweł Adamowicz looks at the political environment that once was with him, and some senators knew him personally, and for us it is a somewhat further figure in this sense. In the end, we were based in committee on both of these projects. The final draft resolution contains 2 large paragraphs directly transferred from the draft resolution by the Civic Platform Club, and the rest was taken from the draft resolution of Law and Justice. Well, I think there was a little excitement at the meeting, I mean. It was evident that the Senators of the Civic Platform object, however, that the base version is this version of Law and Justice. In the final vote on the draft resolution, they did not support the final version proposed by the majority of the committee. Well, here I will conclude my preliminary report and simply present the text of the draft resolution which was finally agreed at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. At the same time, I am signaling that Senator Ziientarski has detected a terminology in the second sentence of this project. I will correct this inaccuracy in due time. For now, I will read exactly the draft resolution that was passed at the committee meeting. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdansk (1965-2019). On 14 January 2019 Paweł Adamowicz, long-time President of Gdańsk, self-government officer and activist of the democratic opposition, died as a result of severe wounds caused by the assassin. He died at a public assembly in Gdansk, where his people expressed their solidarity with those in need in our country. This tragic death shocked Poland and echoed abroad, causing sympathy for the Middle Dead President and the widespread condemnation of the crime he suffered. Paweł Adamowicz was a activist of the democratic opposition during the period of the Polish People's Republic, headed a student strike at the University of Gdańsk in May 1988. Since the beginning of the 1990s, he has been actively involved in public life as pro-Rector of the Ministry of Science and Technology. student, councilman, and then president of the City Council, to take office in 1998 as President of the City of Gdańsk, who held continuously for the next two decades. It was politically shaped by the movement of Young Poland and Gdansk liberals. Above all, however, it was shaped by the great epic of the "Solidarity," which opened the August strike. He built the future of Gdansk, not forgetting how important history and roots are for contemporary people. Conscious that the work of "Solidarity" has a universal dimension that cannot be squandered or who cannot be forgotten has been involved in the creation of the European Solidarity Centre. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses appreciation for the merits of President Paweł Adamowicz, which he laid down in his public activity. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls for respect for democratic methods and mutual respect by all participants of public life in Poland. We strongly believe that only on this condition can we serve the dignified and effective common good and build the prosperity of our Homeland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to authorised representatives of applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Sławomir Rybicki. In the case of printing no. 1078, and Senator Marek Pęk In the case of printing No 1079. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u24	Question for Senator Rybicki. Mr. Senator, what are the differences between the project that was referred to by Senator Pęk and the project that was submitted by a group of Senators of the Civic Platform, as well as the project that was a common acquis of the working group? [[Mr. Marshal, High Senate...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u25	Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Does anyone else want to ask a question? [[Yeah, but not now.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] That's three questions, 'cause I'd like to rub them in. [[Not now.]] I'm asking you now... please. [[Well, not now.]] No, not now. Okay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The proposal made by the Civic Platform club differs substantially from the submission that was made to the Legislative Commission and from the text recommended today by the Legislative Commission. There are some fundamental points. One general remark is that also the proposal of the Law and Justice Club, and the proposal of the committee recommended by Senator Pęk, do not pay tribute to the murdered president. It is in the descriptive part that this event has echoed abroad, causing sympathy for the loved ones of the deceased president and the widespread condemnation of the crime that he was victimized. But there's not a word in the text that the Senate pays tribute or the Senate condemns this cruel murder. Also important is the symbolism of the day that this cruel assassination took place. There is no consent to such a very general formulation that escapes reality. Well, the Poles and the world know that this murder was done during the finals of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help and no whispering of reality will cause it to be different, because that is the fact. We made a compromise proposal to describe this event and this symbolic character of this drama in such a way that it was the day when the inhabitants of Gdańsk and Poland shared the good, as Paweł Adamowicz said in his last words. That's another difference, and that's another reason why we want to make our own proposal. Finally, it is in a text which has been submitted by the Legislative Commission... Actually, there's no mention of Paul Adamowicz. Apart from a short biographical note, taken not from the text of the submission of the Platform, but from the agreed text It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. There is no mention of what kind of man Paul Adamowicz was. And I think that in Polish culture, in Christian culture we have the right to speak about the dead in a good and true way. There is no word that Paul Adamowicz was a good, sensitive man who did good. Finally, there is no provision in the text proposed by the Legislative Commission and there was no provision in the text proposed by the Law and Justice that the Senate of the Republic condemns the act of terror and that the Senate does not agree that there will be no consent to any aggression in public life, that we oppose the speech of hatred and violence in any form. That's not there either. And I think that if we listened even more to the voices of the public, to the behaviour and reactions of hundreds of thousands of Poles, we would know, I think, that the resolution should have such wording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u27	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Mr. Senator Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator... [[I'm the plaintiff.]] Requestor, I'm sorry. So there was a text agreed later, after it was a common text prepared by the Senators of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform, and this as a final proposal was addressed to the committee, whether there was such a...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u29	I'll answer that, Mr. Senator. A good parliamentary custom, not from this term of office, but in general, such a parliamentary acquis, is that when two different texts on the same subject are sent to the Legislative Committee, I think the chairman of the committee is calling informally. However, the custom is also some recognized good of an editorial team composed of representatives of 2 clubs. In this case, it was two Senators of Law and Justice and two Senators of the Platform, with my participation as an applicant of one of the projects. This team has worked out, I think, a very good compromise proposal that takes into account many of the proposals of Law and Justice, but also, I think, worthy of honoring the memory of Paul Adamowicz, is also a firm opposition to aggression in public life. We broke up in consensus, having worked out the text, and only after a while did it turn out that this text did not receive any formal acceptance, I understand, of the bodies of Law and Justice, which I very much regret. I don't know if you have this text, I'll read it completely in the discussion... I believe that there is still a moment in this House for reflection as part of the second reading, so that the draft resolution commemorating the murdered President of Gdańsk, Paweł Adamowicz, is adopted in a form that points to the reflection of the House, and in the content which I believe corresponds to the expectations of millions of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u30	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u31	I've got two questions for Senator Pop at one point grouped. I am aware that you have been distant from those events and even from sensing the drama of these events, so perhaps this is how my questions try to restore the essence... You write in the second sentence... Sorry, you report on behalf of the committee: you died at a public assembly in Gdansk, where the people of Gdansk expressed their solidarity with those in need in our country. [[Voice from the room: Sad events.]] Exactly. Actually, our history, Polish, also mine, indicates that in Gdansk there were various speeches in which people were killed, even dozens of people. And here you don't have a date, nor do you specify this event with a name... this event doesn't have a name. Maybe it's just a coincidence, some kind of escape... That's the first question. And the other. I do not understand the context at the end: the Senate calls for respect for democratic methods and mutual respect... Democratic methods in relation to potential killers or to some part of the public opinion that does not follow these methods or does not want to obey them? I don't get it either. It's an understatement. In the first one No ending, in the latter No entry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u32	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u33	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, well, you're expressing your opinion... I find it difficult to convince you of this second doubt, because it seems to me that the content of the paragraph in which the Senate calls for respect for democratic methods and mutual respect is so obvious and clear that it is no longer possible. As for the first paragraph, I think that here there are no specific terms, additional dates because the event is so fresh and for all known and obvious that we know what we are talking about. [[But it's not just for today...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u34	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u35	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, how did you get to something that wasn't written here that this tragic event took place during the finale of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help? Well, do you want a man who's a senator to sign off on this project by voting in favour? Mr. Senator, this is a terrible event. He will give us God so that we will never see such a thing, nor will any of our children ever have a light to the sky of the Great Orchestra. Did those who made this text especially not want to add this short passage, these few words about it happening at a time like this? All Poland or 90% Poles have seen it and experienced it so far. The best evidence is that one girl was able, through her appeal, to collect 16 million into a can of sleep. President Adamowicz. How do you want me to vote in favour of a bill that doesn't have that substance? [[Voices from the room: Resolutions.]] Resolutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u36	Thank you very much. Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, I'd like to see more questions than one. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u37	I have four questions for the senator. It seems that these questions that have just been raised here indicate that the questioners do not know the draft resolutions... [[Well, I'm sorry.]] First thing. The question of Senator Fedorovich is why the draft of the Senators of Law and Justice does not mention the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help... [[Senator Marek Pęk: None.)]] I would like to point out that this is not on the Platform project either. Could you confirm that, Senator Bang? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Second question. Senator Rulewski says this date is...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u38	But, Senator, you're debating, debating more than asking a question right now. I have to keep an eye on... [[But I'd like to ask your senator.]] I am filing my personal appeal to you to silence your emotions. If the senator thinks there should be such a record, he has the opportunity to make such an amendment. Mr. Senator, Senator Pięk is really far from forcing you to vote for this motion for a resolution. We vote according to our conscience and in our conscience we decide whether we vote in favour or not. You're welcome... Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a difficult time. Please don't use this moment to raise your emotions, because we really don't need these emotions. There you go, Mr. Senator. Continue with the questions, but just so they're questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u39	The second thing I'd like to ask you is a matter of date. In the draft of the PiS senators we have in the first paragraph the given date and it is, so to speak, communicative, and in the draft of the Senators of the Platform, which is compared here, there is no date at all. So the accusation that this date is, I would say, weak... The third point is to compare the atmosphere associated with this fatal event... In both projects there are very similar wordings: in the draft of the Senators of the Civic Platform is the formulation of a day in which the inhabitants of Gdańsk and Poland shared the good, and in the draft of the Senators of the PiS there is a time when the inhabitants of the Civic Platform expressed their solidarity with the needy. These are really very similar terms. And my last question to the rapporteur's senator. It's about those words about damnation. Well, the point is that in the final paragraph of the Platform project, we condemn this act of terror, and in the draft Law and Justice, we have it in the first paragraph. There is a record of widespread condemnation of crime. So, really, these differences... It is simply a matter of a certain attitude, of reading into it with good intentions, of understanding the motives of other writers. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u40	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, it is indeed as you say, Senator Wind, that in any of these projects we have been working on, the name of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid has not been given. Affirmative. And thank you, Mr. Marshal, for helping me out of this argument with Senator Fedorovich. I don't force anything on anyone, I'm just the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission. I'm trying to do it objectively and honestly. That's my job. And as for Senator Wind's other remarks, I agree, too. As regards this draft resolution, it would be possible to use such a legal concept that clear issues do not require additional interpretation and clarification. I think that with the minimum of goodwill and the communication of the common language all the messages of this project Both the condemnation of the crime and its unambiguous identification, location in time and space, the message for the future We're able to read it together.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Wczyła, later Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u43	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, because, despite this long discussion, I still don't understand what the difficult moment in which the PiS senators are is, and what is the difference between political correctness that actually dictates And that's the social expectation. To pay tribute to a murder victim who is unprecedented... Well, unless it's a precedent for death, the murder of Narutowicz. And it turns out there's some other political correctness that doesn't allow us to pay tribute to that person. Please explain to me, Senator, the difficult moment of this situation of yours, which does not allow you to accept this agreed project, and how the political correctness of the party differs from the political correctness generally understood.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u44	Senator, in one sentence: this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations and I am not going to go into such a vicious policy here, with clear bad will. Let me just keep this question quiet, because I don't understand... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u45	Thank you very much. Bravo! Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'd like to... Because I think everyone will compare this joint project, worked out, and the one you submitted. I'd like to ask. And ask for an answer because you're not just talking to us, to the senators, but also to everyone interested. Which guided Law and Justice that you couldn't agree to such a paragraph: This is a quote from President Adamowicz, Gdansk is a city of freedom and solidarity. He left the city modern, open, tolerant, friendly to residents and visitors. What disturbed Law and Justice? And the second quote about President Adamowicz: "He was a good and sensitive man with a natural openness to the fate of other people and care for them. With his work in mind, we will not allow this death to be wasted. Here's the reference to the future. Tell me what the Law and Justice in these two quotes... [[What's bothering you...]] ...it's bothering you what's bothering you here. Tell me honestly, because you probably had a discussion about it. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u47	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Well, I've talked about it a few times before. You will allow me to speak on my own behalf, not on behalf of the whole Law and Justice, because I am not authorized at this point, as rapporteur of the committee, to act on behalf of the whole Law and Justice. Law and Justice will vote, possibly individual senators In the debate. And I've already told you several times that here it was mostly about a difference in the original concept of the resolution. We, as the Law and Justice, as men, were not close to sleep. Paul Adamowicz, we do not know him from such a point of view, whether he was a good, warm man. These are very personal, very judgmental, emotional issues. I don't think the Senate en block has to speak that way. Here the most important are the facts, the tragic criminal context, the public. And this is all precisely here, in this draft resolution included. And once again, I stress: the state in the Civic Platform had a different concept of this resolution. I don't deny it, but most people still need to be convinced. So far, it hasn't worked. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am addressing the rapporteur. Actually, I'm talking about the answer to some formalities. You said that the negotiating team had worked out a good project and that it was in such a mood that you broke up. It was a body in a way... maybe informal, but it was a committee. Well, with some hope it was possible to proceed to the procession today. The question is, what happened next? Who required you or your decision not to accept it? Why did this happen? [[Senator, but that's the question...]] Has any non-formal consideration decided that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u51	Excuse me. Senator, that's a question you just asked. [[But I didn't hear the factual answer, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator, take a look at the transcript later. Yeah, well, you should have listened. Once again, I am appealing to you that we should refrain from... [[I'm done asking. I've already asked my question.]] ...from building unnecessary emotions. This discussion shouldn't... [[It's curiosity, not emotions.]] We want to commemorate the murdered man. Let us do this. There you go, next person. Who's asking the questions? What are your questions for? There you go, Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u52	My question is justified, because I also participated in the creation of this joint draft resolution, which was really conceptual and compromise. I have a question for the senator. First paragraph: On January 14, 2019, he died of severe wounds caused by the bomber. I read it from your draft resolution. Paweł Adamowicz, longtime... The second sentence states that he was killed at the convention. Here he died of severe wounds caused by the bomber, and here it is as if another man died at a public assembly in Gdansk. Mr. Senator, don't you think that the first paragraph adopted in our joint study was better suited to the tragedy of this event? Speaking of this cruel murder, not only did he refer to the President's murder, but he also gave up this... I now refer basically to Mr. George Fedorovich's question. We agreed together that this day of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help will be called the day when the inhabitants of Gdańsk and Poland shared the good. And that was our arrangement. I think this arrangement was very good and co-ordinated. And now the second question. Why, knowing that President Adamowicz was very attached to the European Solidarity Centre, you completely threw your... [[Voices from the hall: But this is...]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u53	Senator, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that Senator Marek Pęk is the rapporteur of the committee and it is not his job to talk about the informal meeting that took place. This is not the job of the president, the senator. I can also tell you what I have already talked about very calmly and in a balanced way at the Senior Convention. Well, it's very bad that these two projects have come in. There's a possibility in the regulations that's been applied... I propose that we apply such a principle here in the Senate to talk about the text first and then submit projects later. It's a possibility. Well, we would have ended this discussion a long time ago, paid our respects and condemned the crime. You're in a hurry. You should have talked. There's no consensus, there's no way out... We came out to meet you because we want to... I personally, ladies and gentlemen, have shortened the deadline for both projects just so that we can pay tribute to the dead, murdered in a beastly way to the president and condemn it, and now you are clinging to it. I'm sorry I'm using the ugly word. The details are to arouse emotions. They are really not necessary for us, for the state or for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u54	Mr. Marshal, may I address one point? She's obvious. Let me explain one thing to you here. [[The European Centre...]] There it is. Look. We took a paragraph from one of your projects. So that you're not right about that, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u55	I'll do it premeditatedly. I'm going to make a formal motion to end the questioning because I think the dead president deserves honor and respect, not malicious questions. I'm about to file a formal motion. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u56	Thank you. Mr. Senator, today we adopted a resolution related to Andrzej Małkowski. Tell me what the difference is here. Should we make a difference in describing and identifying the good qualities of the activities of different people? In the resolution about Małkowski it was possible to include many descriptions related to his activity, praise, show, extract elements of his life story, etc. And here, as Senator Zdrojewska said, you are defending yourselves against two sentences defining the silhouette and the nature of President Adamowicz's actions. [[Thank you very much, Senator. Time's up.]] Are there different conventions in force? Why are you here and not there?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u57	Thank you, ma'am, for asking me a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. Was this the subject of the committee's deliberations? Tell me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u58	This was not discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u59	Thank you very much. There you go. Senator Grodzki. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: This is not an answer.]] I'll file a formal motion to end the questions in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the murdered man deserves respect, not to ask politically malicious questions. [[Voice from the room: This is your assessment.]] After the question is asked by Senator Grodzki, I will file a formal motion to end the questioning. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I share the opinion of the marshal that the brutally murdered president deserves respect. I have a question for the senator. You yourself mentioned that your environment was a little further away from President Adamowicz than ours. It is so unwritten, but it is a good custom that the work on commemorative resolutions is carried out by people who are most oriented on the subject. Professor Wind worked on a resolution on Boy Scouts, Mr Zientarski is an amateur astronomer, you deal with the historical resolutions of Prof. Żaryn, etc. Don't you think Senator Rybicki knew better about the dead? Mr. President Adamowicz? Maybe it's worth considering whether the text of the project is more complete? That's my question for the senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u61	Thank you very much. You're welcome. [[That's an opinion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u62	That's your opinion, my opinion is different. I was working on a draft resolution and I think the final text is better.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u63	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. Again, please. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The procedure is still underway, and we have a chance. What I'm appealing for To adopt a resolution that will be worthy of the High House and to pay due tribute to the murdered President Adamowicz, because the draft which the committee proposes does not pay tribute. During the examination of the earlier item on the agenda, Senator Żaryn spoke in the debate and said a very important sentence, which I will mention: why should we not take account of the truth simply because we have different views? I call on you, with different views, to pay due respect to President Adamowicz and to properly describe the drama of this act. Neither the Platform's draft nor the compromise project have any wordings... that simply mention the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. We came up with a compromise proposal on Law and Justice to formulate it as in Paul Adamowicz's statement, his last statement, on which he said about the day on which the inhabitants of Gdańsk and Poland shared the good. I think it is not unusual, it is obvious fact: on that day Poles shared the good. I will read the draft resolution, the one that was created last night through a compromise between the Platform senators and the Senators of Law and Justice. A resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk. The cruel murder took from Gdansk President, and Poland a prominent self-governmentman and politician, a friendly and open to others. Tragism of this event increases the time in which it took place, the day when the inhabitants of Gdańsk and Poland shared good, as Paweł Adamowicz said in his last words. Paweł Adamowicz was a activist of the democratic opposition during the period of the Polish People's Republic, headed a student strike at the University of Gdańsk in May 1988. Since the beginning of the 1990s, he has been actively involved in public life as pro-Rector of the Ministry of Science and Technology. student, councilman, and then president of the City Council, to take office in 1998 as President of the City of Gdańsk, who held continuously for the next two decades. It was politically shaped by the movement of Young Poland and Gdansk liberals. Above all, however, it was shaped by the great epic of the "Solidarity," which opened the August strike. He built the future of Gdansk, not forgetting how important history and roots are for contemporary people. Conscious that the work of "Solidarity" has a universal dimension that cannot be squandered or who cannot be forgotten has been involved in the creation of the European Solidarity Centre. Paweł Adamowicz knew that the history of the nation was a relay of generations. In this relay, he took an honorable place. With his life, he testified that politics could and should be a prudent service to the common good, and a politician a selfless man, supporting the disfellowshipped and the weakest. As he has said many times, Gdansk is a city of freedom and solidarity. He left the city modern, tolerant, friendly to residents and visitors. He was a good and sensitive man with a natural openness to other people's fate and care for them. With his work in mind, let us not allow this death to be wasted. President Paweł Adamowicz died in a criminal assassination. The Senate of the Republic of Poland condemns this act of terror and hatred, stressing that there will be no consent to any acts of aggression in public life, and opposes speech of hatred and violence in every form. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls for respect for democratic methods and mutual respect by all participants of public life in Poland. We strongly believe that this is the only condition that can be served with dignity and efficiency to the common good and to the welfare of the Homeland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the murdered President of Gdańsk, Paweł Adamowicz. Hello His memory! The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club rise, applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I submit this agreed draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk, as an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not here as a politician. Even though I'm a politician, I'm a senator. But as a friend, a friend of the murdered President of Gdansk. I was hoping this death would lead to reflection. All of them. I don't have that hope right now. I had it until yesterday when the text was agreed, the common text, the text that everyone agreed to. An hour later, the signal came that the PiS was pulling out of this arrangement. The situation is obviously difficult, it is difficult, but that does not mean that we should not speak about this tragic murder with one voice. The project agreed yesterday, but also the project introduced by Senator Sławomir Rybicki, were not extreme projects. And you shouldn't be a marshal calling for peace. We're all calm. In this text, no one wrote that it was a political crime. Although in my opinion it was because it was about politics being in the most political, spectacular place, and there were also appropriate comments of the criminal and the cry of the criminal that it was through the Platform, etc. This text did not highlight the whole context that I thought had led to this situation, concerning President Paul Adamowicz and his family. For several years, a massive attack on all state institutions: the tax office, the prosecutor's office, public media, especially government television. Picking up the D.A.'s office and the whole family. No, we didn't put it in the draft resolution. We didn't write in the context that we saw and witnessed. And explain to me: why didn't you want to write that it was a murder, a cruel murder? Explain to me why you did not want to take the phrase that Paul Adamowicz was a model of a self-governmentman who with his life testified that it was a service to the common good. Tell me: why do you not want to write that Gdansk is a city of freedom and solidarity, even though it is? Explain to me why in this draft resolution In this project of yours, because unfortunately this is your draft resolution, yours and ours, so it happened. There's no protest against hate speech. [[I can see that.]] This speech of hatred is a common phenomenon that we face. This murder is a shadow, a shadow on Poland, a shadow on the family, a shadow on institutions that did not prevent it, but on the contrary: using a massive propaganda attack, they pushed in this direction. Let this tragedy become a good thing Let's learn from it so that it doesn't repeat itself. 'Cause if there's no such conclusion, unfortunately, that's the situation. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u67	Senator Klich is speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Ladies and gentlemen! We have long wondered, working on a draft resolution, how to draw up a document that would be acceptable to all of us. Senator Rybicki consulted Senator Borusewicz and me almost every sentence of this project that we have submitted. And one of the main things was how to appeal to our common sensitivity. Because every one of us in this room isn't just the senator of this party or any other party. Each of us has a heart. And these hearts, I think, burst on that day just the same, no matter what political option we represent. These broken hearts result from the fact that probably none of us, really, really didn't expect that there might be an event in which for political reasons a man elected in democratic elections is murdered, a man who has proven his life's attachment to certain values A man who not only had a political mandate but also engaged in various good public actions. And the dramatic symbolism of this death comes from the fact that during the action of doing good, a man who does this good dies at the hands of the bomber, that hatred prevails over the good, that evil prevails over the heart's reflex. We were convinced that the State would adopt this draft resolution, maybe make some minor amendments to it. Turns out it's different. It turned out that not only as Senator Pęk wrote, we have different concepts of commemorating the death of the dead. Paul Adamowicz, but we also have different sensibilities. Let's just answer the question when we decide whether our different sensibilities are worth not leaning the same way over this death. Is this death, as I said, a symbol of the victory of evil over the good of that day, that Sunday, not obliging us to give up part of our sensibilities, to overcome the common sensitivity of our hearts? Hence, Dear State, this compromise text of the draft resolution, adopted formally, because the editorial team was a formal team, it was a team working for the committee, which was to decide later. This team has developed a consensus, which is an expression of the common sensitivity of the whole of our House. And it seems to me, no more, that I am convinced that this should remain so, that it should be the consensus that we have worked out should be what we will show outside Poland and Poles as an expression of our common sensitivity. In this joint project there are 3 essential elements that we have asked today and to which we want to convince you from the PiS. First of all, attitude isn't the same as a resume. Posture isn't the same as functions. Bet is more than just the facts that make up our lives. The attitude is attachment to certain values, the attitude is attachment to certain obligations, the attitude is faithfulness to some ideals. That is why I really ask you to reflect and reflect on such a human reflection on why in the final text this paragraph should not be about Paul Adamowicz's attitude. Secondly, freedom and solidarity. We are in this House because of this and thanks to it there is at all this House that for our generations And there are two represented here. Freedom and solidarity were inseparable. It was difficult to think of solidarity without thinking about freedom, and vice versa. And so Paul Adamowicz thought. Freedom is inseparable from solidarity. Solidarity cannot go separately against freedom. There is no freedom without solidarity. We do not understand why these words contained in this compromise proposal should not be included in the final version of the resolution. Finally, ladies and gentlemen... Not from now on, hate speech has been spoken of, but since that terrible Sunday it has finally been spoken of as it should be said. Poles rebel against hate speech. Poles expressed their opposition to hate speech on the streets of Gdansk and other cities. Then why shouldn't the High Senate object to hate speech? Why wouldn't the High Senate condemn acts of aggression? Why should this sentence about condemning acts of aggression, this statement of opposition to hate speech be removed from the final version of our resolution? I leave you with these questions and at the same time call for the sensitivity of colleagues to be a common sensitivity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u69	You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Marshal Karczewski spoke a few important words before leaving our assembly. I'd like to address them first. I wish your marshal was here right now because I'd rather talk to him. Namely, Mr Karczewski, first of all, pointed out that the mode of working on this resolution was wrong, that such resolutions had to be submitted in advance as proposals and earlier, so I understood, set up teams which would have worked consensually on them and presented a joint, agreed proposal. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you write those words down, because we're not much left of this term, but maybe there'll be some resolutions, and then we'll have to follow them strictly. Because so far it has not been observed, and it has not been observed by many authors of draft resolutions from the formation which Mr. Marshal Karczewski represents. I have been on the Legislative Committee since the beginning, all these proposed resolutions are passed by us and I myself have repeatedly made such proposals that before with certain projects 'Sure, because of course it doesn't apply to all resolutions, it's clear With some sensitive draft resolutions someone will come out to demonstrate their attachment to one idea or another, but he has tried to communicate with the other party before, with the opposition party, whether it is possible to agree on a common text. All of my proposals were taken with a nod and that was the end of it. So I hope that what you said to Marshal Karczewski was not said just for the sake of this debate. Secondly, Mr. Marshal was polite to also appeal to respect the memory of the tragically deceased, murdered man, Mr. Paweł Adamowicz. It's been talked about here a little bit, but I'm going to say something else. Namely, first of all, we need to show respect for the living, so that then there will be no such events as the ones that happened. And this respect is shown to the living, I would say, sparingly. It was said here that you spoke to Marshal Borusewicz about how President Paweł Adamowicz was treated, how he was treated by public institutions, especially how he was treated by public media. And these descriptions are, today, they're reminiscent. [[All media.]] And we need to remind them. [[And the platform.]] [[All media.]] And we need to remind them. Well... Mr. Senator Bonkowski, please be quiet. Well, I don't recall a time like this... [[Voice from the room: Hate speech.]] ...to follow the man, whether the president of the city or anyone else, to run with the journalist's microphone in quotes, because he cannot be called a journalist "Why did you take money from criminals?" Without any evidence, without anything at all. And such activity did not meet with any reaction, with any reaction from the ruling camp, and until today it does not meet. Well, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, what happened has happened. I don't tie these facts directly at the moment, these cases are still under investigation. Let's hope it's honest and honest. I'm just pointing out that if a certain climate is generated, maybe that's where it ends and maybe it doesn't. History shows that it hasn't ended many times. And that is why, when we talk about respect, we should, as I think, remember what is happening today, now, tomorrow and to those who are alive and who are acting. That's two. Thirdly, Senator Pęk explaining why there was no passage in this draft resolution that speaks of certain personal features of President Adamowicz, namely that he was a good man, sensitive that he was very sensitive to the issue of poverty, to the people in need Not only because of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, but every day, as president, he said that, well... he didn't know President Adamowicz. Well, I have to say, that's a pretty weak argument. We make various resolutions here, very often they relate to people we do not know, and about which personal qualities we write, but based on certain facts, on certain information, opinions, etc. In order not to be literal, I will quote a passage. Not so long ago we passed a resolution on the merits of Professor Pelczar, an excellent oncologist, whom I believe none of us knew. And there was the following passage: he was a man of extraordinary goodness, of unparalleled ethical values and deep morale. What do we take it from? Of course, we take it from what they were about him. As far as this part of President Adamowicz's activities is concerned, these opinions were generally positive. And, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if everyone knows that. It's a complete paradox. That the killer's family... There were probably seven children in this family... [[Voice from the room: Eight.]] Eight? There were eight children in it. The killer's family was nesting in some hole and mother. The one who is in such a tragic situation today asked President Adamowicz for help. And this apartment where they lived, the communal apartment, was given to her by Adamowicz. And he died at her son's hand. So it seems to me that we need to break down a little bit, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, in this matter. This isn't about political aspects. This is not about praising President Adamowicz's attitude as a proponent of certain views, certain political actions, etc., because I understand that this would not be acceptable, and this was not in these proposals. The point is to honor him as a man. Not only because of what Senator Klich was talking about, that he had certain functions, positions, etc., but because he was also a sensitive, good man. And that is why, Mr Marshal, I would like to say that I, of course, support this draft agreed, which turned out to be unagreed, but if it were not adopted, I would nevertheless like to create an opportunity for this resolution to be adopted in a consensual manner. I will therefore allow myself to make two amendments. One. After the third paragraph, the following paragraph is added: Paweł Adamowicz of course Gdansk is a city of freedom and solidarity. He left the city modern, tolerant, friendly to residents and visitors. He was a good and sensitive man with a natural openness to the fate of other people and a concern for them. This is the first amendment. Two. After the fourth paragraph, the following sentence is added: The Senate of the Republic of Poland condemns this act of terror and hatred, stressing that there will be no consent to any acts of aggression in public life, and opposes the speech of hatred and violence in every form. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that today, when you use the phrase "hate speech," they show each other. But it's not in this text. In this text is a simple statement that as we sit here, we... I don't think we used hate speech here in the Senate. I don't remember that. Those were absolute exceptions. So we are absolutely predestined to conclude without hypocrisy, without hypocrisy such a passage in this resolution. That's what I'm asking. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u71	You have a voice, Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What happened on Sunday, at the moment that was or was supposed to be the greatest moment of the beginning of the year, that is, at the moment of doing good... Today there are probably no words that could express our regret, and that's all we want to say to others, and especially to posterity. It is difficult for each of us to find ourselves in a situation where a man who is crazy takes another's life in such a way, brutally, with hatred, with great aggression, but also with a political manifesto or manifesto to be heard and repeated. That's what the bomber wanted. For years. This is a moment when we all seem to have a great responsibility. We've got a lot of work to do. We have to do everything we can to keep this from happening again. If we look at our history, we'll see that similar events have taken place. At that time, we promised ourselves that this would never happen again, and yet the beginning of the year showed that tragedy had again fallen upon our nation. Ladies and gentlemen, political dispute Because it is most often referred to here, it is an indispensable element of democracy. He should be conducted, especially since in the Polish parliament or in the Polish public debate there are no representatives of the various environments that should be represented. It is on us, politicians who sit in this House, who sit in one Chamber and in the other, that we have a heavy responsibility to ensure that different voices, different views, are reflected in the public debate, even in the speakers, as part of what we do every day. However, the need for a political dispute must not mean: it must not mean The consent to the language of hatred, that we should look at each other hatefully and treat each other hostilely. We cannot depreciate the values that others present. We can't make fun of others, we can't humiliate them. And when we look at the last years in Polish politics, we will see that it has often been so. We couldn't argue with each other wisely, but we pointed at others with our finger and said, "How bad are you, how bad are you?" It's not just sleep. President Adamowicz, but also many other politicians felt it on their own and was often accused unfairly. And others were very quick to follow that opinion and to give in to a certain atmosphere. We know where this leads. It is another thing to say that we disagree with the senator, the Member, the Minister, the Prime Minister or the president of the club, and that we attack him. It is another way of saying that someone is wrong, wrongly doing, and another way of saying: I disagree with his ideas, views, I have better, more interesting, different, different from the ones he presents. See how many interviews important politicians used words that shouldn't be in public opinion or public space, stupid, shithead, bad man. I don't want to bring in others, worse, for example. Dumb-ass. Such words appeared in interviews with important people who should set an example and show that we should function differently. My colleague, who is an excellent Polishist, called me after this tragedy and said: Grzegorz, we already learn from Polish language lessons what the dispute really is and how we should lead it. Not that if we have no arguments, we use threats. I quote that to my friend. And in public space, as I noticed, when there are no arguments, when there are no other ideas, there are threats, slanders and blasphemies. This later leads to the atmosphere we have in Poland today. Because we have her to a very, very serious degree today. And today before us, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great call to fight this language of hatred, with this speech of hatred, with the behaviors that take place. People have the right to criticize politicians. They have every right to criticize us. People have a right to disagree with us. They have the right to disagree with the opinion of one TV or the other. People have the right to disagree with each other. More than that: we have the right to disperse, having different opinions all the time. But even if we split up and have different opinions, we must bear in mind one thing: a great respect for the other person who is opposite us and will argue with us. Because she has her values. She has her thoughts. She has opinions that we should respect. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the moment at which we should ask ourselves whether we are able to return to such standards, that... We are not talking about such a passionless agreement with these views, we are not talking about a passionate agreement with what someone else is saying. It's about whether we can really argue with each other, whether we can show our better ideas, better solutions, or whether we can't do it. You know exactly, because in this House too, we have talked about how easily we can accuse each one of us, how easily we can corner each one of us, like people today. It's not just politicians. In fact, they are vulnerable to slanders, hate speech, attacks, especially those anonymous ones that appear in the Internet space, and how often we suffer when there are no people around us who defend us and we cannot defend ourselves. How we suffer when we have a sense of injustice because we want to do a lot of good, but the circumstances or the people we've met want to take advantage of our goodness. I'm not a member of the Civic Platform, and I only knew the president from official ceremonies. And when I flew to the President's funeral... I will remind you that there was an incident a few years ago when a madman ran into the office of one of the parliamentarians and also murdered. That madman had a list of politicians he wanted to murder. I was on that list, too. I know exactly what feelings they have for a man who collides with hatred or something that could actually cost him his life. I was at that funeral and received from the airport my dear friend, who was President Adamowicz's rival in 2010. And we didn't go into the basilica. We went to one of the squares to see what was really happening today among all of us, Poles and Poles. And there, on one of the squares in Gdansk, underneath the screen, we noticed something amazing. My colleague, who was campaigning, ran this campaign very substantively. And I even remembered all kinds of... Well, because I supported him in this campaign. Back then, in 2010, I was head of the party. And it was something that stood in front of two people, one on the left, the other on the right, so it can be generalized. But they could run this campaign... You're not gonna find any article on the fact that there was a hate speech somewhere, that someone was calling names. We stood in the crowd and saw one thing: that there is no consent among Poles and Poles to such treatment of each other, that there is no consent to such a speech of hatred and such an atmosphere in Poland. To be honest, I was convinced that this was the most tragic event that would make us Those who can make a lot of changes can do a lot. There will be a really serious reflection and a desire to shake hands and say that yes, we will argue on arguments, but we will discuss things differently with each other. It could have happened today. I did not know about this meeting or these arrangements, but I remember that when I was in the Lower House of the Polish Parliament, in the Sejm, it was always in similar situations when there were special, extraordinary events, we agreed with the Marshal of the Sejm There were representatives of all political parties, including independent Members The single text of the project, so that there is no longer any discussion in the Chamber, so as to show everyone that at such a tragic moment, at such an important moment we can unite, we can be together and show that there is solidarity among us and towards us. I know, Mr. Marshal, it's time... I'm almost done. Believe me, for me, I think that this time is very difficult for all of us. I would like to conclude by saying, Mr. Marshal, my fellow Members, that I do not think we need some kind of cross-party agreement today. That's not what we need. We need it today... On the contrary, we could say that we need a heated discussion about what our foreign policy is, economic policy, what with teachers, what the public media are supposed to look like, and so on. Those topics are very simple. We need this discussion, just let it be substantive, let it be respectful to the other man. I'll say it again, with respect for the other man. I repeat once again, Mr. Marshal, colleagues from Law and Justice, from the Civic Platform, I turn to everyone who is in this Chamber today that I am not from the environment from which the dead originate. President Adamowicz, but I believe that just like in 2010 after the Smolensk disaster or many other important moments, tragic for us, we were able to respect the one facing us in political views or on the other side of the political barricade, as we say... I have such a request, no appeal, only a request, if I may direct it from this speaker, that we respect those who know the President best. They did not allow them to write this text, and in silence and concentration they accepted it. May this tragic moment, today's memory, be the beginning of our respect for another man. That's what I'm asking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u73	You have a voice, Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the face of death, sometimes it's best to remain silent. I think it would have been a good thing. It was one of the possibilities. If we had adopted the draft resolution commemorating President Adamowicz unanimously in silence. Well, unfortunately, it didn't. We have an open space for reflection and discussion. As far as the texts of these draft resolutions are concerned... I may not be a very sensitive person, but from my point of view, these lyrics about being aren't really that different. The fact that we will adopt such a resolution is in itself a tribute, a condemnation of this act. Right? So we argue unnecessarily and nevertheless about secondary matters. The fact that the Senate leaned over it is the most important thing here. Since we're discussing this, if you don't mind, I'd like to take a few minutes to reflect, which you've encouraged here, Marshal Borusewicz. The point is that we should actually think about it, a little cold, a little cold, not emotionally, although the emotions in all of this are extremely important and for the first hours we were in such specific emotions and each one of us was definitely experiencing this in its own way... But let's try now that it's been almost two weeks since this tragedy, to think about what happened and what the lessons are. What are my thoughts? Ladies and gentlemen, first thing I've been thinking about... My reflection is going towards the system of upbringing. What are some of the values of bringing up young people today, the young generation? Because this man was relatively young, went to school, had a family, a large family. So what are these values? Ladies and gentlemen, this incident shows that there is something wrong with these values. Today, fame, media presence, the existence of the world for a second, for a minute, becomes a value so great that some are willing to commit the worst crime for it. And that, unfortunately, is not the only case. These cases in recent years have been... well, maybe not that much, but a lot. There were a lot of them in the world, and Poland is not free from it either. I think fame at all costs, without any cover... This is the first case. And what I think should really be a matter of thought for educators, teachers, families. Second case, also related to upbringing. Ladies and gentlemen, it's like this is the third generation... In fact, it began in my generation; the 1970s were the beginning of such an upbringing, in which defencelessness becomes a virtue. The virtue is defencelessness. If something's wrong, if we're being mugged, we raise our hands, we don't defend ourselves. Even today, in the Boy Scouting Resolution, something like this appeared, so that Boy Scouts, God's weapons, were not somehow linked to the paramilitary organization, which, I say, is preparing for violence. However, one form of help to others in need is also to stand up for someone who is directly threatened. And this situation, which took place on the stage in Gdansk, was extremely exciting for me. After all, there was a whole group... Well, I don't know, I've only seen it very inaccurately, but there were men there. Here, unfortunately... I don't know if you'd mind that I'm not referring to the fact that there were ladies and gentlemen... So, you were there, and for a good few minutes, no one was able to react. It was some kind of complete defenselessness. I ignore the fact that there were also law enforcement services, which should be prepared for this in a more professional way. But about this professionalism in a moment, now I'm talking about the natural reflex of defense, the reflex of standing up for someone. We are, so to speak, exposed to defenselessness. That should get us thinking, too. Third thing, maybe even harder. And here, perhaps again, or to those who listen to us, I will put myself even more at risk. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this man, for a few seconds or about a minute on stage, empathized, I would say, with the impudence of the perpetrator who committed such a terrible act and felt unpunished. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an issue that is already going beyond the margin of proper discussion in Europe today, because today, one of the European identifiers is, as it were, the abolition of the death penalty. I do not want to get involved here, I just want to point out that the abolition of the death penalty in Europe has a price. We can see and see the positives of this phenomenon, but it has a price. And this event, in my opinion, is an example of the price that Poland, which Europe pays for the impunity of such murderers. Because he's unpunished. Right? Such a manifesto of the criminal's impunity, even more spectacular, was the situation in Norway with Anders Breivik, who murdered 77 people and, referring to the European culture of human rights, accused you of having bad conditions in prison. That should get us thinking, and it kind of describes the situation we're in. And how in this axiological situation in Europe do we defend ourselves or avoid such events? Undoubtedly the price we pay for this is greater tasks imposed on various kinds of services, on the police, on special services, is surveillance, etc. Well, here we are waiting for the Home Secretary's report... I am convinced that this report will be fair, honest and will probably also show errors and negligence that have enabled such an incident to take place. Although I think each of us understands that there is no security system that would completely prevent such incidents from occurring, because it would simply have to be locked in the cages. We're waiting for this report. Surely this event also shows the great weakness of the penitentiary system. Besides, it's not just this case that shows up. We are lucky not to have a large number, but a large number of cases that people come out of prison, go out on leave and commit almost immediately subsequent crimes, aren't they? That should get us thinking, too. In my opinion, these matters, which I draw attention to, are much more important and are more important to draw lessons from this case than to focus on hate speech. 'Cause we're actually at a point like this today that we consider the main cause of this crime, this tragedy to be hate speech. I don't underestimate hate speech It's a terrible thing, it's a disgusting thing, just like stupid talk, like stupid talk. The speech of hatred is some emancipation of foolishness, some helplessness, frustration. And I don't underestimate that. There have been cases in history where the relationship between speech of hatred and event was much stronger in my opinion, even the murder of Fr. George Popieluszko. In some sense, it was prepared by the actual speech of hatred directed at this particular man. And here it is. I say this with all due respect to President Adamowicz and to the family I must admit that I do not see such a relationship directly. President Adamowicz was a full-blooded politician, subject to strong criticism, his actions were strongly criticized, and not only by law and justice. I don't want to develop this thread anymore. He was justly and unjustly criticized, just like all of us. We are subject to it, but the circumstances of this crime in my opinion show rather a very fragile link between the speech of hatred and the act of that unfortunate madman who did it. Of course, over the speech of hatred, especially that we should try to bring our public debate to a higher level... Here we should learn from it as much as possible, preferably everyone, by doing their conscience check, but let us not exaggerate, and especially let us not get carried away by a wave of emotion, that speech of hatred was the cause of this tragedy. These reasons I tried to describe coolly in those few words I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u75	Senator Probie has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would also like to share with you some reflections about today's sitting and this very sad period since the murder of the President. As for today's debate, I find that she is sad. Each of us, the senators, has a sensitivity, it's undoubtedly, but it's different sensitivity. I agree with most of my previous speakers, especially with Professor Bobka's statement, and I believe that these 2 versions of the draft resolution on substance are not particularly different. For fundamental reasons, I will tend to accept the version presented by my club. And now one reflection on this sad and terrible period since the murder of President Adamowicz. Well, I'm looking at it from a purely human point of view. Man goes to do good for others. The next day, he's gone. I watched in those media criticized by some of the events that followed in Gdansk, especially the transmission of funerals in Gdansk. There were a lot of elements in there that personally answered me very, well, somehow. I've noticed the honorary aide of the Navy. I think it's a big plus, because before that, there wasn't much room for our army to participate in the celebrations, e.g. Westerplatte. I have also watched the appearances of various people calling for peace and reconciliation. But I also noticed that it was not always in harmony with what they said that the body had spoken. I assume that here all of my previous speakers were consistent with what they were talking about today. But for one thing. And that's the main reason for my speech. I must respond, I must draw your attention. Well, this reflection was created in me, whether in Gdansk there are laws and good customs of the Republic of Poland, or the organizers of the funeral in Gdansk do not know what the precedency is, i.e. the established protocol order of priority or order. Even in the most remote of the city centre, they know what precedence is. Didn't they know? Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u77	You have a voice, Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I didn't want to speak at all today. But as I listen to these speeches, the wonderful speeches you are making here... You might feel that some of you are about to shed crocodile tears. This is a special hypocrisy. The matter could be dealt with in committee and today actually voted out, not moved to the plenary room. [[You could have.]] But I'll call it by name. You guys just want to keep it going and heat up the atmosphere here so... because there's media now and it's being broadcast. And you've been bringing it up all morning. Here's what I'm going to tell you: I feel very sorry for Mr. Adamowicz in human terms. And I will humbly say that in daily morning and evening prayer I remember Mr. Adamowicz as a man. Because he deserves respect. And I will say that yesterday I also celebrated a minute of silence with you, Mr. Adamowicz. Because that's what a human being deserves. I don't necessarily have to agree with what he did as a politician. But I find it extremely hypocritical... After all, not so long ago you judged Mr. Adamowicz, you could say, from honor and faith. After all, it was your party buddy you removed from the party. He applied for president's office against your will because you put another candidate on the stand. There are dozens of materials about how you felt about him. And today, a miracle has come true. You want to, you can say, make him a martyr and even glorify him. Why? Why do you want to do this? Because you want to use it politically. Because the election's coming up. I call it by name, that's the truth. I am very surprised that you are doing this because Poles remember. I just don't want to stay in these fumes of absurdity, participate in what you're doing. In a human way, pray for him and don't go back to it, don't get emotional. You're just talking about foaming, that's what you're doing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u79	Senator Zdrojewska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u80	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to say at the very beginning one important point. I would like to express my regret that Mr Piotr Adamowicz will not be here today, who expressed his willingness to come and thank him for this resolution today, but unfortunately he has been prevented from doing so. It's really not good that that happened. It is a pity that on such an occasion there will be no representative of the immediate family of President Adamowicz. [[The voice of the representative...]] Please? [[To take his voice.]] He wanted to thank you for the resolution. He just wanted to thank you for the resolution, but he was prevented. The second point I'd like to talk about. I would like to express my thanks to Senator Szymanski who isn't here today. I would like to express my respect, my great respect for his attitude at the funeral ceremony, for his participation in this ceremony, for showing up at the hospital. A great deal of respect for him. And the third point I want to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, I wrote this text before the funeral. I wrote this text after these commemorative celebrations that took place, actually spontaneously, when thousands, hundreds of thousands of people went out on the streets of Gdansk. I wrote a text that I would like to read right now. I posted it on Facebook. I bow low to Gdansk. It is with great admiration and emotion that I look at how the Gdansk people faced such a sudden and tragic death of their host, Paul Adamowicz. This applies to both city authorities holding farewell celebrations and residents who have become a great crowd for news of the death of their President. I admire the exemplary behaviour of the Vice President of the city, Aleksandra Dulkiewicz, and the spokeswoman Magdalena Skorupki-Kaczmarek, as well as the fact that the city has provided help to the shocked family of the assassin. I admire the dignified and fundamental statements of the Gdansk politicians whose city has such abundance. I'm looking at the united elites of this town. I am thrilled to discover Paweł Adamowicz, President of the friendly, empathetic, fighting and, most importantly, always with people. I bow to Gdansk and wish Poland to be like the city that President Adamowicz orphaned. And in conclusion, in the absence of Mr.Peter Adamowicz, I would like to express my sincere condolences and regrets to your wife, the President, to your daughters, to your brother and to your very old parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u81	Senator Shark has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! As usual, Professor Bobko, and then Professor Probier... I really wasn't gonna perform. Nevertheless, it is necessary to refer... I say this in the context of my previous statement. I think in November, during the hearing on the Ombudsman's report, Professor Bobko said that we should Do you remember? To respect the freedom we have. I then replied that we should not say this, because freedom has no adjectives, freedom is or is not. Then, for my misfortune, I quoted such words that Urban prepared us for the death of Fr. George Popieluszko. Remember? Unfortunately for me, that's what I said. It reminded me when President Adamowicz was killed that, unfortunately, sometimes words kill faster and go to those who then turn them into action. I'm afraid so. And today we can't forget that, Professor Bobko and Professor Probier, we can't say that it's not words that hate doesn't speak. 'Cause that's the hate speech that that prisoner was feeding on at the time... He's been there 5.5 years, he's only had two years to deal with... He didn't even have a radio for a long time. So what did he feed on? Then he had access to television. What did he feed on? He fed on evil hatred. The feeling of his injury, and what he heard afterwards, and what we had the opportunity to hear after the murder... Those weren't random words. We all know, as we sit here, that in order to commit such a crime, you have to have a really good hand. There's one doctor here, the other... they know it's not easy to operate without a knife like this. As far as the appeal is concerned, as far as Westerplatte is concerned, I thought we would not talk about it today, that we will talk about President Adamowicz, we will talk about his merits, which we all know here. Because the Senator's example of his attitude... We know, among others. that he was helping poor children, his family in Syria. But we didn't know many things. It wasn't until after he died that we found out about them. And today, gentlemen, you remind us that during the Westerplatte ceremony, there were words or other words. After all, we all know as well that President Adamowicz only meant that it was agreed with the Minister of National Defence that the whole Smolensk appeal would not be read. There's been a violation of the rule. I have to answer here. Therefore, he protested. And what did we hear in the answer? A love speech? Minister Błaszczak replied: do President Adamowicz and his officials have German passports? [[Yes, sir. That's right.]] Love speech? Ladies and gentlemen, bad words... I was here reminding, just then, in this speech, of the fact that Wałęsa is a bad word, that white roses are a crime to prosecute, that it was necessary to lead Mr. Frasyniuk handcuffed, with his hands behind his back... Nobody cuffed us in martial law. And that's what we should remember, because this crime can never happen again. It can't happen again. That's why I'm reminding you that... because today we should focus only on reminding a good man. After all, none of us have reached to the lives of other heroes of our resolutions, we have only talked about President Adamowicz in relation to his beautiful life story since 1988. Therefore, Mr. Marshall, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I'm really asking... We're gonna get together in the O.R., we're gonna be working on this project again. I ask that you really remember what happened yesterday, remembering Father Wiśniewski's statement and the words that fell during the funeral, spoken by Archbishop Głodzi, by Father Wiśniewski... Let us bow down one more time and really stand down, let us adopt this resolution in consensus. Don't let death divide us. You're very welcome. I remind you, the words about Fr. George has fallen before, they have prepared us... Please, appeal to yours, us to yours and you to yours... Let them no longer share us so strongly that... Today we have such an effect that we can't even lean on it and reconcile that the draft resolution, for which you also have no charges, no substantive or formal charges... What, that it was a good man? Is that a dangerous term or a bad phrase? Well, let's admit it. Therefore, once again, I ask you to start working on one joint resolution that we will adopt in consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u83	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry for your loss, compassion is important, but it is also important to protect yourself from such events in the future. I'm sure we can't protect ourselves from arguing about what the draft resolution is going to be like. We should not discuss this at all, especially when agreement on content has already taken place. But since this discussion has begun, I also have some reflections on this subject and conclusions on hate speech, consent... I remember the events that were happening to me myself. Do you remember such banners of the Lithuanian rascals, kneel down by the Polish master? What happened at Legion Stadium, gallows and stuff... and the question of how you reacted to it. I'm not gonna mention names here, although I could say, especially in the case of the actions I've taken, the behavior of the case... This is something that needs to be considered, especially since in our lives parliamentarians, Members and Senators, we are taking part in various kinds of events. You said on TV there was talk of mass events, that it wasn't a mass event... Well, when's the mass event? In stadiums, over 1,000 people, sports hall... These are mass events. You don't have these kind of meetings, like election meetings... But there are different kinds of gatherings. There are regular and spontaneous assemblies, and there are cyclical ones that we discussed a lot here in the Senate. There are these kinds of gatherings. And in the case of these ordinary gatherings, depending on whether we occupy the road lane or not, it is only a matter of time. And in the case of important, large events, mass, at least 30 days in advance, you need to get different kinds of arrangements. And for this type of convention there are shorter dates • 6 days or 2 days before the convention. And there's no one to protect us, none of us. So if this speech of hatred What's going on? It's not gonna be stopped, it's over there. No one can protect us. There's no way that's gonna happen. It would require special protection, and this kind of gathering is not possible. Each of us is at risk if we're increasing what's been happening recently. You also have to draw conclusions. That is why I am presenting this opinion and my reflections so as not to argue about a simple matter, about part of the draft resolution. After all, she is still, and so to take. There is nothing so problematic about this project that was proposed by us, and it had to be adopted. You didn't have to write a second draft resolution. And you couldn't discuss it today. And we wouldn't be talking here. But maybe this discussion we're having that we didn't want. He'll teach us something too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u85	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I thought this discussion was coming to an end. I don't want to prolong it, but I'd like to say very briefly that I'm sitting here listening... and, on the one hand, we're surprised that someone's sharing, so to speak, four words, and then he's doing something like this at the same time... Yes? I think my previous speaker also succumbed to this weakness. On the other hand, there are huge emotions connected with this case, which do not help. Emotions never help, and at the same time they cannot be separated from these matters. My signature is on Project 1079, which is why I felt obliged to speak briefly. First of all, I would like to thank many of my speakers. Too bad Senator Klich isn't here anymore. I agree with many of his thoughts. It's about those equally broken hearts, but it's also about these different sensibilities. Each of us has this different sensitivity, and as we sit in this House, we must recognise it, and in the most important matters we must scale the bar accordingly in order to find a common sensitivity level. We understand that this was the spirit of the most recent statements in which I am listening here. And Mr. Senator Napieralski, and Mr. Senator Bobko... I mean, there's a lot of right words in there. My questions, which I asked the Senator of the rapporteur, were intended to show that these differences between the two draft resolutions were not large. That's what Senator Bobko said. They're really not big. And you could see that the questioner didn't even know the text. That's clearly what happened. I showed it in my questions. But that's not what I'm saying right now, and maybe that's not what I'm saying. There is a margin of differences, and we can either leave this margin of differences as irrelevant, or raise it to the rank of unbelievable differences that divide us. And that's the point of the case. The fact that there are two projects, we treated as an expression of 2 sensitivity, of which Senator Klich spoke equally broken hearts and at the same time different sensitivities. Therefore, I ask the senators to consider the Law and Justice project as an extended hand, please respect our other sensitivity. We would like all senators to be able to raise their hands with a pure heart behind this resolution. That's how we dimensioned it, that sensitivity we put into this text. I'm asking you to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u87	Thank you, Senator. Now Senator Zientarski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that the agreed text was not prepared by an informal group, but by representative members, because it was the head of the PiS club and the representative of the applicants for this project, and from us two members and a representative of the applicants, to order the chairman of the Legislative Commission. It wasn't an informal situation, it was just an order to prepare for a committee meeting as much as possible... In fact, we were convinced that this was an agreed project because we thought it was such a delicate matter that we should combine. That's why, Senator... You've noticed there's no mention of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. In the projects there were, in the discussions, even in these amendments in the discussion, but we thought that such a formulation, calling this day the day on which good was shared, would not offend anyone. There were few suggestions to stress the President's attitude towards migrants. And for the record, we pulled out, we didn't type it in because we thought it would be controversial, at least for you. But we're talking about him, not the pattern for you, we're talking about this person, a big person. Ladies and gentlemen, today I had to speak as head of the local government committee, of course I am saying this in the context of this text. Well, both the wording of the self-government and the wording of the self-government is an outstanding self-government officer... All that's left is a self-government officer. That one's been deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, 500 presidents and mayors of the cities have arrived, including the president of my city, it is obvious, and they have said that this is a model for them. It doesn't have to be a model for you, but it's a model for self-government. And the fact that he wasn't common, he was outstanding, for one thing... Ladies and gentlemen, an ordinary, average, gray self-government officer doesn't seem to be hiding in the architect's basilica. That's where outstanding people are hiding. You say you want to get closer to sensitivity, and you cross out the word "excellent," because it hurts you. To me, it's a bit of a curiosity. And the last question, also very tragic, just now, Senator. Shark told me, she hasn't told you yet. It's in the context of a warning. - What's going on? It's not here either. It's already been mentioned. I won't say it again. A warning against further hatred. Ladies and gentlemen, today in our West Pomerania, in Szczecin, the police are searching the parliamentary offices, because the information has appeared, and I quote: Die pigs, today the headquarters of your lying party will blow up, burn with hellfire, the bomb of booze. This is an event from today. Ladies and gentlemen, this is tragic. It's just... Why can't we... It was mentioned here, Senator Marshal Borowski said it. Fortunately, we in this House do not use the invective to each other, we respect each other. Let us be this model and show unity, because in this respect we are really, so to speak, sensitive together, as Senator Wind has said. Let's try to get serious about this... Once again, I say that we have eliminated these controversial issues so as not to impose on us, despite the fact that we first reported the project that we are closer, that is, we have some moral priority, above all, Mr. Senator Rybicki, a friend... or Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... But we thought: well, let the content be common. We're asking you to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u89	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of the senator. Terminian. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Tough lyrics...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I may not be very good at speeches that don't concern the merits of cases, but I have decided to say a few sentences. This debate is not a debate about who killed Mr Adamowicz, it is not even a debate about why he was killed. Why he was killed, explain the proper services, and who killed him, we all saw him on TV. It's not like it's a big secret. This debate is a debate about what was the surroundings, what was the atmosphere around this event, around President Adamowicz himself, and around the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. Senator Florek has said a few sentences about safety. Yes, if there is still a debate today, if we continue as politicians "I think that more media than politicians "to rock this boat to the right and to the left, in a moment we will all walk with personal protection and in the budget of the state the personal protection of politicians, self-governments will be a large piece of cake. Is that what we want? That should be considered. Ladies and gentlemen, hate speech isn't just a simple hat. It's also a contradiction and a half-truth. And here, Senator Probie, to your attention. Let me remind you of the events on Hel. And that's an example of half-truth... [[Westerplatte.]] Westerplatte, I'm sorry. This is an example of half-truth. We know how it was, we know that it wasn't about the presence of the Polish army during the anniversary, it was about the Smolensk appeal, about forcing everyone to believe that there was a Smolensk bombing. And that was the subject of a dispute, not whether the army could participate in the celebrations or not. [[That's right, exactly.]] That's an example of breaking and half-truths. I'm getting it. Well, I'm surprised. You couldn't resist that remark, could you? Well, she doesn't bring anything to this discussion. Another point concerns precedence. Ladies and gentlemen, this funeral is a very personal, very intimate and very family celebration. After what the right-wing media did to President Adamowicz, I am surprised that someone even let you and the President in. I'm really surprised about that. [[Voice from the hall: This is the church.]] [[Voice from the room: What is he talking about?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It was a private funeral. And it was a gesture from the family. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And this is the speech of love.]] That's my opinion on this case, and you can't convince me... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...you won't convince me after what happened... [[Voice from the room: It's clear.]] And all these movements that are made, these are sham movements, these are movements under the public, this is an attempt to save for all the strength of the face. [[Voice from the room: False...]] [[Voice from the room: It's already started.]] Like for example. a declaration that you will not issue a candidate for President of Gdansk. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare to you here today, I declare to you: I will not run for head of the PiS. You know why? Because I have the same chances as your candidate for President of Gdansk. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm not taking off. I'm gonna give it back. Thank you. I'm quitting. [[Voice from the hall: There is no love.]] [[You're compromising...]] It's not a matter of love. It's a matter of telling yourself the truth, telling yourself what it's like. If there are articles of pretensions to widows, emphasize: to widows The fact that Mr. President was sitting two chairs further than he thinks he should be sitting... [[Five.]] Good. Let's say he sat five chairs away. I'm not gonna decide how much closer to sitting. [[You insult the majesty of the Republic of Poland.]] [[In the front row of the family...]] Thank you. It's Mr. Probier and Mr. Bonkowski who are different. Gentlemen, that's not where I'm going with this. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me. Calm down, please.]] I would refer in a few sentences to the words of the Member State Senator, who accused politicians of the Civic Platform that they had not previously supported Mr Adamowicz as a presidential candidate and now glorify him. I will answer this way: there are different trends in the opposition. Just because we didn't support President Adamowicz as a presidential candidate doesn't mean we didn't value him or respect him. And that is how our approach to the world differs from our approach, let's call it, right-wing organisations, media, Members and politicians. That's what we're different about. We can respect our opponent. We're not gonna run after him with a microphone, shove him in his stomach and ask him, "Have you stopped stealing?" And that's what the right hand does today. If it's about the public movement, then... Thank you. Some of the politicians in PiS behaved really well. I like the fact that today a debate has been held on how to limit people who are aggressive or mentally disabled to freedom in such a situation. I like the fact that such a debate has been held, and I hope that it will be conducted successfully. I like the behavior of the services that suddenly started chasing haters, although I have some doubts about why only those haters who are not prominent politicians of Law and Justice are being raced. Because no one is after Mrs Pavłowicz. Journalists from public television aren't chasing either, and, let's face it, they could hit their chests and at some point they could shut up. They didn't shut up. Everyone saw what happened. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation with the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, and the death of President Adamowicz, begins to remind me of situations that I only knew from childhood. The more the PZPR fought someone, the more the people loved them. The collection of President Adamowicz's last can shows clearly what the nation thinks of your actions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u91	Thank you, Senator. [[Voice from the hall: There is no love.]] I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I think we all know a song whose words sound like this: we all agree, and it's still going to be the way it is. There were two draft resolutions aimed at honoring Paweł Adamowicz and telling Poles how shocked the senators are about this act of beastly murder. And what are we arguing about right now? That there should not be a resolution too many warm words under Paul Adamowicz, whom we want to honor. Is that worthy? Aren't we embarrassing ourselves by debating a few words for the past two hours? Shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. I'll ask Marshal Sewerinski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This great and dramatic event, which has shocked our country, could not have been noticed, also in the Senate. This long - standing exchange of views and opinions in this matter shows that this has also shaken us all. The Senate takes a stand on this dramatic issue, which Poland has been living recently, because such a position is expected. I am not surprised that we differ in the way we experience this great drama. This is a drama not only of this grieving family, but also of our entire homeland. We express our feelings in this matter through the prism of our own perception of this criminal act, through the prism of our own language, our own sensitivity, our own feelings of what is right at a given moment, what should be said, more or less sharpened. We'll never agree on this. We will only agree on a certain minimum of the words and assessments that are included here. And we have to accept that we can't afford any more. But I'd like to say it has value. We've expressed at least what we should. We've named this act we're talking about as a crime. That's what you gotta call it. We condemned this crime, expressed our sympathy for our loved ones and called for respect for democracy, respect for each other in public life. This is a certain minimum that the Senate should express in the face of this great, dramatic event. And we did it. I think that if today a committee gathers, which may make any further adjustments in one way or another, then after leaving this room, we may not all be satisfied with this text, in which there are no certain statements that one of us might have added, but we will have the right to say that the Senate stands at the level of the task, in general taking such a resolution, especially if these three elements are condemned for crime, expressing compassion towards our loved ones and calling for mutual respect in public life and to respect the principles of democracy. Finally, after the terrible consequences of the Smolensk disaster, the Senate did not take any position. [[And the P.O. has put a candidate on the stand for president.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Bonkowski. Please. This is the second speech, Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u96	Yes. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like to say a few more words. Senator Terminski, there was no calculation in the fact that the President announced that we would not present the candidate. This is a fresh case. Recently there were elections to local government, and Mrs Dulkiewicz was a close associate of the President. The Gdansk people have chosen Mr. Adamowicz, not a candidate for the Civic Platform, which the Platform cannot accept until today. So how would she put up her candidate now, like Mr. Wałęsa? You're in a difficult situation, because you're not... You should do the same to honor the sleep. President Adamowicz, because now it's just a burning speech you're making. Well, that's the way it's supposed to be. I'd still be here... Oh, I don't always agree with Marshal Borowski, but this time I have to give him some credit. A man must be respected in life, and Mr. Adamowicz has not had such respect in recent years with you. And I'd also like to say... Yeah, I'm kind of missing it now. I'd like to address Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, why do you say you're convinced it was a political murder? It wasn't a political murder. I condemn it, but it was a man who was mentally ill, corrupted, and that's all. But you're gonna tell me that you believe it was a political murder. What's that supposed to do? Do I say hate? And you keep saying, "Hate speech." I will tell you: you have transferred this speech of hatred to a higher stage. She's no longer called you... you can't say it's a hate speech. This is a hateful speech of love, yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u97	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Rybicki, Senator Borowski and Senator Martynowski. [[Voice from the room: Protocol?]] For protocol. The discussion is closed. I would like to remind you that the second reading concludes by referring the draft to the committee in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. I therefore conclude that the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I am making a formal request that, in the light of the amendments tabled... I am applying for a deadline for the Legislative Commission to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Aleksander Szwed has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear a voice of objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. There's no vote of objection. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to announce a half-hour break, but before that, I'd like to make a announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u100	Today, 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176, a meeting of the Legislative Commission will be held on the examination of the applications submitted at the 70th Senate meeting during the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk, the city of freedom and solidarity. Senatski print no 1078; and draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk, Senatski print no 1079. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u101	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess... [[Voice from the room: But there's still...]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u102	I would like to ask on behalf of our club to extend this recess for the next half hour to be held by the Civic Platform Club. [[So it's basically an hour's break, right?]] Yes, sir. At the end of the committee meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u103	Good. That's half an hour to the committee meeting and half an hour to the club meeting. [[Yes.]] We're adjourned until 4:08 p.m. Thank you very much. There'll be a vote after the break. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 08 to 16 minutes 08]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u104	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk, the city of freedom and solidarity; the draft resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdańsk. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 1078/1079 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission supported the proposal set out in point 2 of the table of proposals and asks for its adoption by the Senate together with a single draft resolution in print No 1078/1079 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, the legislative proposals were tabled by Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Marek Martynowski. Please, Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! From this point of view, I would like to call once again on the High House to adopt the amendment that I tabled during my second reading. Let me remind you that this is a comprehensive amendment, which is a proposal for a new, according to our club a better version of the resolution commemorating the dead. President of Gdansk Paweł Adamowicz. I appeal for this in the name of a good memory of a good man and a good president and in the name of this extraordinary community that we have seen on the streets of Polish cities. But even if it were to happen that you would vote differently... Just like we talked about today. Why shouldn't we consider the truth? Just because we have different ideas? If we do not take this truth into account, she will still remain the cruel murder that took the life of President Gdansk on such a special day that the Poles shared the good we talked about here will remain a fact. The fact remains that Paweł Adamowicz, which is not mentioned in the project that we are about to vote on, was a person who saw history as a relay of generations and in this relay of generations will take a prominent place, will take a place in the pantheon of outstanding Polish self-governments and politicians. And it will also leave a model of a prominent self-governmentman and a politician who in his life has proved that politics can truly be a prudent service to the common good, and a politician can be a upright, good, open, tolerant, selfless, and a man of true public service. And even if you do not want to directly condemn this murderous assassination in the text of the resolution, but merely respect its activities and invoke the fact of outrage to public opinion with this terrible event, we, at least this part of the room and, I think, millions of Poles, seeing this cruel crime, want everyone to know that we condemn this act of terror and hatred, regardless of who is behind it, that there is no consent, at least our and consent of millions of Poles, to the symptoms of aggression in public life and that we oppose hate speech and violence in any form, regardless of motivation. Paweł Adamowicz loved Gdansk and Poland and I am convinced that many people, many future self-governments will be equal to this pattern, and then his death will not be in vain. Finally, we pay tribute to President Paul Adamowicz and we would like to say, even if it is not in the text: Hi to his memory! Thank you very much. [[Senators of the Civic Platform Club rise, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u108	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to raise such a question? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text, in print No 1078/1079 X, and then in the adoption of the draft No 1078/1079 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 will rule out the vote on Amendments 2 and 4, i.e. Amendments 2, 3 and 4. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1, Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 27 votes against, 59 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 2, Senator Mark Pęk and Senator Martynowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] We are now voting on Amendment 3, tabled by Senator Marek Borowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 59 against. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 4, also tabled by Senator Marek Borowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 60 against. [[Voting No 8]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We took one, didn't we? [[Yes.]] Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 85 were in favour, 1 was against the senator. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, President of Gdansk (1965-2019). Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on criminal proceedings. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The draft is included in print No 988, and the committee's report In print No 988 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you have already mentioned, the case concerns the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which referred to the fact that the decision of the court to reduce the number of defendants for assistance or to refuse to participate because the application for this role had been lodged too late or that it was inadmissible, according to the current legal situation, there is no complaint. The Constitutional Tribunal considered that in the light of the Article. 78 of the Constitution, which provides that decisions given at first instance are subject to appeal, is contrary to the Constitution. At the committee's meeting, we unanimously took the right decision to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court and to ensure better respect for the rights of persons who are victimized and who can actually act in this role regardless of the prosecution's activities, which, as we know, is not always willing to file indictments despite the relevant proposals that affect it. As a remedy for this phenomenon, there is the institution of the supplicator. Well, there is another form of substitute prosecutor as regards this refusal to initiate proceedings by the prosecution, which is intended to ensure that those who consider themselves to be victims, participate in proceedings and allow the prosecution of perpetrators of crime to be prosecuted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. That's it, right? [[Everything, yes.]] I thank the senator very much for his brief presentation of the report. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. I would remind you that the Legislative Committee has authorized her to represent Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I understand Senator Jackowski has a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. When is this judgment of the Constitutional Court? Does he refer to any particular situation? If the senator has that knowledge... Relatively, has this element been analyzed in the course of committee work? Finally, will this solution improve the situation of the parties in court proceedings or not? Thank you very much. That's three short questions. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u112	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u113	Mr. Senator, the judgment is relatively fresh or young, as anyone would like to define it, because it comes from 16 May 2018, and has come to the background of such a situation that a person who considers himself to be injured has not been allowed to act in this capacity, because, as I say, in the judgment of the court, such a person may be considered to be unlawful, i.e. an injured person within the meaning of Article. 49 c.p.k., or the court may conclude that it was too late to report for this role. By the way, since... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet!]] By the way, speaking of art. 49, i.e. the victim, the definition is that the victim is a person who is affected by the effects of acts or criminal omissions directly. There's a direct phrase there. We know that in practice In fact, the demands have already been made before the prosecution very often and the courts use this wording directly in such a way that they prevent those who feel hurt from actually prosecuting the perpetrators of the crime. I can give an example of my practice when a bank that issued a false statement of account status was not held liable. It's the bank's employee, that's exactly what I'm saying. Because of the fact that the person who applied for the prosecution and this certificate was needed in the case for the distribution of the property after the divorce was recognised and by the prosecutor's office and by the court as a person who was not directly wronged by this false certificate. But it is known that it was wronged because the state of the estate to be divided was accepted by the court on the basis of this false certificate. So that such joyful work, whether it be the prosecution's office or the courts, actually occurs. That is why I once insisted that the wording that there should be a direct effect on such a person should be replaced by the wording that there was an effect, i.e. it does not necessarily have to be direct. Then it would close the showdown in giving outrageous judgments, as described by me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u114	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because in such a noise it is impossible to conduct proceedings. Quiet, please! If anyone has to have a conversation, you're welcome to leave the courtroom. Would any of you like to ask the Senator of the rapporteur a question? [[No.]] Thank you. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft law at issue? Minister Marcin Warchoł of the Ministry of Justice is with us. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. I also inform you that Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I'm informing you that... [[Voice from the hall:...now the Senate could...]] ...now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Construction Law. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and that it is contained in print No. 1060 and the report of the committee In print No 1060 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Infrastructure Committee, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Senator, your vote is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Legislative Commission and the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Construction Law. The aim of the project is to raise to the rank of a law restricting building rights by transferring the provisions of Chapter IV of the Regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure and Development of 11 September 2014 on independent technical functions in construction governing the scope of building rights, namely §10 and 15, to the Act of 7 July 1994 The draft adapts the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 February 2018. Its full content and justification has been announced... The joint meeting of the Commissions on 23 January 2019 examined the draft law. 4 amendments were proposed, amendments were accepted. The committees request the adoption of the attached bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u116	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Who would like to ask such a question? [[Voices from the room: No...]] Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u117	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a specific question. I understand that at the moment it will be possible to appeal if someone does not gain building rights, because the rules are being transferred from the regulation to the bill. Yes? It is about broadcasting within a certain or full range of building rights, as I understand it, to managers or others in such positions. Is that a yes or a no? In that case, will it be possible to apply the appeal procedure and what it will look like if someone does not have the authority and considers that he is being wronged by it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u118	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u119	This appeal procedure certainly already exists now. I think the Ministry confirms it. Yes or no? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Yes.]] [[Of course.]] Yes. That's it. It was only here that these provisions were transferred from the regulation to the law. [[Rank of regulations...]] Yeah, the rule of law has been raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u120	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? Thank you, Senator. Now, ladies and gentlemen... Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: No.]] Minister Artur Soboń from the Ministry of Investment and Development is with us. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, no...]] [[Jasiek...]] [[But I have questions for the minister.]] [[But the discussion has already been opened.]] Good. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. I'm asking if anyone has a question like that. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium because there are questions for you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And silence in the courtroom, please. [[I hope that's an intelligent question.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u121	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the scale of the problem, which is about how much of this kind of powers are issued annually. It's also about issues like this, the appeal procedure I asked Senator Piecha about. I know that he was also in the previous regulations... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But please be quiet, gentlemen.]] Is your department monitoring these cases, and in this respect is there any statistics that would point to this issue? I'm asking unreasonably. These provisions are very clear and define the criteria to be met in order to obtain the relevant powers. These are practices, a specific period of different functions in the construction sector, etc. But I do know that various appeals go through... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u122	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I just want to clarify the essentials. What are we coming with today? We come with the absence of any comments from the government on the Senate initiative aimed at executing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which would mean, in short, moving the content of the regulation to the law. And that's all we're talking about here today. As for the powers, the way they function today and how they will function after this change enters into force, after the execution of the judgment, nothing will change. There's no effect here, no mode in which you would have to reclaim or appeal. There are no events that concern these people. I don't know if I have statistics here. I would give you in writing the statistics, which is here, from the Polish Chamber of Construction Engineers. Mr. Senator will have precise data on all specialties.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u124	Would you like that in writing, Senator? [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal, in writing, please. Thank you.]] Good. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[He's already said...]] [[He's done the job. That's right.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the Act on payments under the direct support scheme and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 1074, and the report of the Commission In print No 1074 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the law amending the Act amending the Act on payments under the direct support scheme and certain other laws which the Sejm adopted on 17 January. It was the Ministry's request to adopt this law as soon as possible because farmers want to launch payment applications. What is very important here is the date of entry into force, which is February 15. It is therefore a request to adopt a law without amendments as soon as possible. She will introduce the possibility of sending applications to farmers. Farmers will not be able to send them until they have been examined. The new proposal... the statements will be submitted from February 15th to March 14th. I ask the High House to support the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u126	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone have that question and want to ask it? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u127	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, now would be the time for questions to be asked by a government representative, but a government representative has not yet arrived. I'd just like to ask if there are any such questions. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] There isn't. Let's get to the discussion. No one signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Industrial Property Law. The text of the Act is contained in print 1073, and the report of the Commission In print No 1073 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Law amending the Law is to implement into the Polish legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 to approximate the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks. The European Union trade mark Directive and Regulation are intended to establish a lasting, complementary and coherent coexistence between the Community trade mark and national trade mark protection systems. Such co-existence of systems enables entrepreneurs to function effectively and efficiently in current economic realities and within the common customs territory of the European Union. The regulation on the simplification and accessibility of the trade mark protection system is intended to cover around 2 million active entrepreneurs and around 180 000 eligible trademarks. Furthermore, it is expected that the simplification of the way the protection is extended to trademarks will lead to a reduction in the number of expirys of exclusive rights under the Trademark Act as a result of the failure to pay a fee for the next protection period. Three groups of issues are among the most important matters governed by the Act. One: the issue of obtaining and obtaining protection rights for a trade mark, including in particular the modification of the definition of a trade mark, the regulation concerning common trade marks and warranty trade marks, as well as the modification of the procedure for extending protection rights to trade marks. Second: shaping international trade mark proceedings in accordance with the provisions of the Madrid Agreement concerning the international registration of marks. Third: civil and legal claims of the holder in the event of a breach of a trade mark protection right. The bill will enter into force 14 days after its announcement. I ask the High House to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u129	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The Minister is with us... [[Voice from the room: He's on his way, he's not here yet.]] There isn't. He's on his way. Are there any questions for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] No questions. Thank you very much. Then I'll open the discussion. Nobody came forward for discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a 10-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 38 to 16 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u130	High Izbo! Vote at 4:55 p.m. Excuse me, but we still have to... [[You mean 10 more minutes?]] Yes. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 45 to 16 minutes 55]] I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, please take your seats and keep your conversations quiet because I have very important information to repeat. I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 1 February 2019. The agenda for this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. [[About an hour...]] [[Nine o'clock.]] Yeah, nine o'clock. And the other day... [[Voice from the room: Better...]] The day before that, there will be committee meetings, and at 9:00 the next day, on February 1, we will meet. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin to consider item 9 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 1077. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u131	High Senate! Mr. Marshal's hands have been affected by the requests of the senators concerned who would like to change their membership of the Senate's permanent committees. The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee at its meeting on 21 January considered a letter addressed to the committee by your marshal and on the basis of an article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The committee shall submit the following draft resolution to the High Senate under the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of... on changes in the formations of Senate committees §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, revokes: 1) Senator Wiesław Kilian of the National Defence Committee, 2) Senator Przemysław Terminski of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, 3) Senator Jerzy Wczyła from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, chooses: 1) Senator Wiesław Kilian to the Committee on Infrastructure, 2) Senator Przemysław Terminski to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, 3) Senator Jerzy Więła to the Committee on National Defence. §3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u132	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any volunteers, I don't hear any calls. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 43 were in favour, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] I kindly inform you that the High House has not decided to adopt a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There must have been a reason for that, ladies and gentlemen. We would like to return to the discussion of the first item on the agenda: the 2019 Budget Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[No, now we have to make a list of those who voted against...]] ...and prepared a report on it. It is in print No 1068 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Yesterday, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance examined the proposals submitted at its meeting in the course of the debate on the Budget Law and presented to the High Senate a proposal for adoption of the proposal set out in point I, i.e. for the adoption of the Budget Law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u134	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions during the discussion were presented by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Ryszard Bonisławski, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Marian Poślednik, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicki, Senator Jan Rulewski, Mr Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Piotr Zientarski. I don't see or hear any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 61 for, 26 against. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the budget law for 2019. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on criminal proceedings. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No. 988 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law tabled by the committee on the amendment of the law of. Code of Criminal Procedure and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Construction Law. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print no. 1060 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Wojciech Piecha to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law on the amendment of the Construction Law and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm presented by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Construction Law and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Wojciech Piecha to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: a law amending the Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 1074 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Industrial Property Law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No. 1073 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 indicates precisely what legal regimes are referred to in the legislation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 2 seeks to apply correctly in the provision of terminology. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 3 seeks to clearly indicate the purpose of amending the rules of procedure for the use of a trade mark in order to eliminate the obstacle to the granting of protection rights. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 4 complements the reference, taking into account the addition of new provisions which specify additional obstacles to the registration of a trade mark with regard to the common trade mark and the guarantee trade mark. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 5 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] The fifth was? [[Voice from the room: Yes, now six.]] Six o'clock, of course. Amendment 6 eliminates the error of refusing to recognise the protection of an international trade mark would not be served to the holder. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome to apply... Not yet, right? Wait a minute. I'm gonna need the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 7 correctly defines the relationship between the rules on the recognition of international trade mark protection. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 8 eliminates interpretation doubts, considering that the concept of "defining" falls within the scope of "defining." Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 9 corrects misconceptions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 10 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 11 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 12 takes into account that the provision should relate only to a decision declaring the protection right to lapse and not to such a decision and a decision refusing to terminate the protection right. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 13 modifies the scope of the reference to the law on combating unfair competition, referring only to comparative advertising rules, thus ensuring the correct implementation of the EU Directive. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 14 correctly sets out the relationship between the amended Act and the Act on the provision of services by electronic means. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 15 adds the missing transitional provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 16 deletes the words which allowed for the application of the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 17 seeks to ensure that the law enters into force 14 days after the date of publication and not the day following the date of publication. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Industrial Property Law. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 70th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The subject of the statement may be cases... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[I can't hear the marshal.]] Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Senator Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My senator statement will be very brief today. I direct them to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Elizabeth Rafalska. Well, I was approached by a lady with the following question. Let me read this question in its entirety. Good morning. I would like to know if you can replace a special allowance with a care allowance. This lady has such a question, and I would ask the Minister cordially to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u136	Thank you very much, senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska. Dear Minister, I address your concern about media information about the situation in education for Ukrainians and Ukrainians offered in the Republic of Poland. Specifically, it is about initiatives concerning the launch of education in the Ukrainian language in Poland, i.e. with the Ukrainian language of teaching for the children of the Ukrainians who came to our country in search of work. An example is the Ukrainian primary school, a new school in Legnica. I stress that this is about teaching the Ukrainian language and the Ukrainian language for children and young people of the last Ukrainian immigration, not for members of the Ukrainian national minority. As far as the latter are concerned, the Polish State has committed itself both in internal law and through international agreements to respect the rights of national and ethnic minorities, including the Ukrainian minority. Thus, learning in Ukrainian and Ukrainian for members of the Ukrainian minority in Poland is understandable, although it should be expected that full symmetry in this respect, i.e. the same rights for Poles residing in the territory of the current Ukraine. In my opinion, however, it is unacceptable to start the process of granting the privileges of Ukrainian minority due in Poland to all Ukrainians residing in our country. We should not extend the rights granted to members of the national minority in general to Ukrainian citizens living in Poland for 2 reasons. Firstly, Ukrainians who are currently economic migrants came to Poland and are staying on Polish territory voluntarily, without coercion. So they voluntarily isolate themselves and their families in Poland from the Ukrainian language, from its teaching and public use. Learn Ukrainian to Ukrainian workers and their families in Poland simply does not belong. No international obligations, two- and multilateral agreements or Polish internal law require the Polish State to organise the teaching of their native language even when they intend to settle in Poland permanently, let alone when it is a temporary, profitable stay. Unless we want and strive to artificially increase the number of members of the Ukrainian minority in Poland, among others. in order to strengthen her confidence in the escalation of demands addressed to Poland. And as the media informs, already now, few so far, the environment of the actual Ukrainian minority is taking action in conflict with the Polish majority. That's for example. scandal associated with the presence of pro-bander books by Wołodymyr Wiatrowych in the School Complex with the Ukrainian Language of Teaching in Bartoszyce in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Should Ukrainian children living in Poland be raised in the spirit of neobanderism, the genocide of Ukrainian nationalism, and this is for the money of the Polish taxpayer? Dear Minister, the second reason is clear to me: the Polish state should strive to assimilate foreigners on its territory. This also applies to Ukrainian economic immigrants. Poland, instead of teaching Ukrainians Ukrainian, should rather teach them, and their children also, Polish language. This would help them to find and maintain better jobs in Poland, to identify them more with the Polish environment and to stay in our country. It would also prevent the creation of Ukrainian ghettos in Poland, and these, as we see in the case of immigrants of other nations in Western European countries, are the reason behind crime and violence. And Polish-Ukrainian conflicts of national origin due to historical pasts should be avoided in Poland as fire. Dear Minister, please check the data and send in response information on how many children and young people have learned Ukrainian as their mother tongue or have studied Ukrainian in schools located in Poland in the last 5 years. Is this number an increasing number, and is this growth rapid? If so, this means that the process described by me is real. I would also ask you to answer the question of whether you see the Minister of Danger described by me and what your attitude towards them is, in particular, whether you have taken steps to correct their negative effects and what these actions were. I'd like to express my respects. Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sending a statement to the Minister of Energy on the adaptation of the Lower Odra plant to the BAT conclusions. Since 17 August 2017, new, more restrictive industrial emission standards have been in force in Poland, as have the European Union as a whole. The provisions are covered by the so-called "laws'. combustion plants with a capacity of at least 50 MW, including Heaters, power plants, waste incineration plants. From that date, the said institutions must fully adapt their installations to the new requirements resulting from the BAT conclusions. All published standards will have to be met from the beginning by the installations being built and the heat and incineration plants must be adapted to them. The deadline for adaptation shall be 4 years and shall end on 17 August 2021. As the then Deputy Minister of the Environment, representative of the government for climate policy, Paweł Salałek, estimated in 2017, compliance with the new emission regulations could cost Polish companies about PLN 10 billion. One such plant is the Lower Odra Power Plant in Nowy Czarnow near Gryfina, which belongs to the PGE group. It currently has 6 active blocks for coal and industrially co-incinerated biomass. This power plant is the primary source of energy not only for the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. Therefore, please answer the following questions. At what stage are the modernization works of the Lower Odra Power Plant no. 5re, in particular the flue gas desulfurization and denitrification installations, aimed at adapting to the standards resulting from the BAT conclusions? Please submit a detailed schedule. What are the costs and are the funds secured for this purpose? Question two. Is there a risk that certain power plant blocks will be switched off on 17 August 2021? Third. Is the security of electricity supply for the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship ensured after this date? And four. Is there a contingency plan in the event of permanent shut-off of Blocks 5 and 8 above. A power plant? Sincerely, Thomas Grodzki, Senator of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alexander Swed, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u141	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I would like to ask you about the programs that our government, the Government of Law and Justice is implementing. I'd like to make two statements. The first statement is to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elizabeth Rafalska. I would like to ask for information on the implementation of the 500+ programme in 2017 and 2018, that is to say how many families have been provided, how many children have been provided. To what extent was the funds allocated to its implementation? I would also like to ask you about the implementation of the "Senior+" and "ASOS" programmes in 2017 and 2018. I would ask you to indicate the number of beneficiaries and the amount of appropriations allocated. I would especially ask to take into account data concerning municipalities from the former Wałbrzych voivodship, i.e. the powiats of Kłodzki, Leczoniowski, Ząbkowicki, Świdnicki, Wałbrzych and the city on the rights of the county of Wałbrzych. I would like to address my second statement to the Minister of Health, Minister Łukasz Szumowski. Please provide information on the implementation of the "Leks 75+" programme, i.e. to indicate how the programme was implemented. I am referring, in particular, to the number of beneficiaries, to the medicines to be refunded in 2017 and 2018 and to the submission of the forecast for the current year. I would ask to take into account data concerning municipalities from the former Wałbrzych voivodship, i.e. the powiats of Kłodzki, Leczoniowski, Ząbkowicki, Świdnicki, Wałbrzych and the city on the rights of the county of Wałbrzych. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-24-senat-71-2.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand that the list of people who wish to speak has been exhausted. We don't have any messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first 70th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first 70th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 23]]
