ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u1	I open the 80th third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła as the secretaries of the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. I ask the senators to take their seats. I would like to inform that the Sejm, at its eighty-fourth meeting on 19 July 2019, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Road and Rail Freight Monitoring and some other laws, to the Act on Investments in the Construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, to the Department of the World War II Museum in Gdansk, to the Act amending certain laws in order to limit payment congestion, to the Act amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities and to certain other laws, to the Act on the Regulation of Certain Matters in connection with the occurrence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community under the Agreement. In addition, at the same meeting, the Sejm adopted part of the amendments to the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code and some other laws, the Act amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 70th and 80th meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 80th Senate's first sitting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to make available to the senators. High Senate! I would like to inform you that on 6 June 2019 the Attorney General provided the Senate with a clear annual information on the total number of persons subject to a request for control and retention of interviews or an application for an operational control order. This document is contained in print No 1209. On 3 July 2019 I sent the information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the document and informed me of it. High Senate! I would like to inform you that on 4 June 2019 the Minister of Justice informed the Senate about the processing of telecommunications, postal and internet data and the results of the audits carried out in 2018. This document is contained in print No 1193. On 14 June 2019 I sent the information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of this document and informed me of it. High Senate, I inform you that on 2 July 2019 the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration sent information to the Senate for 2018 on the activities of the Police, the Office of Internal Surveillance and the State Security Service. This document is contained in print No 1217. On 9 July 2019 I sent the information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. This committee took note of the document and informed me of it. I would also like to inform you that on 28 June 2019 the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded to the Senate a document on road safety and the activities carried out in this regard in 2018. This document is contained in print No 1215. On 9 July 2019 I sent this information to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. The committees took note of the document and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The draft agenda that was sent to you included a point: agreeing to the appointment of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In view of the absence of President NIK by the Sejm, this item was not included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. Senators, I propose that the second to seventh, tenth, eleventh, thirteenth to thirty-sixth and 40th draft agenda be considered, even though the printed matter has been delivered at a later date than that referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the points: the twenty-nineth, concerning the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection and consider this point as point four; the second thirty-second, concerning the Law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of eHealth arrangements and considering this point as point thirty-first; the fourth, concerning the prevention of food waste and consider this point as the sixth point after the veteran point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I inform you that Senator Grzegorz Napieralski on 16 July 2019 in accordance with Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, requested the following item to be added to the agenda: information from the Minister of National Education on the situation in the recruitment of pupils to secondary and upper secondary schools in 2019. I did not take into account the proposal submitted because I believe that this is the matter that should be considered by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. Despite my decision not to include this point, does the applicant maintain its request? Yes. May I speak? You may speak, senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm maintaining this motion. I believe your Marshal's decision is... I don't mean to say it's bad, but it doesn't correspond to the weight of the problem. What happened this year, what happened to our kids... And I remind you that actually education or what happens in the educational process of our children will have consequences for our country, for our homeland. What happened in the education system this year... I am not only talking about strikes, but above all about recruitment, about a reform that was so badly prepared that it did not predict as a result of what happened during recruitment to secondary and upper secondary schools. I think we lost our yearbook. Today, especially in big cities, but not only in big cities And it's not the local authorities' fault, and I want to point out right now that it's not the local authorities' fault. The scenes are really very drastic, and there is very much injustice. Children who had six on their certificates and fives alone did not get into selected schools, although a year earlier, two years earlier in the same recruitment free to those schools that they had dreamed up, they could get in. What we could read in the newspapers, we could hear on the radio or on the television, as if it were more, as if it had shown us the scale of the problem: children's queues in front of schools, lists of rejected students, schoolgirls who did not get into the school they had dreamed of for years. In my opinion, the committee is too narrow a body of people in which such a debate should take place. Plus, there's our room, the upper room, the Senate room. And I support, Mr. Marshal, this motion... I see. Good. I'm almost done. There you go. There's three minutes for a brief motion. Sustained, Mr. Marshal, this motion. I think... It's running out of time. I believe that the issue of our children and the future of our country is most important and it must not be brought to committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, because you say... I happen to have a newspaper, so I'll show it to you. In this newspaper actually is the title of the school apocalypse. Did you read the paper? I guess. I'm sure. But you had to read another number of the same newspaper, the Gazeta Wyborcza and... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But what, you're reading the Vocal Gazeta? Do you have a newspaper like this? But, Senator, Mr. Marshal, don't interrupt. Yeah, I got it by accident. I'm reading the Vocal Gazeta. You don't read our papers. We read yours. It says here: free seats are power. Mr. Senator, a little patience. The reform was perfectly prepared, fantastic. More free seats in schools... [[Applause]] There's more free seats in schools than ever. I, Mr. Senator... The Lord has abused my patience by saying that the entire yearbook of children is lost. You've gone too far in your speech. And I'm returning it to you. How was the yearbook executed? The whole year, sir, he's gonna be studying. I wish this yearbook the best. The kids are learning. It's never been like this, Mr. Senator, that the children were getting into selected schools. It's never been like this. In my high school, a great high school didn't get a lot of aspiring people there. So that it never happened. We proceed with the vote on the motion... I'm still... But in what form? Corrections. There's no correction. There isn't. Mr. Senator, well, we're not having a discussion right now. We don't have time, Senator, for discussion, debate. If the senator wants to take serious care of education, seriously... Seriously. ...seriously, not propagandaly, electorally, do it on the committee. The Commission is open and I guarantee you that the Minister will come to the meeting and explain everything to you. But can I correct it, Mr. Marshal? Straighten it up? Please, you may, briefly, because I want to join... Out of place, Mr. Senator. But the microphone doesn't work there. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'll be right there, sir, and you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm patient, Senator. You know, there are no voters here, Senator, really... Mr. Marshal... Here we all have our views and we will vote the right way, really. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u4	Mr. Marshal, but you can see how you approach the case, because you're looking at it politically, turning to the voters, and I'm looking at the welfare of our children. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] That's what we're talking about, Mr. Marshal, is that you're just calculating, and I'm really talking about the business of the youngest who have a problem today. I don't want to... They don't have a problem. No kids have a problem. Mr. Marshal, but... You guys have problems. They have a very serious problem. You're the ones with the problems. You asked me if I read the papers. Mr. Marshal, I've read the papers, but I'll tell you the story of a certain...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u5	No, Mr. Senator, it's not a correction formula. ...problem... I'm gonna take your vote. Thank you very much. I can correct... No, no, no. ...Mr. Marshal, can't I? But, Senator... Because you accused me... Then correct it. I want to correct it because you're... What will the corrigendum be about?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u6	You accused me of unworthy behavior, you just accused me of unworthy behavior. I want to defend myself because I don't feel like doing anything that's unworthy. Then explain to me how this yearbook was wasted... That's what I want to explain. The whole year... But that's what I want to explain. Well, well, well. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's no explanation for that. I want to tell you... There's no explanation. I want to tell the story of one child. No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u7	No, no, no. Mr. Senator... But these are facts. Mr. Senator, we're not going to tell stories... But these are facts. ...because the story of one child doesn't apply to the entire yearbook. Mr. Senator, thank you. We move on to the vote because we have forty-six points. Testimony with a red belt... You wanted to... Mr. Marshal... You wanted to be admitted to the Platform? You've already been accepted. You're here. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I'm gonna take your vote. We proceed to the vote on Senator Napieralski's request to complete the agenda for the item: information from the Minister of National Education on the situation in the recruitment of pupils to secondary and secondary schools in 2019. Who's in favour of Senator Napieralski's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted against, 24 for, 53 against. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was rejected. Would anybody else like to speak on the agenda? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to submit a proposal for the amendment of the Law on the amendment of the Family and Care Code, the Law on Civil Procedure and the Law on Penal Code, Senate Print Nos 776 and 776 S, adopted on 19 March 2019 by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Mr. Marshal, once again I report this project because the situation in the Seym has changed. This project, the sejm project, went through committee work. Previously, the argument against the procedure was that these two projects were supposed to be identical. Now there is no doubt that in that project, there is not at all what is contained in the project, which together And the law and justice colleagues, and we, from the Civic Platform, have passed in committee. This project was supposed to go to proceding. Parental alienation is a problem that affects all people, our voters from 2 or 3 sides. I'd really like to ask... Mr. Senator, you've filed a motion. We're not having a debate, we're not having a discussion. A brief statement of reasons. I'm very quick to justify it. I'd really like to ask my colleagues to... Thank you very much. ...supporting this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u9	Everyone understands what's going on. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Martynowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u10	Mr. Marshal, I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u11	Thank you very much. We are voting on Senator Aleksander Pociej's request to introduce a point concerning... I'll tell you exactly... Where is it? No 776. Yes. Application for the entry into force of a point concerning the Civil Procedure Code and the Criminal Code. Senate prints No 776 and No 776 S. You're welcome. Who's in favor of the senator's request? Who's against this conclusion? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 51 against. [[Voting No 2]] The motion was rejected. Would any of you like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the eighty-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in the absence of legislative proposals to point one, i.e. draft resolution on the century of the Podhalan Union, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. If legislative proposals are tabled, the vote will be held after the session is stopped and the committee's report on the matter is prepared. Today at 10.30 p.m., a break will be ordered until 11.20 p.m. The next break will be announced at 12.10 a.m. It will be a break until 12.30 for the opening of the exhibition of 20 years of Poland in NATO. The votes on the laws set out in the second and third paragraphs shall be taken after consideration of the third paragraph. We will resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. At 12.30 we will begin to consider the point concerning the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. The vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. On Friday, we will begin at 9.00 a.m. with the examination of the first item 40, i.e. information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union. The laws contained in the paragraphs: 14th, i.e. Law amending the Commercial Companies Code, the 21st, i.e. Act on the implementation of social services by the Centre for Social Services, and the 25th, i.e. The law on amending the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Prison Service Act will be discussed directly after each other on the third day of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, once the committee has drawn up proposals for a change in the membership of the Senate committees, the agenda will be supplemented by this item. In the case of the adoption by the Sejm and the preparation by the Senate committees of the reports, the order will be supplemented by a law amending the Act on the amendment of the electoral code and the Act on the national referendum and the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the century of the Podhalan Union. I warmly welcome Mr Andrzej Skupnia, President of the Podhalan Union in Poland, and other guests who have arrived. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 1174, and the report I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Hamerski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Highlanders! Mom, the honor to present A draft resolution to the High House on the century of the Podhalan Union. Allow my loved ones to adopt the text of the contested resolution. The Podhalan Union, one of the oldest organizations in Poland, celebrates this year's jubilees: the centenary of the Highland regional movement (115 years ago the Highlander Union was formed), the century of the Podhale Union, the 90th anniversary of the Podhale Union in North America. Before the mountain regional movement took the form of an organization, it informally formed among the first mountain intellectuals, proud of their origin and culture. On 4 March 1904, the Zakopane Highlanders established the association of the Mountains Association, under the care of the blessed Andrzej Bobola. It was a pioneer of regional traffic in Podhale until 1939, among others. initiated the convent in 1911 in Zakopane and the Podhalan Convention. At the 4th Podhalan Convention in 1919, the Podhalan Union was established in Nowy Targ, organizing social and economic life in the region until the outbreak of war. Reactivated in 1945, under the pressure of communist power at the time, the Union was dissolved in 1948. It was rebuilt in 1957 and operates today, covering the entire Polish mountain range, from Olza to Poprad, uniting the proud Babiogórskie, Chadecki, Kliszczacki, Orava, Silesian, Pińskie, Podhale, Sądecki (white and black), conspiracy, Zagórzańskie and Żywieckie mountain rangers. The Podhalan Union serves the welfare of the Republic of Poland and the economic and cultural development of mountain lands, remaining in close relations with the emigrants established in 1929 in Chicago, the Podhalan Union in North America, which maintains and promotes mountain traditions in the USA, present in all Polish ventures, participating in all celebrations and celebrations. The Podhalan Union brings together not only native highlanders who cultivate cultural and moral distinctness, but also sympathizers who are enchanted by the tradition and modernity of this land. Saint John Paul II, an honorary member of the Podhalan Union, still as a cardinal, during his visit to Podhale, said: "Górale is a unique society that bears the mark of a great Polish tradition, so great that it must continue, so that no customs, no style and fashion of the present of this great Podhale tradition will destroy and deny. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses respect for the founders and activists of the Highlanders' Union, the Podhalan Union and the Podhalan Union in North America and calls on all public institutions and social organizations to support the great work of cultivating highlander traditions and culture For Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. The Pytos are very proud of the High House, which would like to pass this resolution. God bless you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the representative of the applicants. I remind you that Senator Jan Hamerski has been authorized to represent the applicants. Would any of you like to ask a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. In that case, the discussion is closed. And we are voting on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Podhalan Union. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 72 senators voted, all senators voted yes. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Podhalan Union. [[Applause]] I would ask you to take the approach of the President of the Podhalan Union in Poland, Mr Andrzej Skupnia. I'd like to give you a resolution. You're welcome. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] High Izbo, we proceed with the second agenda: the Act on Supplementary witnessing for persons unable to exist on their own. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1258, and the report of the Commission In print No 1258 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Supplementary Provision Act is created for persons unable to live independently because people with disabilities require additional benefits due to the inability to take up any work. Therefore, the government agrees that, in addition to the benefits in kind that have already been discussed with us, there should be additional cash benefits. There was a discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, and during this discussion amendments were tabled and amendments by Senator Rulewski were tabled and the amendment proposed by me was tabled. There was a vote on these amendments. Senator Rulewski's amendments were rejected and the amendment tabled by me, which changed the basis for calculating the benefit, so-called. 500+ for disabled people, has been accepted. The final results of the vote on this bill, along with the amendment approved, were such that some senators were in favour, 1 Senator abstained and 2 Senators were... Sorry, one senator was against it, and two senators held back. I propose that we pass this bill because it gives us the opportunity to improve the lives of people with disabilities. At the committee meeting there were representatives of the Sejm, there were 3 Members who also expressed their opinion on this law, and there were representatives and persons with disabilities, and their families from several different groups. Thank you. Already? The Commission proposes that this law be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u15	That's it? Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. And now I'm announcing a break for an hour... Which one? 11.20. 11.20 p.m., 11.20 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 29 to 11 minutes 22]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u16	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act on Supplementary witnessing for people unable to live on their own. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before me, you reported to Senator Nutchowska. In simple, clear words, she put forward a proposal that was supported by the government. This proposal, in such a form, introduces 2 new elements in relation to the Seym Law. The first is that the goodness of this law introduced by the Sejm is removed, namely that when determining the truth about the witnessing to the disabled of 500 PLN would not be taken into account that pensioners and pensioners receive such benefits from the general system. In other words, the fact that you received your pension, regardless of the amount, would be as if it were not a fact. These people, with other conditions, would benefit from the benefit of 500+. This concerns the first effect of the amendment proposed by Senator Nutchowska. The second effect is to introduce an increase in the elimination effect of the introduction of a rigid threshold. This rigid threshold in the Act assumed that the amount of aid received by disabled citizens with a significant degree of disability, or actually without the possibility of independent existence, was PLN 1 000 100. This is the amount of the lowest pension or pension. However, disabled citizens, who are the guardians of this law, may receive other forms of assistance, such as social assistance, such as some residual income from pensions. Then this amendment, which was made by Senator Orzechowska and the government, says that this threshold can be slightly exceeded, but not by more than 500 PLN, i.e. up to 1 thousand 600 PLN, reducing this benefit by the amount of excess. I don't think there's less than 20 zlotys in there. Yes? Well, because there's no point in the gold... If someone crossed 499 zlotys, it's state aid... Yeah, he'd get a cashier's fee. The minority proposal goes further, the minority proposal supported by people from different backgrounds. We're looking out Senator Augustine of the Platform, Senator Libicki of PSL, I as independent The fact that regardless of what we think of this law, given the fact that people with disabilities are forgotten, at least during this term, at least within a period of 20 months, when after the protesting action a change was promised... We believe that in this bill, which I call flat-rate, at least in some part of it, it can be removed, so to speak, horns that we believe are unfair, inadequate or unclear. The minority proposal, which she did not vote on, say, the right side of the political scene, talked about not sharing the 500+ rights due to age, 18. We thought that help 500+ should also include children under the age of 18. The government answers that they receive a normal 500+. I would say that the standard kind that every child gets today in the form of support for demographic policy. We believe that benefits for children with disabilities and to the extent, I would say, critical should be greater and include this form of assistance. Of course, the argument that they have been given 500+ recently may be important, but it does not cross this form of amendment, given that other forms are not sufficient. You have to take into account that people over the age of 18... Well, they were kids, they're still kids, as long as their parents are alive and taking care of them. Nevertheless, there was a chance that these people could have created a work. Although they do not have any benefits Unless this benefit is due to be up to 16 years of age However, they could have created the acquis. They can handle a lot of things. Even in the rules on hiring first-class or disabled disabled people, there are rights that make them able to earn up to 70%. an average wage. That's not a chance a kid has. By definition, because he's a child. He is a human being, a human being, but without the possibility of completely self-preparation for life. Hence this condition to bear this limit for 18 years. We say that if it's not 18 years, if it costs too much... Although we should remind you that before this bill, which Prime Minister Morawiecki calls the conscience of the state, the law on the conscience of the state, we have witnessed and heard how tens of billions were served from this stand regardless of any titles. This was emphasized and emphasized the environment. Whether you have income or no income, whether you can work, whether you can't work, whether you live in Warsaw, or in a small village where you can't supplement your income, if you want to... We believe that in this option, this contribution from the State should be included. But since I repeat, this budget account is already sick, and instead of self-sacrifice, it's just bites. 'Cause this bill is kind of a bitch. That's what we're saying is that it can bring that limit to 16 years. Why 16 years? Is that an invention, too? No. 16 years is the age when in the field of disability the child becomes a state of grade assessment. By the age of 16, there are no grades, then there are. 16 years is also the age at which the Labour Code allows young people to work, it has full professional rights. And another amendment that has not been shown here. I don't know for what reasons, because I think the minority amendment goes further, deeper and, I would say, it works fairer. Well, she says that this benefit should be valued, like most benefits, and that it should be a pension indicator. We do not want to bring about the situation which was precisely for each government in connection with the care provision, i.e. that for 11 years it was PLN 153 and was not valued. It was only the pressure of the disabled's environments, which continue to protest, that caused this rigid amount, some sacred number of 153 to move. Currently, this allowance amounts to a hundred and eighty pair of zlotys and there is a prospect of an increase. I think it's also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, there's no valorization in there. So we say that the question of disability, as defined by this law, which is very deep, cannot be dependent on the good or bad will of the government or any economic problems and with this amount, as a sum intended for an elementary existence, should exceptionally be linked to a permanent element of growth. This threshold is valued, but the benefit should also be valued. The government says he's gonna be looking forward to it. But I don't know if there's gonna be any more government and whether or not this government is gonna maintain its stability. In this proposal, which was not properly highlighted during the vote, there is a question of the fact that there are still sharpenings. Yes, Senator Orzechowska proposes in this amendment a flexible increase... to avoid this ugly threshold mechanism, but she says that some other titles that will be entitled to those who receive minimum pensions will not be considered, i.e. the principle that such persons will not be subject to this law at all. What are the titles? For example, it involves someone receiving an accident pension, especially an employee who suffered an accident that was not his own fault. If he gets this benefit and it gets bigger, as I understand it, than 1 thousand 100 zlotys, he won't get... If he gets two benefits, he won't get that benefit either. Well, this law is devoted to the disabled, and this disability is due to the employment relationship. The same applies if you receive a pension for occupational diseases. The government even, unfortunately, as part of the savings Senator Orzechowska confirmed it. In this case he deleted the performance of the combatant, the performance of the combatant, which is given to widows, i.e. 160 and 170 zlotys. So if one thousand and a hundred zlotys also joins the fact that such a person will be a combatant or a combatant, it will unfortunately mean that she will not get this benefit. We aim to ensure that the problem of these disabled persons under this option, which is ineffective, is resolved. Of course, on the part of the majority, there may be arguments that this is not a quantitative difference... Oh, I forgot to say that actually both our amendment, i.e. the minority and the amendment by Mrs Orzechowska are aiming to remove what caused the greatest tension, namely the burden or condition that this benefit is not entitled if there is a coincidence of 2 benefits, either a minimum or less than minimum pension. A survivor's pension or other survivor's pension, i.e. the survivor's pension which arises as a result of the parents' retirement into that world, their death. Because then, of course, there was a very sad situation: to a certain extent, this person gets 500+, but as soon as ZUS, KRUS or other institutions, military, grant her any family pension... And we remind you that the family pension does not have a fixed amount, it depends on the distribution of mass after the deceased and can be different, from 200 to... It's not more than 200% if someone gets a family pension. And then, of course, this wickedness is a sudden deterioration in the situation of a child, who is a mature man, an adult, but still loses a parent or a parent, e.g. because of a car accident... And thanks to this amendment, it would not be burdened or deprived of this benefit by another benefit, which is a family pension. So that this amendment would actually remove this psychological-life defect. It is worth noting, however, that this should not be a form of grace, because the family pension does not arise thanks to the good will of the state or by the grace of the state, only as a result of the insurance relationship, simply people, workers consist in it to satisfy their orphaned family members, wife and children after their leaving. Therefore, as if saying that the State is providing assistance and that no other assistance is, in my opinion, not entirely justified. Because it is simply the right of children, the family to claim from the deceased, which is automatic and should not, in my opinion, be conditioned by other forms of assistance. This amendment, fortunately, is conditionally removing, but, as I say, not to the extent necessary. Finally, there is a reflection to save time in the discussion. As I say, this budget bill is kind of a bit of a bitch, because it's the last projection of what's left in the budget, and there's not much left. Hence the question of the future. And of course it doesn't have character, even though the government boasts about it, programmed. Because the program is, I understand, some assumptions, it's a goal, it's a regulation. And this law is flat-rate, and whether it's an adult or an adult over the age of 18, a serious mental illness or a person who is undoubtedly disabled, but who is able to make extra money, which, fortunately, is not taken into account here. They are treated equally here. So there's a cry for what I'm calling for or many of us in social policy. The question of individualization is that where the situation is critical, there should be more. And the point is that where there is a repair possible, and especially the most important thing, that is to get these people out of a locked apartment, where even behind the state's gold-plated doors there is sadness, silence and desire for social life, professional activity... That should be the caselaw. And I'm sorry to say, Minister, despite your respect for the fact that you've been doing this for four years. whether we, as a country, have not worked out. So that this is a call for further work on the problem of disabled environments, the homeland of the disabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u18	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. You signed up for Senator Libicki. Tell me who the rapporteurs to... Senator Orzechowska. I'd like to invite the senator to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u19	I'd like to ask the senator two things. The first question is: did we talk at our committee yesterday about the fact that there is a difference between those who are beneficiaries of 500+ for each child or those who receive a 13th pension There are no requirements for possible thresholds And the persons to whom the provisions of this Act apply? However, it introduces a threshold for receiving public support. Did she mention that? What was the discussion? That's the first question. And the second question is, is this amendment that the senator has tabled... Since the amendment voted in the Sejm said that the criterion of PLN 1 000 100 does not include family pensions, incapacity for work and pensions... Is it that this amendment that you have tabled, this provision maintains, or is it that this amendment leaves only survivor's pensions as those that are not included in this criterion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u20	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u21	Mr. Senator, I believe you were present at the committee meeting, and you know that these matters have been discussed. Indeed, it has been said that there are no income criteria at 500+ per child and there are no income criteria for granting so-called. Thirteenth pension. However, these criteria are in the law that we are currently proceeding with. That's one thing. Second thing. About... Please repeat the second question again. Decouplings from the income threshold. The point is, the amendment that appeared in the Seym said that for these deductions... Does it hold, does it? Yes. Those amendments that I've tabled... Because this is a whole that includes 10 amendments. They also include this because they delete in the article. 2 in point 3 of all the reservations that have been taken into account. So that automatically sustains those values that... The whole Seym Amendment thing. Yes. I see.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u22	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u23	Mr. Senator Libicki He actually warned me about that question because I wanted to ask a senator like you and maybe Senator Rulevski. 500+ is granted regardless of profitability. Someone's making money, for example. 20 or 30 grand a month and, of course, he gets 500+. So I don't really understand why. I'm not a member of the committee, that's why I'm asking you this question. I can't really understand that people with disabilities, unable to exist independently, who have any benefits or even are without benefits, but want to be active if they exceed this threshold of PLN 1 thousand 100, then these 500 PLN will not receive. It's completely unfair, it's incomprehensible to me. How, then, do we treat people with disabilities by setting such low thresholds and such a low barrier? Therefore, I would ask you to explain what is the basis of this fact, that we are talking about introducing to people with disabilities any... Because we can discuss. I've heard that you've been discussing 1 000 100 or 1 thousand 600 when there are deductions, etc., etc., but in my opinion this is all a secondary problem. The first point, fundamental, is the question: why doesn't each of the disabled, unable to live on their own, receive 500+ regardless of any benefits? Are they supposed to be in charge of their activities right now... Is that what they're supposed to have problems with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u25	When it comes to proceding this law, it is a completely different assumption and a completely different scope. In addition, in the amendment that I am making, this does not apply to the amount of PLN 1 thousand 100, only PLN 1 thousand 600, i.e. when there is a income above PLN 1 thousand 100, there is practically a principle: zloty per zloty. Okay. And this is the amount that has now been set. As far as disabled people are concerned, we have already dealt with laws that have provided additional benefits for disabled persons, regardless of the income criterion. These were benefits in kind or benefits related to specific services. Such a process of proceding this law was accepted. The whole law without amendment would have a financial impact of PLN 3 billion, and with an amendment and a change in the rate of PLN 1 thousand 600 PLN 4 billion 500 thousand PLN. There is also a question of the time of entry into force which is planned for 1 October. It was simply a way of proceding, giving the possibility of such financial solutions. I believe that, indeed, the needs of people with disabilities are much greater than those who are fully operational. I really think that there is a chance to increase these benefits and include people regardless of income, but this is not yet possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u26	The question is Senator Augustine. Madam Senator, Madam President... About you... The question was up to two senators. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've already answered Senator Flork. Indeed, this law divides the environment of the disabled, introduces the threshold, introduces the criterion of the funds received. If these are public funds to which different titles are included, then the Act says that this threshold should be in principle 1 thousand 100 PLN, and if there is a slight overrun, it may be covered by a smaller sum of 500+ benefits. However, the Act is indifferent to income. When the government says there's no income threshold here, it's partly true. Because he says this: if a disabled person has a certain degree, which is in a very critical situation, he has income The ones you mentioned, even the big ones. They are the ones that are not taken into account. So it doesn't really destroy here, let's say, activation. But that in turn creates the problem that demonstrators are talking about right now. Why are there even such thresholds? How do we divide it? As you say, those who are active in some way, and those who are inactive, are differentiated here. In any case, I confirm that in terms of activation this law does not impose restrictions. He's only doing it in the field of state aid.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u28	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u29	(PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Will, as a result of your amendments, pensioners who are a basic group of people in need of assistance at a late age have a chance to do so? And if so, what group will it be because of the income criterion? It is equal to the lowest pension and pension. I just want to remind you, because many times it was said in the Senate that a group of people unable to exist on their own is estimated at 1 million 200 thousand people, of which 80% they are seniors who receive ordinary pensions. Not the social ones, not the family ones, but the regular ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u31	The calculations were carried out, which show that about 56 thousand persons entitled to benefits from the Social Security Office with a decision on incapacity for independent existence for raising the income threshold to PLN 1 thousand 600 will be covered by the benefit. People over the age of seventy-five... I don't know if the senator's asking, too, but there'll be about 360,000 of them, and there'll be over 31,000 people taking social security benefits in a runaway with a family pension.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u32	The questions have been exhausted. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz like to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shortly, because I think the questions were very specific and the senator answered them. But if I may add a little bit, I will try because the subject is very, very important and of course the questions arise from concern for those who are in the most difficult situation. I would certainly like to thank Senator Orzechowska because, after these amendments have been tabled, this law is certainly much, much better than before. As for the questions that the senators have asked, of course, a few corrections to Senator Rulewski's speech. The care allowance has an evaluation element. Every 3 years This is the case in the Care Allowance Act. It is subject to... Evaluation. ...estimation. But not valorization. That grade every three years was zero. In 2009, 2012, 2015 was zero and in 2018, for the first time, the fourth time, it was raised. This year, from 1 November it will amount to 215 PLN, as much as the care allowance for Rentists from the Social Insurance Institution. Of course, the biggest problem was this inequality of treatment: why did the social pensionists add PLN 153 and the pensioners from the Social Insurance Institution 215 PLN? We've managed to eliminate her. As far as the additive is concerned, in the act we clearly say that all the additives are excluded, so that the additive... In ZUS, as regards benefits, are pensions for total incapacity for work, pension for partial incapacity for work, pension for total incapacity for work in connection with an accident or occupational disease, pension for partial incapacity for work in connection with an accident or occupational disease. And those benefits are included. Of course, we turn off the family pension, which is also a witness. All the additions, i.e. the care supplement, the mattress supplement, the supplement for the entire orphanage, etc., etc., the supplement for the secret teaching are excluded. Extras are excluded in the article... I'll get right to the bill... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 is written exactly as follows: The supplementary benefit is granted to persons who are over 18 years of age and whose inability to exist alone has been determined by a judgment on total incapacity for work and incapacity for independent existence or... and are further mentioned by similar judgments. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2) It shall be granted to entitled persons who do not have a right to a financial benefit financed by public funds or the sum of those benefits of a non-one-off nature, together with the amount paid by foreign pension institutions, excluding the care allowance and other allowances and benefits paid together with that benefit. These add-ons are turned off directly in the bill, so when it comes to the combatant's add-on, it's definitely off. I would like to show one record very strongly, because to me it is very important. We're talking in our mouths. 2 on benefits to entitled persons who do not have a right to cash benefits financed by public funds or for which the sum of those benefits is a certain amount, not exceeding the lowest pension as previously in the Sejm, or As it is now, 1 thousand 600 PLN. But you have to remember that there are people unable to exist on their own, who have no benefits except care benefits. Yeah, they don't have any benefits. If these people turned 18 and didn't work I have a friend who, at the age of 21, has become completely incapable of self-existence and has not worked The only benefits are social assistance benefits. Social benefits are benefits that depend on the income criterion. The fixed benefit which these persons are entitled to is subject to a profit criterion. If this person is a single person, the criterion is PLN 701 and if he is in the family and is most often in the family, the criterion is PLN 528 per person in the family. If you do not exceed this criterion, you can get a fixed benefit of up to PLN 645, but it is actually calculated as the difference between the criterion, i.e. PLN 528 and income per person who is in the family. So in fact, these people usually get 300, 400 PLN or they get nothing. It is about those people with disabilities who are unable to do any work on their own who did not have time to earn pensions, and at the same time their disability arose at an adult age... These people either have some kind of symbolic fixed benefit or they have nothing. And the fact that we take these people with disabilities into account, we restore their dignity, because they will have their own source of income or their own financial resources, I think it is the most important. And not enough to repeat, because we're talking about pensions, we're talking about pensioners, we're talking about social pensions... There are people who don't have any benefits. This twenty-one-year-old friend of mine jumped into the pool and is completely paralyzed, lying, unable to exist alone and has no benefits because the income per person in the family exceeds PLN 528. So let us also remember that there are people who do not have any benefits. We're talking about how it's gonna look right now. Let us remember that since 1989 we have forgotten about these people. You can't see them, they're not included in the statistics, because they don't get any benefits, they don't see them, because they're lying and they're still in their place of residence. And it's worth remembering, too. Regarding Senator Libicki's statement and about 500+, I would like to remind you that when there was a criterion for the first child, 220 000 children with disabilities took this benefit, families with children with disabilities took this benefit. Today, when there is no criterion for the first child, 300 000 children with disabilities receive this benefit, parents of these children receive 500+ benefits. I believe that the fact that no disabled child is deprived of additional support in the form of education is something we can boast of. I think that we, as a society, can emphasize this. As for the 13th pension, which the senator also mentioned, let me remind you that among those who received this 13th pension, there were also social pensioners, there were those who received partial pension, there were those who... I believe, Mr. Senator, that the fact that every pensioner has been spotted, as well as a social pensioner, who has worked out a benefit in the insurance system, is something worth emphasising and something to be proud of. For people with disabilities certainly any additional financial means are useful, because we know how expensive the benefits, care and rehabilitation services are, all related to them, also treatment, because the disability is often associated with chronic diseases. We know how much it costs, and we know that for these people these funds are certainly not excessive. Senator Rulewski talked a lot about how it's small money. This year, if this law is implemented, additional PLN 4.5 billion will be added to people with disabilities. It will depend on the senators whether this 4.5 billion goes to people with disabilities or not. Is that little money? On a scale of the entire budget, they are not small. For specific people with disabilities who either have low benefits or do not have any benefits it is very, very important to start owning their own income, with their own financial means. Another thing. Senator Florek talked a little bit about it. I'll remind you that the extras and all kinds of income don't count... We are just talking about adding up public benefits. Of course, we want people with disabilities to work, so income from work doesn't count here. Similarly, income from other things is not included, e.g. income from compensation if the person has been injured and the person is known to be guilty of it or, for example, income from the rental of the apartment, from the sale of the apartment, etc. This is the income that doesn't count here, this is the one-off income that... Here in the bill, it's simply stated that such income doesn't count. Besides, it's not a public income. As far as the question is concerned, which group will be covered, the senator mentioned these groups quite specifically. I don't care if I have a cheat sheet that tells me who's gonna be included. This is the case: approx. 176 thousand pensioners of the Social Insurance Institution with a ruling on incapacity for self-existence; approx. 470 000 people aged 75 years and over who can apply for a decision on incapacity for self-existence; about 109 000 pensioners from KRUS; about 21 000 people collecting pensions and pensions from the system for officers, for uniformed services. As far as social assistance is concerned, these fixed benefits I've been talking about, 38,000 people will be eligible as... These are people who, due to their inability to live on their own, receive permanent allowances. Of course, there are no people here who do not take anything from social services, because their income per person in the family exceeds those thresholds. Further: 32 and 33 000 social pensionists; approx. 12 000 people who have a coincidence in social pensions with family pensions from other pension bodies than the Social Insurance Institution... And those disabled with a judgment of a significant degree of disability, who are unable to exist on their own. We've been talking about them before. - who are not eligible for benefits from the Social Insurance Institution or from social assistance. We're hoping it'll be about 125,000 people. We are counting on the fact that the benefit after the amendments that Senator Orzechowska has tabled will include about 800,000 people unable to exist alone. Like I say, there are often people we don't see because they don't leave their homes, they can't protest, they can't be here in the O.R. It's either a seym or a senate. I think someone like who, but the state should remember them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u34	Thank you, Minister. Senators can now ask a government representative about this item on the agenda. Senator Libicki was the first to come forward. And then Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u35	Thank you very much. Minister, because there are different interpretations here, I would like, despite the fact that Senator Orzechowska has answered this question, so that you may confirm it. This amendment, which appeared in the Parliamentary work and passed, ruled out, as regards the eligibility criterion for this benefit, persons who receive survivor's pensions, persons who receive invalidity pensions and those who receive pensions. I would like an answer to the following question. Is it that Senator Orzechowska's amendment retains this record, or is it that this amendment, I would say, retains only survivor's pensions, and the pensions for incapacity to work and pensions are already removed from that record? I'd ask you to dispel that doubt. And maybe I'll ask you a second question, auxiliary. It is as follows: does this amendment narrow the scope of the bearers of this law, which came to us from the Sejm, or does it maintain at the same level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u36	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senators, art. 2 (2) 2 expressly states that the benefit is payable to entitled persons who do not have a right to cash benefits or the sum of those benefits of a non-one-off nature, together with the amount paid by foreign pension institutions, excluding the care allowance now, after the Senator's amendment, also excluding the survivor's pension The amount of the pension shall not exceed the amount of the lowest pension in respect of total incapacity for work, on the basis of separate provisions prior to deduction, deductions and reductions. As regards this amendment and the bill that came to us, this amendment excluded point 6 from paragraph 6. 3. In the event of a conspiracy of the right to... so we're really talking about a conspiracy of benefits. If e.g. someone takes 2 benefits and there is a coincidence of these benefits, then it adds up. Of course, six said that in these benefits there are no pensions and pensions from the Pension Act from the Social Insurance Fund. There is one problem with this amendment and the senators are best aware of it, as they often prepare various kinds of draft laws implementing the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. It did not include other persons, and these other persons were those who were downloading. pensions referred to in the Social Insurance Act in respect of accidents at work and occupational diseases, benefits for combatants, benefits from pension insurance as referred to in the Social Insurance Act of farmers, and to make it more fun, social pensions as referred to in the Social Pensions Act. So this has created a very, very exclusionary bill that some people, pensioners and pensioners have treated better, and other groups of people, farmers and social pensioners have treated worse. Of course, the Senator's amendment eliminates this... I don't know what to call it. He's removing this amendment because he's cutting out his mouth completely. 3. This fugitive stays in his mouth. If there is a fugitive, these benefits add up. However, the benefits concerned are not mentioned. All benefits concerned It's just that. I'm sure he's eliminating it. diversity in the rights of different groups of persons who are unable to exist on their own. I do not know why Members felt that pensioners were the group most in need of support. That's it. As for what the senator asked in the second question, of course, Senator Orzechowska's amendments extend this group. We were hoping that it would be about 500,000 people earlier, and now it will be about 800,000 people because the amendment by Senator Orzechowska raises the amount of these benefits, which add up, to the amount of PLN 1 thousand 600. Well, one thousand and 600 zlotys, as we know, is certainly more than one thousand and 100 zlotys, which is why 800,000 people are going to benefit from a supplemental benefit for those unable to live on their own.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u37	Thank you, Minister. I declare the session adjourned, which will be extended until 1 p.m. at the request of the Civic Platform Club. I invite you senators to open the exhibition of 20 years of Poland in NATO. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 09 to 13 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u38	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act on Supplementary witnessing for people unable to live on their own. We are in the middle of asking questions to the Minister. Minister, you're welcome to the stand. You're asking the senator... Libite. ...Libic.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u39	Thank you. I'll wait for the minister. Minister, I'm going back to that case. I'd like to ask you something. My question seemed pretty clear to me. In response, the Minister quoted a passage from Senator Orzechowska's amendment; I listened very carefully. What is subject to exclusion from this criterion of public danin, that is... I mean, family pensions are excluded, but they're not talking about incapacity pensions and they're not talking about pensions, and that was part of the parliamentary amendment, which I agree was imperfect. All these amendments that the opposition had tabled were holistic, but in confusion only part of these amendments were accepted and necessarily They're not complete, that's what I'd say. I will ask this question again: does this mean that Senator Orzechowska's amendment excludes only survivor's pensions from this criterion, or does it exclude all those benefits which are included in this adopted Parliamentary amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u40	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To quote the law, I used the text of the law that was before the vote in the Sejm; it was a draft after a committee meeting with amendments to the Legislative Bureau, i.e. it was a report of the committee. And that law was voted by the Sejm. It was a literal quote from that bill. I just added that Senator Orzechowska also disables family pensions. What you're asking the senator is also... You talk so softly about it, and you have to say so specifically. In case of coincidence of various kinds of benefits... That's what the mouth says. 3 and that mouth. 3 mentions to be clear, 14 benefits. And you're talking about it as if it's one benefit that's removed the amendment, and it's changed something about the fact that there are 13 cases of this fugitive. I mentioned, for example, that there is a fugitive there when it comes to social pensions in terms of pensions and pensions from KRUS. Mr. Senator knows very well that where, where, but in the rural environment, the situation of people with disabilities is the most difficult. I know. The senator knows that. I'm surprised and As I said, I was surprised from the beginning why Members distinguished pensions and pensions from the Social Insurance Institution, not e.g. social pensions, veteran allowances or veterans' benefits, or e.g. benefits arising from farmers' pension social security, from the Farmers' Social Insurance Act. The senator knows very well that these people are in the most difficult situation. And if someone needs help, people with disabilities who live in rural areas, because in their case access to different types of services is certainly more difficult, and the situation often requires more effort, even when it comes to removing the barriers they face in their place of residence. I was talking about it because I think that the senator, as a person who knows the problems of people with disabilities, will definitely agree with me. In the mouth. 2 is a coincidence of various types of public-funded benefits and in paragraph 2. 3 these benefits are mentioned. The exclusion from this catalogue of one benefit at the expense of others results in the unequal treatment of one group, pensioners and pensioners from the Social Insurance Institution, the situation of which is certainly no worse than the social pensionists, than those who receive pensions and pensions from KRUS. I don't know why Mr. Senator thinks we should think first of all about pensioners who benefit from benefits under the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. So much for my question, Senator. But this is not my question, this is a question that many people with disabilities from different backgrounds are sure to ask at the moment: why pensioners and pensioners have been treated differently than those unable to live independently from birth, those who have acquired disability in childhood who are disabled unable to live independently in rural areas, which are e.g. Veterans? And we know how much in the Constitution we stress that the state should take care of its veterans. Why did we skip those benefits? I can't find the right answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u42	Thank you very much. I'll refer to you in your speech, Minister. Thank you. Okay, Mr. Senator. The question is Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, this is a government project, which means, I understand, you are familiar with the impact assessment of the regulation. You were talking about PLN 4.5 billion - about this will cost you. I would like to ask, is this after the amendments made by Mrs. Orzechowska that you mentioned? That's PLN 4.5 billion. And I'd like to know... If you count the total cost for people with disabilities to self-existence without taking these criteria into account, which is the same as for 500+ for the first child, what would be the cost for the budget? You said 4.5 billion at the moment. And what would it be if we didn't apply any criteria? What difference would it make? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u44	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u45	Thank you so much for asking. Speaking of 4.5 billion, of course I was talking about some estimates, because the amendment has not yet been accepted by the High House. Before that, we talked about 500 thousand people who would qualify. And that's pretty much the minimum number. And about 3 billion zlotys. So, speaking of 4.5 billion at the moment, I've taken into account the increase in the number of people following that amendment that the senator has tabled. As for people with disabilities who could qualify, I have data from the Social Insurance Institution on the number of people who from the Social Security Office collect welfare allowances for pensions due to inability to self-existence. These people are almost 300,000. And the number of people who receive a care supplement because of their age - each person over the age of seventy-five - receives such a care supplement - this is 2 million 53 thousand 180. And, of course, most, if not all, also qualify for a declaration of inability to exist on their own. And of course, how many of these people will have judgments, how many of them will apply for a judgment, we are not able to determine exactly, but we know for sure that some of these people may have a judgment. Is 60% , or 40% It's hard to say, because it's really up to them to apply for a ruling. But there are two important things. Firstly, of course, I do not have to convince your senators that we have problems with demographics, that we have an ageing society, that we have more and more 100-year-olds, ninety-year-olds. And of course they are not independent, of course they are incapable of independent existence. Secondly, we know that the family is in an increasingly difficult situation, because there is no longer a tradition of large families as before. We often meet in social assistance, for example. with a phenomenon such as the orphanage of European pensioners - children far away, grandchildren far away, there are two elderly people left alone. If it's the two of us, it's half poor, but there's often one single person left. And I can share this reflection, which is formulated among social workers, among those who run senior institutions: there is an increasing demand for psychological support. They suffer from depression, lack of sense of life, etc., etc. I'm sure we have to realize that in addition to incapacity for self-existence because of disability... Many older people could calmly seek a judgment on independence and disability, because in fact, with age, this disability also comes. We see how many older people use balconies, wheelchairs, bullets, etc., etc. Of course, this is a subject that is also worth remembering. We're still talking about respect. We know how many people are with a care supplement, but how many of these people want to get a judgment, we don't know. The second thing that the president of the Social Security Office strongly stressed yesterday at the committee meeting is that the ruling can take place at the seat of the hearing committee, but also at the committee as it has been so far, and especially in such cases. It may come to the home of a person who is disabled or unable to live alone and decide at his place of residence. So this isn't a barrier either. The Social Insurance Institution is prepared to show up at the place of residence of such a person and declare its inability to exist on its own. Now, speaking of what the senator said earlier, I'm going to give you another piece of information that's overdue. Well, the senator talked a lot about the activity of people with disabilities. As I mentioned, we specifically excluded income from this calculation system, whether or not a person will receive 500+. So that I would like to say that, of course, we care about the activities of people with disabilities, we want these people to be as active as possible, and we want them to take up employment. I would like to mention that at the moment we have record indicators in terms of labour participation rates, we have a record low unemployment rate among people with disabilities. So it is worth remembering that we are trying to activate people with disabilities. We know that professional activity is important for them, that it is also treated by many specialists as the best form of rehabilitation. This employment rate was 26.8% In 2016, and at the moment, it is 28.3%. Unemployment fell from 11.6% in 2016 to 7,2% in 2018 Of course, we still have a lot to do in this area when it comes to comparing with Europe, with Western European countries or with older members of the European Union, but this is difficult to compare because very different countries define and define disability and professional activity. Often these numbers are not necessarily easy to compare.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u46	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Antoni Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The needs of people with disabilities are enormous, but this law is significant. You said to the Minister that if we accept the amendment of Senator Orzechowska, it would cost her It will amount to PLN 4.5 billion, which means that what appeared in one of the honourable senators' speeches, that is, those words, that it is an ogre, should not appear. Well, PLN 4.5 billion of public money is a huge amount. But I would like to ask the Minister to be polite to make a summary, if only by password, of what happened in the last term of office as regards disabled persons. The point is to remind them of these solutions. I'm aware. And I think we all have it that these needs are much bigger, but this is not the only solution that has been adopted for people with disabilities. I would like to mention in a password those solutions which were proposed by the government or by Parliament concerning this important group of people with disabilities who are in deep need.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u48	Thank you, Senator, for the question. The problem with this presentation of solutions for disabled people is that there is really no one disability. There are people with various disabilities, with different needs, with different degrees of advancedness in terms of independence. So if we want to give them comprehensive support, then of course this support must be dedicated to a particular disabled person. This support is actually provided in two ways. On the one hand, we keep in mind the benefits, the various types of benefits that people with disabilities receive, and on the other hand, . about the services we need to provide for them so that their lives are as independent and active as possible. As far as disability benefits are concerned... Senator Rulewski was talking about a nursing allowance. He is important because it is this care allowance, for various benefits, that is to cover the increased costs associated with disability, rehabilitation, care. And, as the senator said, since 2006, this allowance has not been raised, it was PLN 153. As we discussed here, every three years there was a check on this benefit, but he didn't change. The same care allowance, which was paid by the Social Security Office to pensioners and disabled persons, was changing. Every year he was valued and actually raised. So that the difference between 215 and 153 PLN was created during this period. In 2018, we picked it up. In two steps because you had to fit it into the budget To PLN 215.84. The first step, in 2018, was to raise to PLN 184,42 and the second year will take place from 1 November this year and this will increase to PLN 215 84. There are probably two other benefits that are worth boasting about. The first issue is a social pension for people with disabilities. In 2015 it was still PLN 739 58 but at the moment it amounts to PLN 1 thousand 100. However, what is more important here is that it was a request of people with disabilities, the environment of people with disabilities, so that this benefit is equal to the lowest pension for incapacity to work And it's this high. And at the same time, because the Social Security Office values benefits every year, this social pension will also be valued every year. And that's an important story. Those who were unable to work because of their own fault, were unable to earn a pension or pension from the Social Insurance Institution, have the same social pension as the lowest pension for incapacity for work, i.e. 1 thousand 100 PLN. This benefit increased by PLN 360 in 4 years. I think it is worth remembering this, because the fact that we managed to raise this social pension is, of course, also due to the High House. I was talking about nursing care. Let me tell you about something that is often raised. On benefits for carers. This benefit has not been raised since 2008. Last year we raised it by 100 zlotys. The special welfare allowance increased from PLN 709 90 to PLN 846 42 and the welfare allowance increased from PLN 709 90 to PLN 846 42. Both these benefits One is with taking into account the income criterion, the other without this income criterion was increased by PLN 100 last year. It's still not much, but it was the first raise since 2008 and it's worth remembering that. We also have a clear increase in benefits for carers with disabilities. If parent It's the mother most often. He resigns from his job to take care of his disabled child, and he receives a care allowance. This care provision from 1 January 2019 amounts to PLN 2 thousand 161 and as part of this care service... You most often hear that it is PLN 1 thousand 583 because it is a net benefit, but there are added social and health contributions of PLN 578 and this is a security. If the person whose parents care, the mother takes care of... When the reason for taking care of this person ceases to exist, the person may retire because the social security contributions for that person are being paid out all the time. And when a parent, a mother, continues to take care of that person, then, reaching retirement age, does not have to go into retirement provision, it may continue to be on care provision, which is most often higher than the lowest retirement pension. In addition to services, domestic services are also important, but also the services of the centre which serve these purposes, because in addition to the provision of services, there is also an opportunity for activity, for integration. We run at least 3 such facilities dedicated to people with disabilities. We have workshops of occupational therapy financed by the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. We raise the amount annually by PLN 1 000. In 2015 it was PLN 14,000 796; in 2018 it was PLN 16 thousand 596; in 2019 To 18 thousand 996 zł. We have also increased funding in environmental self-help homes. These are centres similar to occupational therapy workshops, but dedicated to people who are disabled due to mental or intellectual disability. In 2016, it was PLN 1 thousand 268, at the moment per participant it is PLN 1 thousand 752 50. In 4 years there has been an increase of 500 PLN and it is worth noting that. For those who can only work under special conditions, we have professional activities. There some people are disabled, and these are people with significant disabilities, some workers are fit. Professional activities are also financed monthly from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. In 2018 there was a financing of PLN 18,000 500, this year we raised it to PLN 22,000. We are prepared to amend the regulation so that in 2020 it is 25 000 PLN per participant. And there's one more thing I have to say. Since 1 January this year, the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities has been launched. I will remind you that this year it is PLN 647 million, and next year there will be a solidarity tribute and it will be almost PLN 2 billion extra money for people with disabilities. That's where we run programs dedicated to specific people. The care service program was launched so that they were more accessible to people with disabilities, the rest care program was launched. At the moment, we are working on a personal assistant program for a disabled person. These are services that are actually dedicated to specific people with disabilities, specific groups of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u49	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u50	Mr. Marshal, thank you. And I want to apologize to the Minister for the trance of taking care of the disabled. I will ask for the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014, which states that the carers of disabled persons have different rights than those of today's law. Let me remind you that today we tell people with disabilities that they can all get 1 thousand 600 zł, they can have 1 thousand 600 zł. And the caretaker of a disabled person, sometimes caring for two parents, gets only 520 zlotys. That's the first question. What about the fact that your superior Rafalska, hurting the situation, especially the situation created by the PO, was talking about repairing the EWK, the pensions of women who had retired before? They didn't get it, either by the Senate's decision. I'm pointing to some people here. This supplementary benefit up to the amount of probably PLN 1 thousand 600. And finally, Minister, why do you favour Senator Orzechowska so that she blushes because I know she's a reliable, honest woman And you're forgetting... Maybe it's time to thank these non-governmental organisations, whose initiatives we have today exactly what we have. Because it's not because of the P.O. or the government or the great Senator Orzechowska. Please indicate that these are the people... It was their activity that maybe today we'll have what we have here. And finally, the third question. I maintain my position that in this bill, the infirmary of the war and the military Therefore, since the military are disabled, I stress with all my might: the disabled are discriminated against in this respect because you are deleting them here. I think it's in point 5 or 6... sorry, point 3 is about benefits from the Veterans Act. These benefits also include care allowances for disability or military pensions. So I was partly right here, but you're losing them here. And why do you forget in this favoritism that we, as a minority, are asking for the income of disabled workers? Oh, I'd say so. In other words, disability is sometimes not due to its own fault, to be ignored, as is the case in the case of family pensions. Don't you like me? Good. But at least let those invalids love you. And the third question, about the future... Mr. Senator, but... It's over...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u51	You've already asked four questions, and you're way past your usual time... But I didn't cross the question limit. That doesn't mean that every question is supposed to last a minute, but you're supposed to fit in a minute. Oh, interesting. You're welcome to leave now. You'll have another chance in the next round. Okay, okay. Thank you. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as I understand it, we're in a constant discussion because I remember the issue of family welfare homes. How did the senator ever turn on... Yeah, yeah. So, for years now, we have been discussing various kinds of solutions for those who need special care. As for the ruling of the Constitutional Court, yesterday, Professor. The hugging said a lot about the fact that there is a real need for an appropriate system of judgment. And work on changing the system of ruling has begun. But it also stressed another important issue yesterday: that, together with this law we are talking about, for the first time in the legal system, the notion of people unable to exist independently, of the independent. And it's actually very much related to what you're saying. The caretaker is needed for those unable to live on their own, where this care is most important and most important. Of course, the separation of a group of such persons certainly gives us a chance to properly implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. As far as EWK is concerned, of course, we are talking about an old story here, because the early retirement from childcare was when there were no care benefits. Of course, care services have improved the situation of many carers, especially mothers of disabled children. But have we completely forgotten about EWK? No, because reducing the retirement age to 60 caused these women to have a full pension at the moment because they worked 20 years. And when it was 27, they didn't have a full internship. And the second story: we raised the lowest pension to PLN 1 000 100, so of course this also applies to this group of people. However, this does not change the fact that many of these people, if they are still taking care of their children, are certainly in a difficult situation, they probably run out of strength, because the older the person, the more they need care, care and support. So I agree that there is a group of people who require our special care. As for the second question, I agree with the senator. We recently had a meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, where people from such... They've organized themselves as independent... They are the guardians of completely dependent, low-functioning people, those who sometimes require 24-hour care and accompanying them. And these people actually talked a lot about what requirements involves taking care of those who would not be able to function without care. And of course this bill is also a bow towards them. Because it has been them for a long time at various kinds of meetings that say that for them this support is often not prepared only because they are not organized. Because they often have no way of leaving their disabled family member. Often these family members are not seen because they are lying, do not leave their residence, etc. Of course, it is also worth saying that it was the carers of the disabled who paid attention to the importance of the family pension for the disabled person. At a time when one parent leaves his disabled family member, this family pension is such a clear support for this person in terms of daily functioning. And in fact, the fact that the senator has put family pensions back on as an exclusion from those benefits that are included... I think it's very important for a small, but very important group. Because these are the least functioning people. When it comes to war and military disability, I agree. And it's a good thing the senator's talking about them. Because we can't see that the history of disability is long either. Once upon a time, it was mostly the invalids of the war... Yeah, yeah. ...to a war or to people who have suffered an accident. Now we often talk about disability mainly in the context of people born with disabilities. But this is a new issue... Because there are no wars. ...in the history of disability. And it's always worth remembering the invalids of war and military. Of course, we don't cross them out. This amendment, Mrs. Senator, makes them all counted, they're all accounted for. And he's disabled his work, and he's disabled his war and his military. Because it is not the reason, but the degree of support needed should decide who and to what extent the support is provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u53	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Antoni Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u54	Minister, do the terms of this law prevent unauthorized entry into this system? The point is, there's no abuse. Does this law protect enough from this so that public funds go only to those who really need it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill refers to three conditions that must be fulfilled in order to receive the benefit. One: you must be 18 years old and live in Poland. Two: you have to have a judgment about inability to live on your own. And three: you can't have any funds or... benefits that are collected from public funds shouldn't exceed PLN 1 000 600. I mean. $1,000 600 if the Senator's amendment is accepted. Because in the bill that left the Sejm, it was 1 thousand 100 PLN. So, of course, these conditions are quite specific. And it will require a person to have a judgment of inability to exist on his own, or to obtain a judgment, and once again... I mean, not again. Such a person will already have a judgment, e.g. because of her total inability to work, but she will miss the second part of the ruling, so she will only have to state her independence, only that she is unable to exist on her own. And this, I hope, will allow you to reach out to those who are in the most difficult situation, those who either do not have any benefits, or have the lowest benefits, and at the same time are unable to exist on their own. And these are the conditions that must be met. And it is up to the medical examiners of the Social Insurance Institution that those who are capable of self-existence do not receive these decisions about incapacity, only that the aid actually goes to those who are in the most difficult situation, are unable to exist independently, need support in terms of normal functioning, and also have increased costs of rehabilitation, treatment, operation, sometimes equipment supply. Then, of course, such costs are certainly higher. And that's why it's 500+ as a supplemental benefit. At first, we thought of it as a rehabilitation experience or a rehabilitation supplement, but a rehabilitation benefit. It is already there, therefore the final name is a supplementary benefit. It is to be completed... due to these increased operating costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u56	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yesterday we held a meeting of the National Defence Committee, where we talked about health care, other kind of care, because care for those who suffered in military missions conducted by our country abroad, i.e. veterans and other victims in connection with the military service. I hear here that it's being said at the same time from the point of view of the Ministry. Are these matters corrected and separated, or do they overlap in any way?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u58	Of course, we do not exclude any disabled people here, regardless of where this disability came from. So we don't do it either when it comes to people who get benefits. I'm already looking, it's so nicely written here The benefits referred to in the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression, as well as the benefits referred to in the Act on pension provision of professional soldiers and their families, the Act on pension provision of police officers, agencies, various types of services. There's a witness here somewhere... These are the benefits referred to in the Law on the provision of cash and civil rights to blind victims of war activities. So, of course, all these benefits have their place here. It is also worth noting what the senator mentioned here, that Poland, as a member of the Security Council, requested that the Security Council adopt a regulation, a declaration on the environment of special care for people with disabilities during war activities. This is a very important issue, because people with disabilities during actions during various types of armed conflicts are those who are first exposed to different kinds of repercussions of these war activities. So that, on the one hand, we think of people with disabilities who have become disabled or otherwise independent as a result of foreign missions, on the other hand, we also remember of people with disabilities who are in the area of war and who should first be subject to care, support and security, because that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u59	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, don't you think that a six-month period is too short a time for all those who have a ruling on a significant degree of disability to be able to exercise the right under the law within the six-month period? However, this often applies to people whose legal awareness is not like the senator's or lawyer's consciousness. They are often excluded from all kinds of communication and information. Wouldn't it make sense to give them a period of time, e.g. 12 months, so that all those who may be beneficiaries of this law may exercise their authority? After all, it is not a question of queueing this problem, but of really realizing it to all those who may need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the six months we've been here are based on the information we've received from the Social Insurance Institution. The Social Insurance Institution has committed that six months is enough to decide on all those willing. Let me remind you that these six months are so that people who are at the moment people who meet all the criteria, but who do not have a ruling on incapacity for self-existence, can submit an application. They will have six months to get that ruling, and the benefit will be granted from the moment the application is made. We didn't want to prolong it too much so as not to give the Social Insurance Institution an excuse to not necessarily try to rule as soon as possible. I'm sure we'll be monitoring it. If there are any threats, we will postulate that this period be extended. A small amendment, a small change in the bill is for quick introduction. As I say, at the moment, the Social Insurance Institution assures us that six months will be enough. It also promises what I said earlier that the doctors of the jurors will also judge in the place of residence of people with disabilities, which is very, very important for many of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u62	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? The senator wants it. As usual, I don't see a senator from here. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the amendment adopted by the committee, the already famous amendment. How is it with those deported to forced labor to the Third Reich? Will they lose on this amendment or gain? It can also be that some lose and some gain. They were not included in the original text, and with this amendment they are supposed to be. They take such an allowance to a pension. He depends on how long they worked for the Third Reich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, like I said, when it comes to the coincidence of benefits, he's in the article. In paragraph 2, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 2. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 was so much more technical and showing various types of benefits that may occur and are financed by public funds. As for the amendment that the senator has tabled, it is certainly important that the threshold for these benefits has changed. Previously, he could not exceed the lowest pension for incapacity for work, or 1 thousand 100 PLN. At the moment he will not be able to exceed 1 thousand 600 PLN, and those with a coincidence of 2 or 3 benefits and who will have less than 1 thousand 600 PLN will, of course, receive a supplemental benefit. Once again, in calculating the amount of public benefits, we do not take into account various types of allowances. This is not subject to execution, it is not taxed. Family pensions and nursing allowances are excluded here. Rehabilitation relief can also be used for this witnessing. Of course, it is such a guarantee that only these basic benefits are actually included here, so that additional items are not included at the threshold which entitles them to supplementary benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u66	I am returning to the discussion of the committee meeting. As you know, Minister, together we had a lot of doubts about the article. 2 (2) 2, i.e. precise threshold setting. Is it gross or is it net? I thought... I ask you if you have slept with this subject and you are able to answer the question reliably and precisely today, whether this threshold, as some say, with the lowest pension of PLN 935, i.e. after deduction... Or, as the law says, that's how I interpret it. This threshold is the amount that a disabled person will receive in this case? Is it like in the bill, 1 thousand 100 PLN? One thousand hundred zlotys, on hand... Will the coincidence of all these benefits also mean a handful? Please answer me. And a difficult question, you do not have to answer it, when the government discovers what it supposedly has, has already prepared, as regards the case law, which you also talk about very often and constructively, for the whole of Poland, because you say that without good case law, we will have wholesale and ogryzkowe laws for the disabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u67	Thank you very much. I'm gonna start with the second question because it's probably easier or maybe more important. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of case law, if it is to be a real reform, takes time, requires a large public debate, requires broad consultation, it simply takes time. When the care provision was introduced in Germany, care insurance was the same period of 6 years. So no one will do it in six months or a year. It's been four years. I believe that the reform of case law must be restored at the beginning of the next term of office, and then there will be a chance that a new system of ruling will be established within 4 years. But I'm sure he's needed, that's out of the question. From all sides, we hear that the case law so far is difficult. I'll remind you that there are, I don't know, seven systems of judgment, because it's educational, disability, inability to work... Military. ...the military, uniformed police and firefighters, etc., etc. They also have their judgments, for example. Judges and prosecutors, he's got Prison Service. So this is really, really much. It would be useful for an agency to be established to rule for different purposes, and for definitions and standards to be the same, so that no matter what the purpose of the judgment is, the judgment is recognised. So I believe that the beginning of the next term is the start of work on the reform. There's no other way. Surely this cannot be done in the last year of the term of office, because it is known that society needs to be prepared for it, it needs to be discussed with society, it really needs to be consulted widely. It can't be something a group of experts will come up with. The second thing you said about the senator was a net, gross matter. I think two things are more important here. One is that any supplementary benefit will require a decision, and the granting, and the refusal will require an administrative decision. And, of course, in the administrative decision, whether you take a pension, a pension or a supplementary benefit, gross amounts are always given, and that is because it is difficult to determine what the deduction will be for a person, whether it will be for example. execution from maintenance fund or tax, because it will have income from the apartment that it rents, etc., they will be at different amounts. The provision of gross amounts is really safe and unambiguous. As I say, all benefits granted at the moment are determined in the gross amount. It is not that in the case of any benefits, pensions, pensions, we get a decision from the Social Insurance Institution and it shows us the gross and net amount. No, the decision has a gross amount, because we pay different taxes, we have different deductions from our benefits. So it's clear. Yesterday, the president of the Social Security Office made it clear that all the decisions they make with regard to social security benefits are gross. It's out of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u68	Thank you very much. I do not see senators applying, so thank you very much to the Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating the so-called. supplementary services for persons with disabilities. I think there's actually a lot to talk about, but two problems are fundamental and they're related. The first problem is that, of course, every form of support for people with disabilities, including this, regardless of which group it should be addressed and to which it is directed, is something important and important. I'm probably a little different from Senator Rulewski at this point, because I think it's a good thing that the government is presenting such a proposal. But that's probably the only thing I can undoubtedly think of as positive, for the rest of the matter, there's a lot of doubt, The first is the following, and related to what I said. The fact is that, during these four years, we in this House have voted many benefits. We voted 500+ for the second and the next child, we voted 500+ for the first child, we voted 13th pension, i.e. 880 PLN, for each pensioner. And now, suddenly, there is another witness - for those unable to exist on their own. Of all the groups I've mentioned, this group seems the most in need of support. And here suddenly there is a financial barrier, a certain financial criterion that says: no, if from public funds you receive this and that amount, then even when you are incapable of self-existence, you do not deserve such a benefit. Let us accept the most optimistic option - that this is the 1 thousand 600 PLN we are talking about. This means that anyone who will have these benefits PLN 1 thousand 605, even if he is incapable of self-existence, will no longer receive PLN 500. And by referring again to the votes of this term of office... After all, 880 PLN 13th pension also received, according to the press, 30 people from the list of 100 richest Poles. This was also received by members of my family who have really high pensions because they were e.g. Members of the European Parliament. Yes? And no one said at the time that you have to make a motion that you have to stand before some committee. No, they just got the money from the vending machine. If these people are protesting today and we are hearing these voices, they are protesting precisely because, as they say, former Members of the European Parliament receive without a criterion, Poles for each child receive without a criterion, and for us who are incapable of independent existence, suddenly this criterion appears. This is a fundamental problem and this is the central point of this debate. Minister Michałkiewicz spoke here about the problem of the reform of case law. Yeah, that's right, that's the problem. And the Minister was saying exactly what we were saying at the time that this team, which was supposed to reform the disability ruling, was appointed by Prime Minister Szydło. The state then spoke when there were protests of people with disabilities and occupation strikes... As for the form of these strikes, I didn't like it very much either. I believe that blocking public offices by any social group is not the best way to express your opposition. What did this group want? This group demanded 500 PLN. They called it an addition or a rehabilitation service then, in the common sense of the word. The state then said that you couldn't give it in cash because you had to reform the disability system and that this team would deal with it very quickly. We then said that it is very complicated matter, that it cannot be done so once-two and that it is an undertaking for the entire term. Minister Michałkiewicz confirmed it today from this podium. I talked to some of the members of this band and they said, "Lord, if I knew it was so complicated, I wouldn't be invited to this band." So about this... We would like to make it very clear that we had this position when you said that you would get away with it in six months. Now here's the deal. And that's what the patron at our committee was talking about. That's why... It is important to be clear: this amendment, which was tabled in the Seym, is obviously not a complete amendment. Why? The opposition has made a number of amendments, which were a whole, and the state has, by some confusion, accepted one of these amendments, which, in our view, improves the situation of people with disabilities, but because it is fragmented, it also has its drawbacks. Such a disadvantage is e.g. the fact that it covers only those who are beneficiaries of the Social Insurance Fund and does not cover those who are beneficiaries and clients of the KRUS or so-called. Uniforms. I would therefore like to make an amendment on my own behalf and that of Senators Grodzki and Augustine. And the second amendment, also by the three of us. This amendment eliminates this main problem that I have been talking about, which eliminates this threshold for public benefits. We believe that anyone who has, so to speak, an inability to exist on his own should have the right to do so. Those are the two amendments we're going to make. Now there's one more thing I want to say. The provision of this law states that persons who do not have a ZUS ruling on incapacity for self-existence will have to declare themselves. I see two problems here. The first problem is this. We know that ZUS suffers from a lack of adequate staff, an adequate number of medical examiners. I don't know if those doctors who are gonna be able to deal with this within six months. The second problem is that most people with disabilities have judgments given by district teams on disability cases. A relatively small number of people have ZUS rulings. And that, in my opinion, is a criterion narrowing down the circle of these beneficiaries, and not everyone, so to speak, will benefit from it. There's one more thing I'm thinking about. And here I would like to stress one thing very strongly, namely I would like to thank Senator Rulewski for at least one of his amendments, although one could probably be thanked for their greater number. I am thinking here of this amendment, which eliminates the criterion of a potential beneficiary's 18-year-old age. I mean, if there's anybody... First, such a judgment is obtained at the age of 16, so they stay here for two more years. Secondly, I speak this in non-legal language, in the language of life, if a child is born with such a disability, that it is known that he will never be able to live on his own, in my opinion these parents should receive such benefits from the moment they apply to the appropriate institution and not wait until they are eighteen years old. After all, it is known that this child's health will not improve. And now with all these restrictions That's the last thing I want to say. Because of the situation that I started... During this term, the various social groups who received public funds without any barriers passed through this room. As far as the public funds they received are concerned, I have already mentioned this: 500+, 13th pension, etc., etc. The state is still in my opinion that you seek to narrow down this group of beneficiaries who will have a ruling on inability to exist on their own. Well, there's a suspicion in me. And that's the last thing I want to say. It's supposed to look a little bit like that people unable to exist on their own will get a little bit, to a very small extent we will help them, and outside, for people who are not familiar with this environment every day, it will be presented as another prostration, another gesture towards the whole environment of people with disabilities. If there's such an intention behind it I hope not. What I'm trying to say is that it's really not a good intention. Thank you very much and I give these amendments to the Marshal signed by Senator Augustine, Senator Grodzki and myself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn will speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u71	Minister! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I spent many years of my life and much of my work in the Senate. It seems that when you design solutions in any case, for anyone, it's good to rely on knowledge, knowledge of things. So serious measures that the government has found Which, of course, is worthy of recognition... Well, it would be good for them to be properly addressed and to help achieve what is most necessary. Unfortunately, this is not the case at all. So let's stop for a moment over this situation that the Minister mentioned a little bit. Let's look at the condition of carers and independents themselves in Poland. There are about 1 million 200,000, 1 million 300,000. Since there is no precise judgment in this area, there is also no clarity about the number of judgments. I'm based here on the calculations of Mr. Professor. Błędowski and a team of scientists It's a pretty fresh calculation, because it's from last year. The situation of these people is, of course, diverse. First of all, it's a derivative of the family situation. Whether they have family help or they do not have family help. In the vast part of the family they are trying to help as they can, and it still distinguishes us from the Western countries, although, as the Minister rightly pointed out, this is becoming increasingly difficult. And it's gonna get harder and harder, because family change is progressing, mobility associated with, for example, work is getting bigger and family ties are getting weaker. Already 19% Young people don't see the need, the obligation to take care of their loved ones, the older ones. This is an emergency signal. The State must also be involved in this matter because labour costs are rising, and in external care it is really only the caretaker's job. These salaries are growing many times faster than pensions and pensions, which, in relation to work, the Social Security Office says, will be decreasing. And we are not creating this solution for today, but for the future - at least I think so. Therefore, there is a huge problem of lack of carers, there is a huge problem of family failure, there is a huge problem of finance, which is needed to improve the situation of independent people. We have a very poor range of services available. Do you know what is common in Western countries, that there are separate entire settlements, houses with special services where seniors live until late years. There are very few exceptions in Poland. Something's trying to make sure there's no government doesn't. Or I don't see it. You try to do it a little bit, but it's all microscaled in relation to your needs. Even with this job that's there, there's an increase in the gap between needs and what's being done. Rather, I would say that this is a branding of a job that should be a system rather than a real problem. Because these government programs are really funded at a level that would meet the demand for services, but in the perspective of decades, and we don't have that time, because the ageing population is progressing and 80% All those people in need of care are those old people. Let us remember that elderly people, that is, after eighty years of age, arrive twice as fast as pensioners at all. It's so-called. the phenomenon of double ageing. We've been told that we don't have a ruling. That's very sad, because a year and a half ago I saw Professor Uścińska here and she said the solutions were ready. Why was it not decided to implement it? It is difficult for me to say, but of course it is very important to control these expenses and to be able to differentiate the amount of the benefit according to the need for care. There's no such distinction here. Whether you need a welfare home for $3.5,000 or you need care for 2 hours a day, you'll get $500 if you get it. And yet these are completely different costs, completely different circumstances. In general, this benefit is, unfortunately, only for some, and to a large extent it is granted because of the income criterion and the situation of the person concerned himself, and it ignores or completely ignores the situation of the family, which is crucial. This is not here, and after all you need to help direct it right there, to the families, to save this basic, most valuable resource that we still have, even though it is shrinking, which is priceless. And it seems to me that this is one of the major flaws of this project, which should take into account the ability to care and maintain the capacity of the family in this area as long as it can be done. 500 zł, ladies and gentlemen, this is 40 minutes of care on the assumption that we only pay 20 zł per hour. 40 minutes of care per day can be financed for this. The caretaker won't make it back in time, and it won't be enough time to take care of him. Therefore, this witness is not enough that it is not varied, it is still far too low, even for those with the lowest needs. I understand that family... It would be awful if you wanted your family to do a financial effort too, but you have to help your families because these costs are too high. It is also mentioned in the European Union's documents that this should be the direction of systemic change. There is also a lack of thought that promotes the caretaker's profession and draws those carers we have out of the grey area. Today in Warsaw probably a dozen thousand people, you could say, apart from official circulation, not to say illegally, will go to Warsaw families to provide caring services Without any guarantee as to the quality of these services, without any control, without any taxes, without any employee rights. This is not just a problem of Poland This is the problem of the whole of Europe. More and more countries see it and try to get them out of the grey zone. The witnessing should serve this purpose, and that will absolutely not serve it. We are very lacking in quality standards, especially in home care services. Work is taking place, also with EU money, but this still does not become a common law. And there's no mention of that in this bill either. There are no mechanisms to trigger the services market. Minister, we have been dealing with this issue together for so many years. The care of seniors cannot and will not be a matter only of the ministry or the state, or of local governments or families themselves. This must be a common national issue to which public money can be encouraged by combining it with private ones so that a range of services is definitely enriched and people can afford to buy these services. I wanted to show you this way. And this is just a clipping. What should be done. Put this country together with what's being done. It seems to me that this is a good time to remind you that here in the Senate the senators have prepared solutions that, although they are not a comprehensive solution in themselves, could be a specific overlay for all of these past, numerous uplinking benefits is one coherent whole, so as to get people out of the grey zone, ensure quality and ensure the development of services, and also help families to finance these services. That's what we can do. We have a solution. I can already say that my work in this House is coming to an end. I leave this project to the ministry and the senators. Do not accuse yourself of working on a comprehensive solution to the situation of independent people. The Minister's right. They don't knock on our door, they don't go out on the street. But there will be more and more of them, and they will have names, Dear ones, your parents, your grandparents, your neighbors. These Poles must be taken care of first, not as they are now. In the last one. And it can't be that they're differentiated by some kind of criterion. They must be cared for because of their needs and take into account the opportunities to obtain carers and their hands for work. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your patience. Thank you for your attention. I'm gonna end up having mixed feelings about this. I've been fighting for years. I'm not the only one. It's about making sure there's any more money for this group. When they appear, it turns out that they are not used to bring maximum benefit to this environment. That's too bad, 'cause we could be a lot happier. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot has been said. But it seems that the law passed in the Sejm is disturbing someone. And as long as we do not usually make amendments to Parliamentary laws, or these amendments are few, there is one amendment to this law, which is good for the disabled, and one amendment was tabled at the committee meeting, which had three parties, and Senator Rulewski's amendments were rejected. The impression is that something good has been done for the disabled in the Seym, not everyone likes it. And that's what worried me. And when I heard from some of the representatives of the ruling party that it was a mistake that a good bill was passed for the disabled... Well, it must be said that saying a mistake about something that is good for the most miserable, hurtful people, shows contempt, is shameful and something like that should never fall from the mouth of a Member or a Senator of the Republic or any decent person. So let's not talk about this mistake anymore, and let's talk about these amendments. I will remind you that the minimum wage in Poland since 1 January 2019 is PLN 2 000 250. So what if we're bragging that we're offering someone a maximum of 1,600 zlotys? Let each of us take 1 thousand 600 PLN and, while in a wheelchair, mentally disabled or otherwise injured, and try to survive for it. The Minister mentioned that children with disabilities up to 18 years of age still receive an additional 500 PLN. But if someone's 18 and a few months old, they won't get that money anymore. Because I will remind you that in the original text of the law in the article. 4 is hard-written: Supplementary benefit is granted to persons entitled to 500 PLN per month. But already in the proposed amendments, which smells like an old tradition related to the famous law and the famous 4 is not hard-recorded, but it is written: It serves a person entitled of not more than 500 PLN. So someone can get 50 zlotys, 100 zlotys, 150 zlotys. Well, that's not how you do it. It must be said that you do not want to give these disabled people more than 1 thousand 600 PLN, because 1 thousand 100 PLN plus 500 PLN it is 1 thousand 600 PLN and if someone has an amount of 1 thousand 450 PLN, they will get a maximum of 150 PLN and no more. This is not a high amount, especially for people who are so-called. Upstairs prisoners who do not sometimes have family support or deeply affected by disability and completely incapable of independent existence. That is why I supported the amendment, I signed the amendment by Senator Libicki, who rightly notes that children, first the second, then the first, retirees get support that is not subject to any income criterion, and those who cannot complain who are severely injured in health, deeply injured in life and are fighting to live and live, are suddenly concerned with the income criterion, and that is at a level of over 600 PLN lower than the lowest salary in this country. Is that humane? Is that the right approach? Are we just trying to pretend that we care about the disabled? Therefore, I ask you to take a serious turn at the amendment tabled by Senator Libicki with my colleague Augustine and with my humble person. The designation of the civilization of the state is among others. It's how we take care of children, the elderly and the disabled. If we measure our level of civilization this way, what we have to offer them puts us in the midst of Western civilization extremely low. The Senate can change that, which is why I'm asking for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u74	Thank you very much. The floor will be taken by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u75	The Sejm has passed a law that has given great support to people with disabilities. This bill is supported by the families of these people. We heard these families here, outside the window. They were hoping this support would be important. The monthly cost of treatment and rehabilitation of a person unable to exist alone is at least PLN 4,000. The coverage of the tournament, which is currently estimated at PLN 6,000... Turnus, which provides rehabilitation, is very often outside the reach of these families, and after all, such rehabilitation must be carried out in the life of such a person not once, but repeatedly, at least once a year. This is the situation of the most deprived group, whose state support is primarily due. In the meantime, you're talking. This is said by the Members of the PIS, the Government of the PIS. The Parliamentary Law needs to be improved, i.e. I think it needs to be improved. Well, it should be understood, in my opinion, how to improve rather than make it worse. Since 500+ is passed on without any criteria, and here criteria are introduced that limit the possibility of receiving support, various criteria, how should this be defined? In my opinion, this is the replacement of social policy with electoral policy. Social policy is that support is addressed to specific groups, to those who most need this support. The permanent disability of a family member, a child who grows up and becomes an adult, but constantly needs support, after all, it is a huge burden for parents, for the family. I thought that such arguments would be taken into account, reaching the government, i.e. those who decide who should be supported first. Unfortunately, I can see that I was wrong. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u76	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Jan Rulewski, Jan Filip Libicki, Mieczysław Augustyn and Tomasz Grodzki. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No, thank you. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Fire Protection Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1262, and the report of the Commission In print No 1262 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Waldemar Sługocki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u77	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on the amendment of the Fire Protection Act adopted by the Sejm on 19 July 2019. Mr. Marshal of the Senate sent the bill to the committee on 23 July 2019. After considering the Act at its meeting on 30 July 2019, namely yesterday, the committee asks the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. I would like to inform your marshal, the High House, that we have had a very interesting, interesting, important debate on the possibility of supporting the voluntary fire department units from the state budget. I want all of us to pay attention to the fact that the voluntary fire department is carrying out a lot of very important tasks for the local community, as well as for the fire protection system. And I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there are tasks in this bill that voluntary fire services as fire protection units are at the same time associations. This, too, should be mentioned. They're implementing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can I... I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator, this is insanely disturbing. Thank you very much. Quiet in the courtroom, please. They've been doing this for nearly 150 years. It is also worth noting that in our country there are more than 16,000 250 volunteer firefighters, of which nearly 4,000 500 operate within the national rescue and fire-fighting system. The voluntary fire brigade brings together nearly 700,000 bridesmaids and bridesmaids, active, supportive and honorary youth fire teams. I would like to tell you that this law regulates the transfer of funds to the functioning of voluntary firefighters. I would like to say that the bill that we were proceding was adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland with 422 votes in favour. There were no votes against, three Members abstained. The Act provides that funds for the implementation of specific tasks will be transferred through units... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator... They talk all the time. What are you so nervous about? Please? What are you so nervous about? Me? No. The senator is talking, and it's bothering you. ...they are transferred through local government units. It's important for a few reasons. Firstly, Member States, local government units which celebrate the 30th anniversary of their operation because they were set up on 8 March 1990, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, subsidiarity carry out those tasks which they can best identify and which they properly support. Undoubtedly, voluntary firefighters have been on the ground by local government units since the beginning of their existence, local authorities, municipalities, supported, well-supported, and we also talked to the Minister and General at the committee meeting yesterday. This support system seems to be incredibly effective, but also rational. It is enough to say that many other tasks important from the point of view of the functioning of the Polish state, but also Poles and Poles are carried out. Through local government units funds are transferred to implement, among others. 500+ programme. Here, local government units are perfectly fulfilling their role. We are convinced that, in this respect too, the transfer of funds for the operation of voluntary fire services through local government units will not only allow them to be passed on effectively, but also build a kind of synergy, complementarity between measures which are transferred by local government units. Of course, the proposal was also submitted by a minority and, as I understand it, will be presented by my committee colleague. Therefore, on behalf of the majority of the Committee on Territorial Government and Public Administration, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u78	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! As far as my predecessor is concerned, I agree with a lot of his opinions or identify myself, because I have experienced daily the needs of voluntary firefighters and the State Fire Department. I am aware, as I say, of the experience that without their help, without their action, without their existence at all the functioning of the ancients, the commune or district is impossible, especially when there are threats and these threats are not only fire risks, because this guard, which operates, professional and voluntary, is today being used in the event of many, many other threats, whether on the road or flood roads or such or other ailments, even on the part of the game. In such situations, there is always a request for the intervention of the guards. As far as the volunteer guards are concerned, I remember the initial period when the guards entered the national fire escape system. I was the mayor at the time, and I remember that these units didn't even have a dollar grant from the state. Only in time, more than 20 years have passed, and these guards are gradually supported. As for the last time, the last few years, we've had a lot of money to split into these guards over the last four years. More than 100 million were allocated from the Justice Fund in 2018. This year, there are about 83 million PLN for the units that are in the national rescue and fire system, and for those units that are outside of the system, 44 million PLN. Within the framework of this investment fund, which has been, over the last 4 years, equipment has been transferred to the guard for more than PLN 500 million. So this is really huge support for these units. This law also provides that this year there will be additional funds of PLN 82 million for these very guards. This law on the amendment of the Fire Protection Act allows that not only equipment and other elements can be allocated to this money, but also to... In addition to this, let's say, the first point, namely the fight against fires, elements, there are also such points as: the organisation of projects to promote sport and physical culture; the organisation of educational and cultural projects promoting knowledge and skills in the field of fire protection; the dissemination and promotion of forms of interaction between local social and economic partners in the field of fire protection; the promotion of the principles of first aid. As if the dispute that arose at the committee's meeting was a dispute, how at the end of these measures to separate, because everything else was less important. The amendments that were made, voted in the Sejm, provided that, at the end of the day, there would be a distribution of these funds by the CSR units, possibly with the support of the local government units or by the local government units. The proposal of amendments on our part, which was rejected by votes of 4:3, provided that this final chapter and, as if qualification, the transmission of applications would be carried out by the PSP, in full consultation, agreement between TSOs and district units, would be transferred to the voivodship and will be financed after approval. As far as the allocation of these measures is concerned, it will still be decided how much, if any, for each of these points, which are mentioned in the Act, will be assigned resources, but it is already within the competence of the Minister and his, so to speak, of this executive body, which is the main command. We have tabled 3 amendments, and I will no longer submit them, because they were submitted at the committee meeting. In which we are asking that there be some consistency, full continuity, so that this process of division or acceptance at the end is in line with the Regulation and what is so far in order for this process to be carried out in this way. And it's like the difference between the two votes that were. On the one hand, this division was notified by me, and in the law was introduced another. We believe that as a result of the adoption of this law there is a dichotomy, and these amendments would restore this element, so to speak, uniformity in decision-making on the division, opinion and subsequent allocation of these measures. I'm the one who's got that kind of attention. I ask you to accept the minority's motion to accept these amendments, which, as I say, I will no longer make, because they were made at the committee meeting that was yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u80	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Jackowski reporting. To whom is the question addressed? Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am directing the question to Senator Sługocki, the rapporteur of the committee. You're welcome, senator, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u81	Mr Senator, you mentioned that there was a broad discussion at the committee meeting about CSR in general and various activities supporting voluntary firefighters. So I have a question for you. During this discussion, was the committee meeting also discussing a request that has been put forward by the CSR community for years, in the form of some pension allowance, as if to sanction some amount of long-term service in voluntary firefighters? Was such a mechanism even mentioned in this discussion at the committee meeting? Thank you. Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u82	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, Senator, for this very important and, I think, an interesting question for many of us, but I must honestly admit that such a thread did not appear in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u84	Are there any further questions? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u85	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I'd like to know where the money came from, the $82 million. Is that a budget? Where did all this suddenly come from, and now, before the break, so that we have to work in this sudden mode? Why at this point? Well, I'm sure we all know, I'm sure everyone knows the reason, but I'm asking you, where are these resources, what are the sources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u86	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator, in line with the justification of the procedated amendment presented by the Minister and by the general present here... We have learned that these funds come from the state budget This is the amount of PLN 82 million. I cannot tell you why this haste and why it is such, not another procedure for transferring these funds, although I stressed in my speech that 422 senators... Messengers. ...was in favour of this bill in the shape I was talking about. I have described the flow of these resources through local government units, as well as many of these tasks. I mentioned it, too. I'll say it again. Of course, it follows the important constitutional principle of subsidiarity. Nevertheless, as my esteemed colleague, Senator Andrzej Pajak, came up with an amendment, tabled yesterday during the committee session by a minority, saying that these funds are to be transferred through the Regional Commissioner of the State Fire Department, which raises opposition. Not just me, but most senators attending yesterday's committee. Because everyone in Poland since 1990, i.e. since the entry into force of the Act of 8 March 1990 on local government, we know that the voluntary fire department... But it also regulates other issues, other legal regulations. Self-governments work very well with volunteer firefighters and join these How important from the point of view of local communities, but also of the fire system, internal security - Yeah. - Yeah, yeah, And that's why he wakes it up. Not only doubts, but opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u88	Senator Jackowski reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u89	Thank you very much. I have a question for a minority representative, Senator Spider. Please, maybe... Can I ask you a question now? Yeah, yeah, go ahead. Please remind the High House of the history of this project, i.e. which provision concerning the financing of these tasks was in the original government submission and which came out of the Sejm. Maybe this will simplify our discussion, because in my opinion, what a minority proposes is a de facto restoration of the original sound of this project, which has come to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u90	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm gonna let myself get back to that first question you asked, because this question about these pensions... This subject was raised in the Seym. I read the report that Minister Witek said there was a band in Lower Silesia that was preparing... I quote: 'We are preparing a large bill in which we would like to appreciate volunteers, firefighters.' I don't know if there's ever gonna be such a big bill, and if that's not gonna happen... Because when it comes to these demands, I remember that even personally, even as an old man, I also made such proposals to respect these firemen. And that's like the answer to your first question. As for the second question that you have already asked directly to me, it was indeed a project from the government's submission, the Ministry submitted this project. With regard to this sum, about the money and where it came from, this was the question I think you might be able to answer the Minister's question. But I don't think a project has been reported, knowing that there's no money for it. Well, that government project that was submitted... He had the formula that was prepared, submitted, but the Seym changed... Yeah, she's entitled to that. And going back to what you were asking, it has to be said that it was originally the way it was presented, and the amendments bring it back.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u92	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will take advantage of the opportunity to address the question to my esteemed colleague, Senator Andrzej Spider. Mr Senator, how do I explain that 422 Members voted in favour of this bill, as asked by Senator Jackowski, and only 3 abstained? Am I to understand that 422 Members have made a mistake? The parliamentary majority was wrong or didn't they prepare to proceed with this bill, they didn't have enough knowledge? I'm asking questions, I'm not insinuating anything. You're welcome, Senator, to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u94	It is difficult for me to be responsible for Members here for the way it was done in the Sejm. Come on, come on, come on, come That question can be addressed to the Minister, because I suppose you, or the Minister or your superior, or perhaps the chieftain, were there. So I won't answer here. However, the fact that 420 Members voted is not an argument for us, senators, that we cannot make an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u95	You're asking Senator Jackowski again. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u96	I have a question for Senator Slugocki. Honey for my heart. Don't you think this law is so good that, for general reasons, it has been supported by 422 Members? One important part of this law is the way in which these tasks are financed. However, in support of the general principles of this law, Members could not vote against this law for one reason. Well, then it would be a little out of line with their intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u97	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to say, very honestly, as I stand before you here, that the strongest element of the law that we are discussing here is the way in which public funds are transferred for the implementation of the 4 points laid down in the Act, i.e. the transfer of funds by local government units. Yeah, it's a fantastic way, and I support him with all my heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u98	Are there any further questions for the senators of the rapporteurs? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u99	I'm talking about art. 4th Act: The Act enters into force on the day following the announcement... Me, or... Well, maybe it's up to both of you to decide. The Act shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. According to the legislative technique We all know that. This term is a minimum of 14 days. I would like you to explain why the law enters into force on the day following the date of the announcement. Are we predicting that in the month of August or September there will be some fires in Poland and therefore it is necessary to implement this law as soon as possible? What is the reason why we are giving up on the principles of legislative technology here? In my opinion, there is no comment here that this is not done according to this technique. Why was vacathio legis shortened to the day following the day of the announcement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm just like before. I'll try again to answer Mr. Jackowski's question. I think the most important thing in this bill is that the money for the guards will be at all. If they weren't there, even if there were golden ways, then... well, what then? As far as Senator Flork's question is concerned, I would like to say that that was the record in the government's submission and he was accepted. It's hard for me to answer all the questions here. I'd like you to redirect this question to the Minister, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u101	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you also for that question. I would like to say that not only the legislative practice, but also the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal are saying that the minimum period of vacathio legis should be 14 days. I think that perhaps the Minister will answer this very binding question and justify why this law enters into force on the day of its adoption. I don't see any arguments here. You asked me if anything was burning. There may be something burning, but I do not know if we will be able to carry out, at least, the procedure for the selection of proposals, which the Minister and Mr. General, together with Mr. General, set out at the committee meeting yesterday. Nevertheless, I think it is worth respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court and respecting the technique of law-making in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u103	Are there any more questions? No one's checking in. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, like to speak? Yes. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is an important law, though short, which regulates a clear, important range of issues relating to the operation of voluntary firefighters. Before I go to the point of this amendment, I'd like to say that the Voluntary Fire Department... In Poland today there are more than 16 000 units of CSR, of which, as the senator said, almost 4.5 thousand are units included in the national rescue and fire protection system. They are all very important and necessary. If it weren't for them, it would be against the diversity of threats that the State Fire and Volunteer Guards are responding to. The State Guard would probably have to be expanded, and that would have cost a great deal. Today there are 30,000 jobs in Poland in the State Fire Department, and volunteer firefighters, volunteer friends are several hundred thousand. More than 100,000 of them are those who operate in units incorporated into the national fire escape system. There's a lot of events. About every minute... In 2018 exactly every 1 minute and 2 seconds somewhere in Poland, state firefighters, professionals or volunteers left for events. That means there were over 500,000 events. During the year there were 502 thousand events in Poland. The year before, there were even more, because 520,000. You can imagine the scale of various threats, not only fires, not only traffic accidents, but also various local threats to which firefighters react. The structure of the operation is that half of the events are handled by the State Fire Department, and the other half, which is about 250,000. either the State Fire Department together with the TSOs, or the voluntary fire department itself. It often happens, very often, that the CSR units are the first on the scenes, because they are densely scattered around the country and are closest, and besides, the firefighters are very sacrificial, rushing to the places at risk as soon as they can. We see it often, driving around the country, experiencing it. Even this is sometimes said: a fireman, of course a volunteer firefighter, can be known by the fact that he is going where others are fleeing from. That's a good definition of firefighter sacrifice. All of us. And the state and society are very grateful for that. All of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, all of them, all of This is a really big deal. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland is in general an exceptional country that has the rescue and fire potential of CSR units. We will not see this anywhere in Europe on such a scale. Besides, the Polish fire department has gained, this time the state, although we do not share firefighters... From a formal point of view, these 2 lungs, as I call it, are divided by the life-saver system, but they work together, are integrated and are 2 lungs of the same organism. A year ago, as we all remember, the State Fire Department, the Polish fire department, gained great fame and extremely good reputation in Sweden when it participated in forest fires. The whole Europe admired not only professionalism, not only good organization of Polish firefighters, but also equipment and equipment, which turned out to be no worse than those with similar formations in Western Europe, the richer ones with a longer tradition of supporting such formations. Our guards really deserve a great deal of credit, and I hereby wish to express my appreciation here. I direct them both to the State Fire Department, as well as to the numerous volunteer firefighters and to all the volunteers. Now I'm moving on to an amendment to the Fire Protection Act. I would like to say that, so far, in the Fire Protection Act, in the Law that has so far been in force, in the article. 19 were defined as the tasks of volunteer firefighters, which boils down to the fact that... Wait, is this an art. 19? No, Art. 32. Excuse me. It's about funding volunteer firefighters. And this article, let me remind you, is this: The costs of equipment, maintenance, training and preparedness of fire protection units are borne by the entities forming these units. The costs of equipment, maintenance, training and preparedness of the voluntary fire department shall be borne by the municipality, subject to Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The municipality shall also be obliged to: free uniform the members of the voluntary fire department; insurance in the insurance institution of the members of the voluntary fire and youth fire team; insurance may be registered or collective non-named; and to bear the costs of periodic medical examinations referred to in Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6. And the resources for these tasks of local government units may be transferred to voluntary firefighters in the form of grants. We know very well that firefighters, voluntary firefighters, perform much more functions than mere rescue and fire protection activities themselves, the one that is today defined in the Fire Protection Act. Volunteer firefighters also perform very important functions in the field of dissemination of culture, building a local community, activities for sport, improving the efficiency of firefighters themselves, as well as other people who cooperate with firefighters, such as young people who join youth teams, and, for example, take training measures to promote the principles of first aid to victims of fire, natural disaster, communication accidents or other local threats. But these tasks are not legally defined anywhere. They are defined at most in the statutes of the TSOs, and not in all. Because, let's remind each TSO unit is an association and operates on the principle of association law. And these statutes define the tasks of CSR units as associations. But the statutory rank of these other tasks, apart from the basic ones, do not have. In addition to what has been written in the Fire Protection Act so far, this amendment seeks to include these other tasks in the Act, i.e., in short, to raise them to the statutory rank. This is the subject of the first amendment, i.e. the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a is replaced by the following: And this change in sound is that in addition to fighting fires and natural disasters or other local threats in subsequent points, from 2 to 5, these other forms of activity related to the primary activities of voluntary firefighters, other than those directly related to the fight against fires, natural disasters or local threats, are defined. That is: to organise projects to promote sport and physical culture to develop the efficiency used in rescue operations, that is point 2. Point 3: Organisation of educational and cultural projects promoting fire protection knowledge and skills. Paragraph 4: dissemination and promotion of forms of interaction between local social and economic partners in the field of fire protection. Point 5: Proposing first aid rules for victims of fire, natural disaster or other local threat. These are very important records, very important points. The tasks carried out by CSR units today are raised to the rank of statutory tasks. But it's only part of the important issue. The second part concerns the possibility of financial support for these tasks. Amendment to Article The 1st amendment of the Act states precisely how these tasks can be supported from what sources. The costs of carrying out these tasks may be borne by the state budget, the budgets of local government units and the funds transferred by the organisational units, in particular associations, foundations and insurance institutions. Not yet. I'm talking about sources of funding, including the state budget. Specific sources... I'll be right back. There were questions, so I'll answer them, but that's in a minute. Please note that these are important records, which make these tasks not to remain without financial support. Thus, the State budget will be able to transfer the funds to the defined in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a task. But they'll be able to do it. They're gonna be able to, they don't have to. Also local government units from their budgets. Today they can only do so in the case of tasks defined today in the Fire Protection Act, which I have already invoked. Another record says that this will be possible in the form of grants. This is also an important record, an important wording. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, this is a rule... Here I come to the issue of a specific dispute about amendments or the request of minorities in this case. The current rule is that State budget resources for TSOs are transferred directly to these entities, not through local government. The funds transferred by the local government are, of course, directed to these units also directly, but these are self-government centers. In other words: funds from the state budget through the state to self-government units, local government funds to self-government units... And it's like one organ of the other doesn't settle. It's not like tonight someone takes someone's money, transfers it and has power over them. The simple rule is maintained here and in the government submission it was: state budget funds are transferred and cleared by the State, i.e. The minister responsible for home affairs, as it is said... Here this road is shown, it is described that it is done through the provincial commanders, with an opinion by the county commanders, etc. It's all defined. And the government doesn't settle government money, let's call it. It is like this: the government, the budget, the state transfers and settles, and the self-government. And this is a healthy rule, this is the right rule, and I would like to ask your senators, the High Senate, to return to the vote. I strongly encourage you to do so. For the content of the government's submission. The question was, how many Members in the Sejm voted in favour of the bill. I am an MEP, and I can answer that question. The majority voted in favour of the bill, of course. Law and Justice as a parliamentary club, which is the political background of the government, but also other parliamentary clubs. Well, no one dared. ..from the opposition, too. This law is not supported. Good. But before that, there was a vote on the amendment, and the outcome of that vote was not satisfactory for the government. It wasn't, I'm just saying it. Because this principle of the transfer and settlement of funds has been amended. Well, that was the result of the vote in the Seym. What can you say? Most of the Seyms decide, but the legislative process doesn't end in the Seym, because there's still a Senate. I hope that this amendment here, this minority proposal will be a majority proposal, because it should actually be a proposal... It should be that this amendment should be voted by a majority on the Senate committee. It didn't happen, and we have a minority motion. I hope that the High Senate will show the parliamentary majority as it is in fact, and vote on the government's submission. In short, I hope that the Senate will support minority proposals, which I ask very much and what I ask for. There are three amendments within the minority proposals. If they are adopted, we will return to the presentation of the government, to the original text, the initial text, which was changed to a disadvantage by this one vote in the Sejm. I hope this case is clear, because here, I would like it very clearly... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, show a little more patience, 'cause for now, I have a vote, and I just want to say... Then you'll ask. No, no, I just... But don't interrupt me now. If you don't mind, don't interrupt me now, because... I'm not interrupting. If you interrupt me, it'll be different, but you won't. Proceed. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. There's such a good habit in the Senate... You have plenty of time at all, so I think you're gonna give it to me. The Senate is a very serious matter. A very serious matter, of course, which is why we're fixing things here... You are repairing certain things that sometimes come out of the Seym in shape, which requires a change. I would ask you very much to read the situation well and so that we can get back to the government's presentation. Then it will be considered that the purpose of the bill has been fulfilled. The question was why the bill would enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. Well, ladies and gentlemen, because we want to start supporting volunteer firefighters as soon as possible in this dimension that defines the bill. Doesn't anyone who wants to prolong the entry into force of the bill want to give the firefighters that money? Well, dear Opposite, do you want volunteer firefighters not to receive that money for a while? That's not true. Or, by questioning the matter of these measures, because such a voice fell here, which is to be handed over to voluntary firefighters, do you want volunteer firefighters not to receive it? I think we all want these measures to be directed, this year at the amount of PLN 82 million, and in the following years at altitudes, to support voluntary firefighters' activities. I understand the political statements of the opposition state, the senators, but let's skip this, please, let's give the volunteers this support. It won't be a one-year support. I'm talking about it because there's some association with the election here. There's always choices, there'll be choices next year, then there'll be choices. Right? If we were guided by the electoral calendar, we wouldn't have adopted anything, we would have waited for maybe someday there wouldn't be an election. Democracy is that there are choices, so there's no point in looking at it. 'Cause this is a government election... If we had done this a year ago, then there were local elections, now they are parliamentary, just now they were European Parliamentary, next year they will be presidential. If we were following this, we'd never give this support to our fellow volunteers. Gentlemen of the Senators, look at it this way. And the thing is, it's support to give and give quickly. It's not a one-year bill, it's not an election bill. We want to start, but we want it to continue, whoever's in charge and whoever's in charge in the future. We want to continue this in the following years, of course the size of these measures will be determined depending on the possibilities of the state budget. Thus, the state budget will support these activities of the TSOs, and local authorities will also be able to support them. Surely there will also be some synergy of these measures, because I think that many local governments will want to take advantage of this possibility and transfer their resources to the extent possible, depending on the will and condition of the local government budget. Let's create these terms, ladies and gentlemen, please. As regards the exact sources of the budget, from which parts of the budget will be financed this year, I will say that this is what Article corresponds to. Article 2 and Article 2 3 laws. Of course, these decisions will be taken by the Minister of Finance or by the President of the Council of Ministers, depending on what kind of transfers, from which sources, but after the adoption of the law, because this will form the basis for the decision of the Minister of Finance or the President of the Council of Ministers. That will be the case this year, because the Act enters into force during the financial year, so there must be provisions which empower the Minister of Finance or the President of the Council of Ministers to do this type of budgetary action. For the next year and for the following years, these measures can already be planned. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that this is an extraordinary bill because it is to enter into force the day after the announcement. These cases are known. This is not the first case of this type, not yet known in the legislative process. Well, for example, the Act amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on Crisis Management, the Act on Excise Tax and probably electroactivity entered in this manner. There's probably more like that. There are no legislative obstacles for the law to enter into force on the day following the date of its announcement, and this does not break down the principles of a democratic state. There is certainly no risk of violating any important democratic principles here, and this is supported by an important social interest. The point is to give support to the CSR units as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you in this context that... I was talking about the fact that budget resources are transferred directly to individuals, just as local government. I would also like to remind you how this works as part of good cooperation, about the creation of co-financing mechanisms for important forms of support for CSR units. This is the case, for example, with the purchase of fire-fighting cars. For some time now, and for a second year, we've been doing it in a centralized system. All the resources that can be made available from different sources for this purpose are made up of financial editing, which gives the possibility to purchase more cars. This year we buy about 480 cars for CSR units as part of this assembly. There's never been a shopping in this dimension. This is a record, absolutely record year, and last year seemed record when these cars were about 380. There's more this year. Why? It is precisely because financial resources have been accumulated from different sources. These are both budgetary and local resources. From the Environmental Fund This is the budget of a specific specific fund. We have over PLN 100 million this year. The resources available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are about PLN 100 million, exactly PLN 96 million. Here are funds from grants to KSRG and grants to non-KSRG units and insurance funds. This is also possible because we have changed the rules of the flow of funds and have one body, the Chief of the State Fire Service, and at the same time the Head of Civil Defence of the Country. It was questioned in the Seym by the opposition, and it works great. This is a solution that brings very good results and is increasingly praised by firefighters themselves and CSR units. And that's the answer to the opposition's voices. Local government funds in this financial composition are about PLN 130 million. With important projects, funds from various sources can be installed. More equipment can be purchased thanks to increased possibilities. It has been so, Ladies and gentlemen, that when individuals applied for funds for regional environmental funds, a certain amount of local government funds, sometimes own resources of the individual, funds of the State Forests, sponsors and the regional fund were placed. And we still didn't have enough money to buy a car. It could not be bought, it was impossible due to limited resources. When we centralized it and, to put it this way, we saw it in its entirety, we could make some transfers and these impossible purchases became possible. This is a very important process. We don't like centralization, we don't like centralization. But there are good aspects to centralization. And that's the aspect. What is local, what is regional, what is decentralised, is decentralised, but what should be coordinated and therefore centralised... There's nothing to be afraid of, running away from, and somehow misjudged. Here's an example of very good results that come from what I'm talking about. I would like to say once again, ladies and gentlemen, that I am convinced that it is not rational for the government to have government resources and to settle them. Self-government has the possibility The bill gives it to him. Support firefighters with their own resources. The government doesn't have anything against them. These are self-government resources. There is only one rule: all this in the case of both the government and the local government must be done in accordance with the Public Finance Act, because it regulates the way in which grants are transferred and cleared. It's clear that everyone has to stick to it, everyone has to stick to it. I'm just finishing my speech. I apologize for the fact that it took some time, but I think I explained the essence of things and the purpose of the bill, which is to extend the statutory tasks, in other words, to raise to the rank of the law, to write down in it the tasks practically carried out by the voluntary fire department, and to present to you the principles of financing. I think it is clear that, at the moment, it should be clear why we want to restore the text of the government's submission. I represent the government, so it's like I can't offer anything else. But I do it with full conviction, because this is a really readable system, this is a system that has been well thought out. He has already been tested for other activities and financial support. Take, for example, Oh, that's important. The Justice Fund. He did indeed last year with the amount of over PLN 100 million supported CSR units throughout the country. Those measures were, on the same basis, directed to the TSO's units. Ladies and gentlemen, almost all individuals have benefited, rarely in the country that has not benefited from it, a vast majority have benefited. And this was carried out very efficiently, from the resources at the disposal of the Minister of Justice. It was a very important financial injection, important support. We are grateful to the Minister of Justice for taking into account, in such a large amount, the possibility of supporting the CSR units with this money. And it all worked, works and has good results. Ladies and gentlemen, our CSR units are getting better and better, but they require further support both in the sphere of primary activity and in the sphere of this activity, which they are really carrying out alongside the main one, related to fire safety and the fire-fighting system. Finally, I would like to mention that the Government of Law and Justice supports these individuals more from the state budget than it had done before. The first amendment to the budget has already been introduced in 2016, this was an amendment to the budget prepared by the PO-PSL government. Already then by PLN 3.5 million we increased subsidies for CSR units. In the following years, we have increased them, so that within 3 years, in 2018 and in 2019 there is a similar financing dimension, these measures have increased by 30.4%. Yeah, about 30.4%. in 2018 as compared to 2015. It matters. Plus, the other actions I've told you about, and those from the Justice Fund, and those related to financial assembly from different sources, have really good results. Volunteer firefighters are getting better and better. They receive new equipment, we also hand them the equipment used, still efficient, good, from the State Fire Department on the occasion of purchasing new equipment for the State Fire Department. So all of this is carried out systematically, with really great appreciation for the State Fire Service and for volunteer firefighters. Let me repeat: these are two lungs of the same organism. We can't even think about all this separately, we need to think together and take into account needs and professional guards, and volunteer guards. When you see great value in them, thank you once again to all your fellow volunteers. I am convinced that, after the bill has been passed, the voluntary guards will receive further support this year, in the years to come, and we will therefore be increasingly safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u105	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report from a place of no longer than a minute of questioning... Me? ...to the representative of the government related to this item on the agenda, but before that, Senator Sługocki asked for a corrigendum. There you go. What is it about?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I wanted to inform you that when I raise my hand, it's not a sign that I want to interrupt you, I just want to ask you a question. It's a signal to the secretary, the senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u107	Sure thing. Thank you. I didn't know that senate routine. I'm sorry. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would have discussed the subject I was asking Senator Spider and Senator Slugock. In this context, Mr Spider's attention to Minister Witek's declaration on the work of the Sejm committee was valuable. I am thinking, above all, of the proposed solution to some particular inclusion in the pension system of those volunteer firefighters who voluntarily perform their tasks for a certain number of years, i.e. that this congratulation is somehow, I would say, measurable. Please tell us whether such a solution is considered during the discussion in the government forum. Is the government thinking about a system solution in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u109	Minister, maybe we should wait a minute. There are two more questions, we'll combine them, and maybe they'll be shared... Senator Slugocki and Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about procedures. We assume that the bill will be passed by the end of this week. When are you planning to announce the first competitions? How long will the selection procedure continue, verification? And when is it possible to sign the first agreements with the volunteer firefighters to carry out these tasks within those four priorities that you were kind to define? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u111	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course I would disagree with what you said about the deadlines that the principles of legislative technique clearly state that vacathio legis is a minimum of 14 days. I keep maintaining that what you said doesn't have a good time... But there's definitely so much time between one election and the other that it doesn't take three months before the election to get out with a bill like this and a vacathio legis to make it... But it's just a remark, by the way. Minister, my question is so... What I'm saying is, I want you to dispel my doubts. We have the Fire Protection Act, there's an art. 33, which says that the state budget And I asked you this, it's about the budget coming from the state budget. It shall contribute to the costs of operation of the fire protection units referred to in Article. 15 points Two, six and eight, and there are listed among others. voluntary firefighters, i.e. here everything is okay, and then, decimally, it says: "If these units operate within the national emergency and fire-fighting system." I don't have to tell you what units are in the national fire escape system. It's the voivodship and county j.r.g.. What else is there? You can replace the factory guards... And there's about 4,000 volunteer firefighters out there. So it says here, after the decimal, that this is about the units that are in the national fire escape system. Now you've added an article. 33a 'cause that was an art. 33 and it states that the costs of carrying out the tasks referred to in Article. 19... that's what you quoted, which means they were added... It was about culture, etc., etc. So these costs can be covered by the state budget, and you're talking about it, and you're talking about the budgets of the local government units that they can also... And that's where it's all listed. So, according to this, these costs can also be covered by the state budget. But in the article. 33 We have a clear record that these must be the units that are in the national fire escape system, which is not the 16,000, but the 4,000 guards. Hence my question: does the law apply to all TSOs, or only to those in the national emergency and fire alarm system?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u113	Please, we have a bunch of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is asking for an allowance, a possible pension allowance for firefighters' friends. The case is well known to all, it has a story. If you'd asked me that when I was a member of the opposition, I would have asked you eight years, but because you're not a member of the opposition... And four years... ...or the Senator of the opposition, only the Law and Justice, that's not what I'm gonna ask. But you know the problem is difficult. The problem is constitutionally difficult, because these guards are associations, and in Poland there are very many associations operating in public space, so here is one constitutional problem. And the second problem, more specifically, would already be about what would be the criteria for granting this supplement. But all of this, of course, can be considered under the conditions that can be fulfilled, both constitutional and financial. However, this should certainly be the subject of attention. I do not want to say or simply declare something at the moment, because I do not yet know what scope this new large law will cover, which is to support the CSR units. I am sure that the discussion on this subject will take place in the preparation of this project, but it is difficult to judge what it will end with. It is certain that, due to the role and rank of voluntary fire-fighting units in the rescue and fire-fighting system and beyond, more broadly, more strongly, in the State's security system, it is worth to regulate certain issues in the laws, just as they are not regulated today, and as we regulate even this passage in today's amendment, in the one we are discussing today. It can be said that this is important, but a small amendment of the law on one issue, i.e. other very important roles of CSR units in addition to this basic role. But it is a question of defining, inventorying, of course we will talk to the fire community about all these issues, problems that would require regulatory regulation, in order to strengthen these units of TSOs, somehow more clearly embedded in the statutory system. These will be insurance issues, for example, for example, we are discussing on this issue, issues related to what should be the support for firefighters who are suffering losses that put their health at risk and sometimes their lives at risk. Today it's different when it comes to state guards and volunteer guards, an example is the road to action, because in the action itself it's regulated, but the road to the event... It's the first example on the shore, but it's important. I'm calling him in to show him what's going on. I'm probably repeating the discussion about the issue of support, the form of the pension allowance we won't avoid, and we won't want to avoid it, but how to solve it, that I don't know today, I don't want to declare anything because it's too early. But notice, at least, a case like the one that's coming in today. After all, each of us knows how many different tasks the CSR units perform, and this is written only in the statutes or is not there, because it is not written in all statutes. So that this large bill, which was announced by Minister Elizabeth Witek, is certainly a matter for the future parliamentary term. It can't be done quickly, but we're working on it. At the moment, the preliminary work of this team, which the Minister mentioned, is underway. We'll inventory the problems that need to be regulated. I also ask you and your senators to tell us from your experience what else in this bill besides what we propose should be found. Besides, there will be consultations and working ones, let's call it, before preparing the project, and then the ones that are always subjected to the government project. So that's ahead of us. I think this is important. This announcement to the firefighters is important because they know, they feel that this is a sphere that would require greater support from the state. We want to prepare this support. As for the procedures and when what will happen, Senator, after the bill has been introduced, I will say yes. We are, of course, already prepared to appear almost immediately, in the first days after the announcement of the law with information to the CSR units, with a simple form, with a very simple form His project is prepared, but at the moment it is a working document, because there is no law yet In order to ensure that the CSR units without any difficulty... They don't have administration, they don't have offices, they don't have administrative services. Besides, the State Fire Department has very modest administrative services, this is a service in which there are very few posts dedicated to administrative services, very cost-effective service, but at the moment we are talking about TSOs. So just so the units don't have any problems... I don't think they're gonna have any problems reporting the purpose of the bill, written down in these four points, from point 2 to point 5, and applying for a grant. I reply immediately that, of course, all the units will be able to apply for these funds, not only those from the national emergency and emergency systems, because this provision, which you quoted from Senator Florek, concerns specific tasks and the participation of the state in these tasks, in financing tasks for the national emergency and emergency systems. But you know very well. I assume you know very well. Not only do individuals from the national rescue and fire-fighting system receive subsidies from the budget today, but also, and this is another amount, in another budget statement, so to speak, recognised, units from outside the national rescue and fire-fighting system. This system, by the way, because you're a little, I'm sorry, I don't want to touch you, he mixed up these definitions. The national fire-fighting system shall include those TSOs that meet certain criteria. And it's not like that. so that all the works units are to be in this system or any other type of entity, only those that meet certain criteria concerning their potential and mobility, as well as territorial deployment, because after all, the chief will not include in the national system, and therefore take responsibility for financing these important tasks, units in such a way that in one place they will be densely distributed and in other places few will be included. It must also be territorially distributed in a rational way. This also depends on the number of events, the number of trips, and the potential of these individuals. The 14-day deadline, you're back to that, Mr. Senator... I've already explained that. Well, I don't think there's any point in talking about it anymore, because there are known cases. I'm gonna say it again. That laws enter into force the day after the announcement, the day after the announcement. This bill because the social interest demands it, because we want to come as soon as possible to help finance these tasks which the voluntary guards are still carrying out... The social interest is ordering us to write it down, not delay it, not delay it, so to speak, that mechanism that would enter into force later. Why? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] One more question. I'd like to ask when they'll be signed... Thank you. Here you go, next question... That's short. We'll set the reporting dates. It is difficult to say precisely at the moment, but it will certainly be in a short time due to the simple form of reporting these tasks. This system is being rehearsed, so to speak, with the transfer and settlement of funds from the Justice Fund, for example. It worked very well. Besides, this system was enshrined in the agreement between the Minister of Justice and the Chief of the State Fire Department. There's a difference here. Only such a difference can be said That the Minister responsible for Home Affairs will fulfil this role because it is the means or will be the means that will remain at the disposal of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Thus, it may be even closer that it will be such a natural, daily cooperation and support of this ministry, this department for CSR units. That resort doesn't have these tasks every day, and he's done a great job of doing it, with our support and cooperation, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u115	Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I want to go back to I'm here, across the street from the money. Colleagues from the opposition fear that the transfer of this competence into the hands of the State Fire Department will somehow be deprived of the guards or that it will limit them in action that the government will not pass on these funds. Perhaps the Minister in his department has other information, but in my territory these guards, and the State Fire Department, and the voluntary fire department, act hand in hand, act very jointly. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you may have any complaints from other areas about the fact that the TSOs and PSPs are inconvenient, they are conflicted. Maybe that's why the opposition colleagues are worried about such records. 'Cause in my territory, that kind of record is gonna work very well. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u117	Then, Minister, we'll add two questions. Senator Libicki and then Senator Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u118	Minister, my question is as follows. I'd like to return to the part of your speech today. You said something like that, that you want to return to this original way of separating these funds, that is, by county fire department because you think that these are government resources, and so you should be distributed by, so to speak, those services that are directly subject to the government. Did I get that right? And if I didn't, I'd ask you to explain that part of my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u119	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I cannot agree that if the funds are transferred from the state budget, they should be accounted for by the State. Well, both of you... And, little of that, I think we all know in this Chamber that a number of tasks commissioned by the government are carried out by the local government and that they are implemented according to the purpose of these funds, with success for the whole community, for the Polish state. Yeah, not much, just add that, for example, the structure of the redistribution of money... But the question, Mr. Senator... There, there will be a question, Mr. Marshal. Give me a chance. Declarations later. No, it's not a statement, Mr. Marshal. Proceed. Thank you very much. I was talking about redistributing European money, because it's public money, too. The managing and paying body is the local government, although these measures are de facto derived from the state budget. And, little of that, nearly 26% of the public finance sector is the money of local government units. So I don't think it's right, the more that And that raises the question, Minister. That the municipalities were required to cover the costs of equipment, maintenance, training and preparedness. That's what Art says. 32 Fire Protection Act. And in this context, I think it would be good to build some complementarity with the actions we are discussing. In your opinion, sir. And maybe that's what happened. Well, I'm sorry, I'm sure that's what you're saying, but in my opinion, this system that was at this stage of the process in this bill is excellent, so I'm surprised... I still can't hear the question, Senator. I wonder why you are so stubbornly trying to push local government units out of the redistribution of money into a wide-ranging fire protection system, including those four elements that you have been polite to define many times today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u121	Please, Minister, three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u122	Mr. Senator, we don't want to push anyone. On the contrary, we invite local authorities to continue their cooperation. She really, when it comes to supporting CSR units, she's great, no matter what the options are, because everyone needs security the same way. Here politics really goes far when it comes to people's safety. Firefighters don't ask who's injured by rushing to the fire. They don't ask if anyone is a member or sympathizer of the Platform or the Law and Justice, it really doesn't matter. The same is true when it comes to purchasing equipment. We are driven by needs, not political views. We do not even know these views. Here, this policy has absolutely no meaning. The police, as well as the fire department, are supposed to ensure security for everyone, regardless of who thinks what, because we are all equal citizens of the Republic of Poland and we all need security. I am actually protesting such a statement that we want to push local governments out of this system. No, local governments finance voluntary guards in their own part, and in this law they also receive their path, because we create opportunities to finance those tasks which the government wants to partially finance, including by local governments. Only that the government funds we want to account for as government administration, and the local government should account for the local government administration. You say there are other solutions. Of course there are other solutions. After all, we know very well that the resources available to the local government come from participation in taxes. Right? So it's pretty obvious. And there are also tasks commissioned by the government to perform by local governments and local authorities receive appropriate amounts for this. Well, that's the way the 500+ family works. Right? And now there's a system that's slowly coming in for the Clean Air programme. Self-governments are also invited here to participate. On a slightly different basis, but they will also have a share in this. So there are different solutions, and here we create opportunities for you and for you. In the sense of: government And to local governments that can support these individuals, just as they do today. It's just... And that's where I come right up to Senator Libicki's question. I was talking about a return to the original government presentation, not to the original system - although such a system as in the case of TSOs is known today in other areas. As far as subsidies to TSOs are concerned, it is so today that budget resources are directed directly to TSOs, and local government − directly by local authorities to these units. And there are such good examples that I mentioned earlier, the interaction of both these entities and other entities, such as the national environmental fund or the voivodship funds, such as: we accumulate these funds, we buy more equipment, because together we can more, there are more financial opportunities. So that we just want to go back to the original government presentation, to the starting text, which was amended by the amendment adopted in the Sejm. We want to go back to what the government has put forward. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators to support this amendment, or at least I ask the Senate to do so, but we will be very pleased with each vote in favour, regardless of which part of the room it falls from. That's it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Majer asked about the interaction of CSR and PSP. You asked me a question, but you should ask the opposition, because I can't answer for the opposition, I'm a law and justice politician, and I don't know any cases like this between the State Fire Department and the volunteer guards. If they were broken, then high, at the level of the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland, because he defended the funds he received, which he distributed. But that's all behind us. The debate is over. quite a long time ago. In this term of office of the Sejm we have a coherent system, there is no longer this dualism, that also the chief commander, and the President or the General Board of the Association of Volunteer Guards of the Republic of Poland transfers funds. This is all consistent and firefighters praise it. In the Seym we heard some terrible accusations that there would be a destruction of CSR units. We have not destroyed, on the contrary, we have built them up very much, we have strengthened them very much, we are increasing their potential. One of the Members of the opposition said that even the carat did not destroy the CSR units and that the Government of Law and Justice and Minister Zieliński would destroy them. Somehow, the CSR units are growing, they have support, and they're getting better. Those measures... I recall the effects of car purchases, but you can also talk about investments, you can talk about training, about the efficiency of CSR units and cooperation with the State Fire Department. This shows that it is really getting better and that this is also demonstrated by the increase in budget resources per TSO every year. So this new system, I guess, no one who thinks rationally today is questioning it. The political debate has gone over, and we've got it over with. Let's not go back to it because it doesn't make sense. This really is a good system, and it was already designed for the first rule of law and justice in 2007. Then we didn't have time to bring him in, we brought him in now. Very good. So that the cooperation between PSPs and TSOs is excellent. With regard to this procedure, which follows from the Act, the fact of good cooperation will certainly favour the implementation of these tasks, the speed of grant award and the clearance of grants, and will certainly promote the definition and identification of important tasks that should be financed from these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u123	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u124	Thank you very much. I'll be more specific. I understand that you want to return to the original government presentation, but basically the Minister, in answer to Senator Slugock, said that. I mean, you praised the fact that a certain duality has been eliminated and that at the moment it is not so that these resources flow from and from the TSOs, and from the commander of the State Fire Department. And I understand that if you want to return to the original government presentation, you also want to eliminate this dualism. I mean, you want this money to flow through the State Fire Department, not through the government. Is that what I'm saying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u125	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u126	Thank you very much. Minister, I think that... well, I don't know what kind of phrase to use so as not to overshadow what I'm trying to say, and in no way to offend you... Don't worry. I think the exclusion would be a good word. The exclusion of volunteer firefighters from the system - we discussed this at least two years ago - the allocation of insurance funds or the non-inclusion of firefighters in the process of redistribution of money, while through local government units it would be easy to build this complementarity, it is a big mistake in my view. It is also the destruction of the achievements of 30 years of the rule of law, a civil state where different types of entities are treated in an individual way, i.e. they are encouraged to participate in the decision-making process, in a sense self-determination. And I think that centralizing decisions in this process is a big mistake. That's been said before. I'd like to know your intentions. Why do you not want to empower the community of firefighters and local government units so badly? We both know very well, Minister, that the relationship between volunteer firefighters and local government units in the field is excellent, very good. I do not know the case in which there would be a conflict between Polish communes and firefighters. But there will be statements. Will there be a question? That's the question. There was a question, Senator. Listen, don't review. I'm listening. After two, three minutes... Please don't review my comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u127	Senators! Allow me to continue this. The senator finishes the question. Thank you very much. You've got one minute. Go ahead. I'm done, Mr. Marshal. Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u128	Thank you. Senator, don't exaggerate. You're making up a fake problem. Yes, sir. Nobody says there's bad cooperation between local governments and CSR units. Self-governments support voluntary guards, and they support them widely, willingly, as far as they can. No one's denying them that. But the CSR units also support the government, the state, the budget. And that involves more opportunities to build up the potential of these individuals. With all due respect to local governments, I have been a local governmentman for many years, and I'm coming from local government. Let me put it this way: you cannot identify a civil state solely with a local government. This is an important part of the civil state, very important but not the only one. O.S.P. units... I have to protest here. You say we want to deprive them of, I don't know, subjectivity, decision-making. No, because that's what they're saying. They will be the ones who will request it, and they will ask it directly. It's just that the one that I'm going to say is the technical channel is fast. The PSP structures are available here as assistance as support. And who makes the decision? O.S.P.? Minister. Exactly. Minister. State resources, the budget will be settled by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. I don't see any reason to question that. I'm not going to, none of us are going to, you know, step into a decision about self-government resources. The self-government shall have them in accordance with the laws and regulations of its own discretion. But these are two completely different things. I don't see any collision here, I don't see any reason for you or anyone else to question the essence of a civil state, recognition for local governments or for CSR units and firefighters. On the contrary, this is proof of that recognition. I don't understand... I mean, I understand, of course, I'm not naive, but in the verbal sphere, I don't understand why you insist that budget money is necessarily meant to transfer and settle government. I understand that you want to deprive the government of this, politically speaking, I understand very well. But it does not withstand such rational criticism, criticism from the point of view of the fact that those who decide to grant funds have the right to pass them on and to settle them, as government like government, as self-government as government. Right? There's no question about that, and I don't know what one system would be better than another. They're equally entitled, both. Insurance. Mr. Senator brought up this thread. It's not true. 'Cause between the lines, that's what it sounded like. It is therefore appropriate to require that the CSR units do not receive funds under this heading. I didn't say that. I'm sorry. That's how I realized it, that less or worse... I didn't say that. I want to tell you very clearly that the principle has been maintained: 50% the revenues are received by the TSOs as they were, and 50% He will receive the State Fire Department. I was talking about making decisions, Minister. I'm so sorry. Let me... Before that, the decision was taken by the Chief Executive Board of the Association of Volunteer Guards of the Republic of Poland. Sometimes the chief didn't know where the money was going. There's been duplication of funding, and even reports from the board of directors didn't want to pass it on to you, tell you where and where that money was headed. Or else there was no funding either from one place or from another, because one entity did not know about the other. Well, Mr. Senator, it was a pathological situation. She's been wiped out. Right now, it's all in one place and it's really working. Don't question that, or the firemen won't even support it anymore. There's no question about that. And the proportions are the same, 50%. And 50%. Not much, the Chief Chief has yet the opportunity to increase the resources for the CSR units. And, as far as I know, he did it. So that the volunteer firefighters did not lose on it, on the contrary, they maintained what was going on and still have a chance of increased funding. And it's all rationally shared. Well, rationally, because you can see everything better from this one place when you know about the whole system. And the chief said at committee meetings, at least in the Sejm, that he repeatedly requested reports and did not receive these reports. Mr. Senator, we have different dualities. The Lord speaks of a different duality than the one we spoke of before. Here's the thing. I'm gonna say it again. In such a way, the government or government administration shall provide grants and grants. And now we have different sources of this budget funding. Well, for example, the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of the Interior, the Chief of the State Fire Service, last year the Minister of Justice... These are different budget support paths. And they're not conflicted with each other, on the contrary, they create synergies, they give greater results that I've already talked about. And that's not what anybody's gonna put up with. That's the way it's supposed to be. But see that here is also the case that each entity responsible for these funds directs them according to its decisions, according to criteria, of course clearly defined, previously stated, established, and settles them. But here I would ask that we no longer develop without these threads, because, I think, they are obvious. In order for the system to work quickly, we would like to ask the High Senate to do so on behalf of the government once again here, at the end, to do so. In order to accept minority amendments, minority proposals, it restored the original form of the government's submission to the Sejm. The Sejm, apart from the mentioned one change, accepted them. But here we want these 3 amendments, which I fully support, to restore this condition to the original government proposal. And then we will quickly run all the other procedures, and the sources of funding will be indicated, as set out in the article. 2 and Article 2 3 of this amendment to the law, and the volunteer firefighters will be able to benefit from these grants. I'm sure each of your senators will hear in the field that this is good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u129	Thank you, Minister. The list of questions has been exhausted. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Libicki will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will start with an anecdote, an example that will be a nice example for the senators and politicians of Law and Justice. Last Saturday I was at a carnival in my constituency, in a village that has 608 inhabitants. I spent an hour and a half at this festival. We've had different conversations, including politics. And I said there that very many elements of the political narrative of Law and Justice to these people, participants of this festival, were found. I will not hide that a large part of this time has been devoted to presenting the opposite sentence and trying to change this narrative a little bit, but if one element of all that the Law and Justice are doing has aroused the concerns of those gathered at the festival, then they were alarmed by a trend that has appeared here and which we have been observing for 4 years, namely the trend of limiting the powers of local government and certain centralization drives. I therefore allowed myself to ask the Minister about this dualism, as the Minister called it, in financing voluntary firefighters, once funded by the TSOs, and now the Board of Directors of the TSOs and by the State Fire Department and the Minister of Home Affairs, because the Minister This is how I identify these answers here, and thinks that who gives money should grant them, consider applications and settle them. Well, I have some doubt. If we were to accept such a solution for the whole functioning of the state, in fact, in a moment's time, we could say that the education subsidy that goes into the municipalities is also government money, so it is the government administration, not the government, that should decide how this education subsidy should be spent, accounted for, etc., etc. If we came to this conclusion as part of the continuation of this process, it would be de facto in my opinion disassembling the idea of local government in Poland. And that is what the participants of this festival at my Saturday meeting were afraid of, sharing very many elements of what the Law and Justice are talking about in other areas of social life, I must say honestly. In my opinion, here too, we are dealing with, so to speak, a centralization trend and with this limitation of the powers of local government. The Minister says no. But I'm gonna let myself stay with my opinion. I would therefore like to make it very clear: I am not making any proposal because this proposal is already a proposal from the committee to maintain this law which has come to us, to the Senate, when it comes to funding the voluntary fire department, to keep it in the form that it has come to us, to the Senate, and not to change anything in it that would lead to it leaving in a form consistent with the original Government submission, which the Minister has called for. In short, I support the proposal for a law without amendments, because I am convinced that this will benefit not only local authorities, which are closely connected with voluntary firefighters, but also the voluntary firefighters themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u131	Senator Jackowski's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! I'm so glad we're working on this bill. She's very needed. I say this as a senator of the Ciechanian subregion, the northern Mazowsze, where voluntary firefighters, bridesmaids and bridesmaids play a very important role not only in the field of fire safety, in combating all crises, but also in the cultural dimension. There is no patriotic or police ceremony, Minister. Last time we had police holidays in Przysnysz, in Mława, in Ciechanów So that the fire orchestra, or the firefighter's mates, did not participate in these celebrations, there was no such situation. I do not mention religious celebrations, patriotic celebrations, important festival events, cultural activities. In all these dimensions, bridesmaids and bridesmaids from voluntary firefighters take an extremely active part. I'll tell you more. I don't know the mayor or the president who doesn't care about the development of voluntary firefighters, especially as regards this cultural aspect, other than the one related to security, and for example. The volunteer fire department had an orchestra or such activities. I'm not talking about the fact that there's a center of cultural life in the rural environment, that's the way it is, and that's the way it's gonna be. That is why this law, which somehow sanctions these additional roles performed by voluntary firefighters, is, of course, desirable. Imagine that. In the Ciechanov district, which has about 90,000 inhabitants, there are 1.5 thousand bridesmaids and friends of firefighters' volunteers. And so I could, speaking of the 5 counties of my constituency in northern Mazowsze, so Mława, Przasnysz, Płońska, Żuromina, also talk about how huge the role of volunteer firefighters is. Please also note that the fire department traditionally enjoys the greatest social trust, the largest of all uniformed services, of all institutions, you can say, state. This is significant, this is recognition for achievements, for the work of bridesmaids and firefighters, but also for professional firefighters, the State Fire Department, because these two systems are coupled together, as the Minister said, these are two lungs of the same social organism and both of these structures are established for society, for the state precisely through the profile of their activities. It is worth noting that the traditional scope of operation of the fire department is changing. Firefights, and firefighters were once referred to as firefighters, have a minimum share in all the interventions that bridesmaids and bridesmaids make. There is a number of tragic road events in my constituency, unfortunately not yet modernised in the section from Płońska to Napierek. The first ones who come to such events save lives are the bridesmaids and firefighters who are involved in the national system, the national rescue system. I would like to express my appreciation here in the presence of Minister Zieliński, Chief General Suski, for the professional firefighters, but also for the bridesmaids and bridesmaids of volunteer firefighters. I would like to say that I remember before we did an amendment of the bill and some of the resources that were earmarked for voluntary firefighters remained with the chief. What were the protests, how the tension was. It has been 2 years and, as Minister Zieliński said, it has turned out that the system of connected vessels, the broader perspective and the ability to dispose of these means allow for efficient, even more efficient use of these resources and ensure that our firefighters have the appropriate equipment, adequate infrastructure in the form of buildings and equipment. High Izbo, I support this law in its entirety, along with this amendment that was prepared by the senators of the committee and presented in the form of a minority proposal. I hope that this bill will not only increase the prestige of the guards, but above all it will be a law for the good of society. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. And now Senator Piotr Florek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u134	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The PiS government is centralizing everything that's possible. He wants control, he wants to control everything and everyone, and of course he has that possibility, because the money is this element... Indeed, if it is affected by the allocation, it can also be used at certain moments, such as an upcoming election campaign. And as a result, there is no doubt to me that the introduction of this law right now... It's been four years. Well, maybe it's been possible for the last eight years, but it's been possible for the last four years too, and the PiS government is implementing this bill right now, right now. Volunteer firefighters, as we all know, it's tradition. They're from... I don't know, I think they were made in a thousand eight hundred sixty some year. First, they were volunteer fire guards, then they were transformed, and so on. It's all tradition, it's participation in various celebrations, etc. But what is also important is what the Minister mentioned, i.e. a national fire protection system. This is very important, but we are praised in Europe. The national fire-fighting system, as I recall, was introduced in 1995 and this is an example of a good interaction between the State Fire Department and the voluntary fire department. This system, of course, as the Minister said, is that individuals are involved and they have to meet certain criteria. It is known that there are voivodship fire department commands, county commands, j.r.g. Also the works I was talking about, although of course not all, to which the Minister pointed out And there are volunteer firefighters. And there's, as I recall, almost 4,500 of these units right now. And now the fundamental question arises in the case of this law: who is to distribute money? Is the minister, or, as this amendment says, the local government? The excessive burden on central authorities with specific tasks that can be carried out at local level does not increase the efficiency of the State's activities at all. On the contrary, it often prevents national competences from being exercised. In this sense, excessive centralisation is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. Therefore, it is appropriate that the allocation of funds to TSOs should take place in the immediate environment for them, i.e. through municipal authorities, which are best aware of the needs of TSOs operating on their territory. In addition, this is directly linked to the tasks of the local government itself. According to Art. Paragraph 7 1 point 14 of the Municipal Government Act includes public policy issues, citizens' safety, fire and flood protection, including the equipment and maintenance of municipal flood warehouses. And now let's look at it so that we have over 16,000 volunteer firefighters that we have 4,000 volunteer firefighters in this most important national system. These are the units that are the first to be ready to take action. If we take the $82 million that's gonna be spent out there somewhere in the budget... It is the budget money and my doubts about the distribution of these funds that the Minister has not resolved. How do we divide it into 16,000 units? 'Cause that's what I'm saying. This 82 million will actually amount to an average of about 5 000 per TSO unit. And therefore this information that it's going to be an average of 5,000... This would indeed agree, although it will certainly not be distributed equally, but in different ways. After all, there are smaller and larger units, so I can't imagine it being divided evenly. And that it won't be equal... Well, we know who's gonna decide that eventually. And the fact that volunteer firefighters are organizing these projects as a result of an amendment to the bill... They've already organized it, just like we talked about. This concerned the promotion of sport, physical culture, education, culture, etc. It was already... It was written in the bill to actually make these tasks articulate. And now the question remains where to apply, since the bill that passed through the Sejm... We all know what it looks like. But finally, I would like to draw further attention to this aspect, that as far as local governments are concerned, these local governments should have as much resources at their disposal as possible to distribute, and these resources are being taken away from them. The PIT Act has already been processed here, and we know what this situation will look like, how many of these redundancies are there. In a moment, people up to the age of twenty-six will not pay at all, and therefore, of course, local governments will again be deprived of a certain pool of funds. And that's why it would be good for them, where possible, to decide how to distribute these funds. And as for what it looks like, when the funds are centrally divided, I'm going to quote for the second time from this tribune what happened when it comes to the road fund, about the old schetiny, as we said. Today it is a programme of construction of municipal and district roads. What happened when you changed the bill and wrote down in the bill that you had the final vote of the Prime Minister? Well, what happened? Six billion dollars on the roads... And what happened? Well, ladies and gentlemen, the letters drawn up by the voivodships in each voivodship were sent to the Prime Minister for signature. And what did the Prime Minister do? My county, which is the largest in Poland Or second in size, depending on whether we're talking about the population or about the area. The district of Poznań, which always, in all years, received... Because it's a very big county that has a lot of tasks and has always been listed in the top I did, and I did now. What happened? The Prime Minister has removed this county from the list. On what basis? Well, you've written down in the bill that he can do whatever he wants. After being careful, he can do what he wants. Therefore, centralising such tasks while the local government is closest and knows what these funds are spent on. They are browsed there several times... And the fact that the proposals will influence, in line with this government proposal, by the commanders of the Regional State Fire Service, that the minister will approve this... Well, imagine that. Consider, for example, the fact that there are 16,000 volunteer firefighters. And what effect will the Minister have on that? He's gonna analyze what it's like for each TSO? I suspect there will also be stories here that have occurred in the case of the allocation of money to the road fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u135	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot of words have been said here. I, of course, absolutely subscribe to those words that just fell from Senator Flork's mouth. The constitutional principle of subsidiarity is being violated in many, many cases. There's even a special report I'm not going to talk about today. There will be time for summaries of a number of laws in which the central authority takes over the powers of the authorities of the local government, either restricts them in their independence, or takes over their powers. This is divided into individual, so to speak, types of violations. And that's another bill like that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment... on one thought that comes to mind in connection with the second and third positions on our agenda today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate has always been associated with the House of Positive Reflection, associated with the improvement of the law, with the rescue of laws after the seyms, with pro-Citizenism and pro-social action. I ask you, in the case of these 2 laws, the Act on Supplementary witnessing for persons unable to exist independently and the Act which we are now debating, the Act on the amendment of the Fire Protection Act, we have a curiosity situation. The Senate is to be this House, it is to be this forum, it is to be the institution that makes the legal situation of citizens, citizens with disabilities worse, introducing or eliminating this financial limit, and I am not going to develop it, we all know what this is about. Or by modifying it, but, of course, to the detriment of it. And now for another bill. The Sejm almost unanimously adopts one and the other law, and suddenly the Senate, which I say once again was famous for amending the law, gives the signal that there is some complete destruction going on here directed against citizens. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation of the Senate? I ask why these laws, both of them, were passed by votes in the Sejm and what happened suddenly. I ask the Minister: what suddenly happened in the case of this bill, Minister, that you are doing a volt and return And that's what your co-worker said at the committee meeting, and you also loyally emphasized it in response to the questions. The government's authority to submit to the government, which is restrictive, so to speak? After all, he was at a committee meeting, among others. President of the Board of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards, Prime Minister Pawlak, and he made it clear that he was absolutely against it. And he gave examples, perhaps these examples have already fallen or are yet to fall. The argument that because it is government money, it must be by the government agenda, i.e. the representative of the district fire chief, settled or distributed, is completely pointless. Because 500+ how is it distributed? By self-government. And the budget grant? These were the examples. So giving these examples that you've been talking about is completely absurd. That doesn't convince me at all. I ask, then, what happened that the Senate is supposed to give the public a signal that it is a chamber of destruction that is a chamber that restricts civil rights, which destroys the wonderful laws that came from the Sejm, simply degrades them. What happened? In what role do we, ladies and gentlemen, as senators, perform here? What role do you play? Are we on this case? I ask you to reflect deeply on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u137	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This law, the procedated law, shows in an extremely bright way 2 visions, 2 concepts of the state. The first is the concept of a civil state, a country in which dialogue, dialogue, consensus search and joint decision-making are at its heart. On the other hand, we are dealing with the omnipotentness of the state, infallibility, sovereignty, imposing certain solutions and building vertical dependency between government administration and potential recipients of these measures. And hence, I presume, this stubbornness to pass on the possibility of financial flows to support voluntary firefighters by the Minister. Minister, I think that 30 years after the Round Table, since the systemic changes in Poland, the value is the subjective treatment of the partners, the search for compromises, the search for solutions with which the partners will fully identify, rather than pushing them out, against which you protest. You said in your speech that the President of the Volunteer Fire Department did not want to share knowledge with the Chief of State Fire Department. I remember the discussion perfectly... it would be a good idea, hypothetically, because I don't think it was, I know it wasn't... A better solution would be to fix this system, to look for solutions that would lead both sides to talk, to reflect and to seek common solutions, and not to adopt laws which exclude one of the partners from this process. I think that the full identification of such an important, serious environment that we need for Poles, the environment of voluntary firefighters, is also crucial from the point of view of building civil society in rural areas. I wonder, Minister, if you will give up so much in your speeches from the political context... I wonder how much voluntary firefighters are not the subject of political rivalry between the Government of Law and Justice and President Waldemar Pawlak, President of voluntary firefighters. Isn't it a struggle for influence, a fight for electorate, a fight for the environment of voluntary firefights, so strongly embedded and connected with the rural environment? I hope, Minister, that we will not forget what is at the heart of this matter, if you are here in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The point of the case is, of course, to help voluntary firefighters operate, to develop their activities and to treat them partnerly. And that is why, Minister, I must admit honestly, I do not understand either the determination or the passion with which you are defending a solution that is wrong in my view. I outlined this context by drawing up a report on the work of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I'm all the more surprised that you're calling me back, referring to your local experience. I think that the local government in Poland, especially the local government, perfectly passes its exam, many times in difficult times has passed it insanely positively. I think that 150 years of experience with voluntary firefighters, very diverse over the years, shows that this environment is immune to various kinds of influences, including political influences. I think he'll come out with a defensive hand, too, from the situation he's in today. I think, Minister... I ask you and your senators not to interrupt this excellent process, which many of you have started as a live one, fighting for free Poland, so that we continue to give opportunities to different environments in Poland so that they can co-decide on their fate and participate in decisions taken to some extent, more or less, co-decide on how they will develop. I hope you'll never forget this message. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u139	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! General! Ladies and gentlemen! The Senate is the House of Reflection. The Senate is the place where we reflect on whether a given law corresponds to what should happen, reconstructing public reality, giving shape to abstracts. For many years since my venerable colleagues from the opposition, I have heard that we are insensitive to the amendments of minorities, that we do not want to make amendments, that the scale of the amendments is always very small, insignificant, that the Senate is actually a voting machine. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill that we are about to amend. But now that we're correcting it, it's bad, too. Ladies and gentlemen, this side of the room She's used to it: if it's 500+, it's bad, if it's a criterion, it's bad, if it's a 13th pension, it's bad. Any solution that brings good to Poles and improve the quality of life, by colleagues from the opposition is unfortunately treated as something bad. If I hear there's going to be a process of the destruction of volunteer firefighters now, I'm, ladies and gentlemen, astonished. Volunteer firefighters and State Firefighters are How well the Minister said from this place the lungs of one organism. One can't function without the other. The solution that we have under our national conditions is the object of jealousy in those countries where it is not. That's the way it is. in the East. There is no such formation in Ukraine as voluntary firefighters. Our specialists go there to talk to show that such formation is very necessary. This regulation, which further clarifies the relationship between the State Fire Department and the voluntary fire department, is also very necessary. It is an expected regulation, regulation of good and regulation, which will improve the operation of the entire uniform formation. Dear people, no one as well as professional firefighters knows what equipment is needed, what should work both within national units of the system and outside the national system. Ladies and gentlemen, there are numerous volunteer firefighters in my territory. It is a rural area, there are county fire department commands. There is also a central fire school in Częstochowa. The cooperation between these bodies is what we assume in this regulation, is excellent cooperation. I purposely asked the Minister. 'Cause maybe I have a distorted image, a painting from my land, that cooperation is good. If there are complaints from other parts of the country about non-cooperation. There isn't. Cooperation is very good everywhere. And the opposition colleagues say that we're trying to plant destruction again, to do something bad, something bad. It's not like that, ladies and gentlemen. There are still voices here about politicization. They always appear everywhere when we improve the quality of life of social groups, environment, infrastructure. It's all there, Dear Lords, politicized. As far as the volunteer fire department is concerned, I would like to remind you that the voice of a special retirement for volunteers appeared exactly when the PO-PSL coalition lost its power. This proposal came from the Polish People's Party. The point was to say we wanted to bring it in, but we didn't make it. That would be a distortion of the insurance system. Because if someone's working, they're insured, they have a premium. Of course, we can work on an addition, but it is always a risk, because non-governmental organizations have such a formula for voluntary firefighters, and there are very many and really all volunteers, all volunteers from non-governmental organizations could demand such a pension. And that's where we've been dealing with politics. And the fact that we're giving more millions to upgrade is that we can buy equipment, like the Minister said, and just like the main command does. Centralised purchases are cheaper It's no longer political. I would like to thank you, Minister and General, for this regulation. The regulation is expected in environments, it is needed. This is a good regulation for voluntary firefighters and for PSPs in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u141	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be... You're still the Minister. And the Minister wants to speak? If you don't mind, yes. Come on in, Minister. Minister Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u142	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I volunteered because I know there's such a formula that there's still room to speak at the end... Yes, Minister. ...and say a few words. So thank you for giving the floor. I would like to thank the senators because I think the gentlemen themselves took the floor for this discussion, which was really very interesting, and I say it honestly, in some places even nice, there were interesting arguments. As for the conclusions that the opposition senators have drawn from all of this, this is already somewhat different. These conclusions were sometimes astonishing, even with regard to statements in which various arguments, aspects had been raised, and then completely different conclusions were drawn. But anyway, it's worth talking about. I just want to emphasise one more time, Mr. Senator. Senator Zientarski, I'm addressing you. That nothing special happened. Because you asked me what happened. It's okay. The Sejm has accepted an amendment which, in my view, as a representative of the government, and I hope that also in the assessment of the parliamentary majority, is an amendment which makes the content of this law worse. We therefore want to restore the government's submission. And that's it. The vast majority of those voting in the Sejm supported the entire bill, but the amendment itself was adopted, not as much as you would have expected. Why was the amendment accepted? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is how the Seym voted. You could say an accident at work. You could say that. She was voted out like that. Well, that doesn't change the fact that our government is still in favour of a government proposal, one that was well thought out, well prepared and directed to parliament. First it was addressed to the Sejm, and to the Senate it came in a different form, because the Sejm accepted this amendment, which, well, did not improve the content of the bill, but made it worse. No one, Ladies and Gentlemen, is answering anything. There was such a tone here that we were taking something from someone. On the contrary, we are giving new money to CSR units. Why do the honourable opposition senators not want the law and justice government to give the CSR money? Excuse me. Why don't you want that? Mr. Marshal, Minister, we want even more... And why are you slowing down this process, why do you want it to take longer? As part of the corrigendum... The bill doesn't come in... Well, look what it looks like. The bill you say... After all, we've filed a motion to accept without any amendments, Minister! ...has to enter not the day after the announcement, only 14 days after it. You're still trying to delay a little bit. As you can see, this money will be directed to the CSR units, you want it to be a little bit later. Well, listen to yourselves, Dear Senators. Well, listen to yourselves, what you're saying. Why don't you want the government to give the money to the O.R. units? But we accepted... After all, Minister... And if he's gonna give, it's some other way. ...we've filed a motion for adoption without any amendments to this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the local government is given the opportunity to finance these tasks, which are raised in this amendment to the statutory rank. He'll be able to co-finance. I ask the local authorities to add their resources as far as possible if they can. But the government wants to give this $82 million out of the budget this year, and in the years to come, as much as possible. Because for each year this will be determined separately, as mentioned in one of the provisions of the Act. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. The Minister thinks so and has the right to respond to this. But listen to what the Minister... There you go. Here, on the left side of the Senate hall is a little bit the same as in the Seym: that only what you think is right can be made, and if there is another view, then no. You call yourselves a reflection and give me a chance to reflect. Well, Mr. Marshal, High Senate... There you go, Minister, you can speak here... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Then give me the terms, because... I'm providing you with terms. Thank you very much. Calm down, please. Thank you very much. ...and you can continue this reflection until the end. I won't be dragging her long, but now that I'm doing it, let me do it. The House of Reflection... You are proud of the freedom of speech in the Senate, so give me a chance to say. Not that you're the only ones right. You're wrong about this. You're wrong about this. We want to give new support to the important roles of the volunteer fire department and... We therefore support the adoption of this law without amendments. You're not listening to your marshal. That's too bad. You're not listening to your marshal. Well, you're not giving me a chance. Minister, continue. I'm here to clean up the mess. Mr. Senator... Okay, okay. Thank you. One more time, please calm down. Thank you very much. Once again, the government doesn't take anything away from this bill. We support the voluntary fire department operating in the local units. We're giving backup, new backup. We appreciate the role that the CSR units are still fulfilling, and which role was not included in the Act, but at most in the statutes and there was no funding, neither government nor government, because those were regulations. We want to support that. Ladies and gentlemen, there are villages in Poland today, numerous villages in which apart from the units of CSR there is virtually nothing in terms of social infrastructure. These units fulfil an extremely important role, not only in the rescue and fire system, but also in the system of supporting culture, identity, awareness, building a national community, spreading sport, fire knowledge, and many other tasks. We want to give them money as much as possible, and, where possible, to give them the support that is possible today and in the future. Somehow it hurts you that we want to give backup, it hurts. But we are in favour of a party without amendments. Well, then. ... But we support this bill. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's get this over with... But let's just say it's true. We support this bill. Sir... But why are you bothering me? Mr. Senator, calm down! Senator, why are you doing this? Mr. Senator, I'm gonna take a break. Calm down, please. [[We support this bill.]] [[Mr. Senator, don't argue anymore. The Minister has the right to speak.]] Mr. Senator... You're welcome, Minister. Senator Zientarski, this House is not just your property. When you were at the podium, I listened very carefully to you. Give me a chance now. Well, it's also a matter of culture. And you're shouting something. Don't shout. So that this law can enter into force quickly and meet the expectations of firefighters, including local government officials. I'm sure there's no doubt about that. I ask that it be adopted in the version of the Government's submission, please accept minority proposals which, I hope, will become majority proposals after the vote so that we can proceed as soon as possible to the implementation of this important environmental legislation. I'm not finished. He thinks because the senator interrupted me about this role. Schools were often liquidated for various reasons, for various reasons, in your day especially. Unfortunately, also cultural institutions. Also bus connections, railway connections, many other things. Yeah, police stations. More than 400 of 800, more than half. We're playing them now. What's left? They've survived the CSR units. Thanks to the Supreme God that they have survived and fulfilled a very important role in the security system of citizens and the state, in the emergency and fire-fighting system, and have a very important cultural and social role. With regard to this role in the security system, it may still be worth mentioning this at the end. In fact, there was information here that they weren't just putting out fires, that it was the fire department at first, then the fire department. But it was still associated with fires. And now we often say 'guard', because she is such a very multifunctional service and institution. It can be said that it responds to all the misfortune that happens, almost all the misfortune. If you don't know who to report the problem to, you report it to the fire department or rather to the fire department. It is often said to guard, sometimes even without this adjective there is this name, because so multifunctional is this service, the most multifunctional of all. And this is worthy of great appreciation, respect and admiration. We in the proof that we have this respect, we appreciate the role and we see the importance of voluntary firefighters, we have included CSR units in the current, already third year, 4-year programme of modernization of uniformed services. Let me remind you that this is the amount of PLN 9 billion 200 million for 4 MMA services for 4 years. The fire department has 1 billion 723 million zlotys, the police, the largest service, because 6 billion zlotys, including voluntary firefighters, have 501 million zlotys. This is concrete budget support: PLN 501 million for CSR units. That's never happened. Your side, today's opposition, when our first 2007 modernisation programme was over, was asked to appeal, even your Members, because I remember discussions in the internal affairs committee in the Sejm. To prepare a new modernisation project for these services. But you didn't prepare him, we prepared him. We have prepared this project under my direction, as then a Member of the opposition, and also with the co-operation of the chief chief, who was not yet chief chief at the time. Paradise, paradise. This project... And what happened to the project? He didn't even see the legislative procedure, the Marshal of the Sejm didn't even refer him to the session. That was your relationship, Dear Senators, especially with the Civic Platform, but also with PSL. He didn't even go to the Sejm and the Senate, then there was a discount because his term was over, and there was no project. We are following our agenda, as announced by the voters, that there will be a new programme. And we fulfill that promise or promise because we're verbal in everything. There is therefore a new programme, which is implemented in the third year. Not much of it when this program is over, it's gonna be the third step of modernization. We are already working on it, it will be a development program for uniformed services, where we will include volunteer firefighters, not only the State Fire Department and other state services. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an approach that shows who really cares about how this system works so that it's able to have the right potential. So, really... If you don't mind me asking, please, at least in the case of firefighters, let's lower these emotions a little bit and give them this support. The government gives them, let them give them to the government. We're asking for it. Let it accumulate, let it have a greater effect, and let really these important firefighters' functions be sustained, strengthened, continued, and let them produce good results. I hope that the Sejm will be able to quickly pass this bill by adopting the Senate's amendments, and I hope that the Senate will accept minority proposals today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u143	Thank you, Minister. As no legislative proposals have been tabled, I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held today. Oh, Jesus! Finally! [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like an announcement, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u144	Communication: The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Supplementary Provision Act for persons unable to self-exist will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the sitting in room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u145	Dismissed until 5:15 p.m. After the break, of course, there will be votes. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 42 to 17 minutes 20]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u146	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act on Supplementary witnessing for people unable to live on their own. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared... I would very much ask for silence. If I resume the session, that means the break is over. ... It referred to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1258 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the committee meeting, 26 amendments to the Supplementary Provision Act were examined for persons unable to live on their own. Amendments 4, 9, 10, 12, 14, 17, 19, 21, 22 and 25 were accepted by the committee. The other amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present the proposals supported by the minority committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u149	I would just like to appeal and ask you to support the amendments that I present as amendments to the minority of committees. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for the entire term of office, we have introduced social programmes here, where there are no thresholds on which these programmes would be dependent. 500+ doesn't have that threshold, the 13th pension didn't have that threshold. Therefore, it seems that such a threshold should also not be in a situation where we are to grant a benefit to persons unable to live on their own. I stress this and I ask you very much to vote in favour of the minority proposal that I have put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u150	Thank you, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senators Jan Rulewski, Jan Filip Libicki, Mieczysław Augustyn and Tomasz Grodzki submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Mr. Senator. You're welcome. Mind if I take a seat? Yes. You're welcome, Senator. Yes, I'm fit, but I'm impressed. It's about what's gonna happen next. I have to sit down. Get to the point, Senator. Here you go. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u151	I'd like you to support me. Just like Senator Libicki. I saw you nodding your head. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The conclusions of our group's minority groups will make it possible for the kindness of this law to be extended to children and young people, to be disabled by the war and military and to be severely disabled by the profession. We also request the introduction of a compulsory valorization of the benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u152	Thank you very much. Would anybody else like to speak? Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the act as a whole, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 makes it possible for the supplementary benefit to be granted to any person entitled regardless of his or her age. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 makes it possible for eligible persons who are 16 years of age to benefit from the supplementary benefit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 25 against, 58 against. [[Voting No 5]] Amendments 3, 7, 13, 15, 18, 20, 23 and 26 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 24 and 25. Amendment 3 removes the regulation making the grant of supplementary benefit subject to the income criterion. Amendments 7, 13, 15, 18, 20, 23 and 26 are the consequence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted against, 25 against, 59 against. [[Voting No 6]] We are now voting on Amendments 4, 9, 10, 12, 14, 17, 19, 21, 22 and 25. These amendments: cause the supplementary benefit to be granted if the sum of the cash benefits received by the entitled person does not exceed PLN 1 000 600 per month; exclude from the catalogue the benefits not financed by public funds which affect the possibility of obtaining the supplementary benefit, the benefit from the survivor's pension; extend the range of potential healthcare providers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 60 for, 24 against, no senator abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Now we're voting on Amendment 5, right? Excuse me? Eleven o'clock. Eleven... Are you sure it's number 11 now? Yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But please be quiet, because I wouldn't want to make a mistake. I know I'm supposed to go to Amendment 11, but I have to check it out. Excuse me, but I'm checking. So that's Amendment 11, right? Only if the amendments were rejected and 3 amendments were rejected... Oh, those other ones weren't rejected, which is further. Come on, because the next ones weren't rejected... So now I'm sure it's Amendment 11? No 11. I'm sorry, the vote is complicated, but... Yes? Does everyone confirm that? Yes, we confirm. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, this time I believe you. Yes? Yes. We're voting. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 11 increases the amount of the supplementary statement by applying the pension valorisation rate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted against, 25 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 8]] And then what? The whole thing. The whole thing. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please, in a moment, perhaps not yet, at this point in time, for the results. 83 senators voted, 59 for, 8 against, 16 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Supplementary witnessing for persons unable to exist independently. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Fire Protection Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendment. A minority of committees have proposed amendments to the law. Senatski Print No 1262 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, followed by a vote on the amendments tabled if the proposal is rejected. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, in which the committee requests the adoption of the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 25 against, 59 against. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled by a minority of committees. Amendment 1 restores the Minister's competence to allocate funds from the state budget to the costs of the operation of fire protection units. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 59 for, 23 against. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 assigns the Minister the competence to allocate funds for the educational and social tasks of voluntary firefighters. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] But we're not commenting, ladies and gentlemen. Shh. ... We're voting now. Please report the results. 83 senators voted against, 60 against, 23 against. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 3 removes the provision abolishing the limitation of the allocation of funds obtained from paid training by the State Fire Department of firefighters operating outside the State Fire Department solely for the purpose of fire protection and the provision detailing the rules on the distribution of funds obtained from insurance undertakings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 59 for, 24 against. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 57 votes against, 9 against, 16 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Fire Protection Act. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1260, and the report of the Commission In print No 1260 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an opportunity to introduce... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait, wait, let them leave. Half a minute. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u153	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the opportunity to present to the High Senate a law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. Yesterday, July 31st, the Senate Environment Commission examined the bill submitted by the Marshal of the Republic of Poland. This is senate print no. 1260, seym print no. 3616 and 3661. The law under discussion is an essential legal act governing the investment process in the context of environmental protection. The current arrangements mean that the actions of the decision-making bodies in environmental decisions are too formalised and unduly extend environmental procedures. The solutions proposed in the Act aim to reduce bureaucratic burdens and simplify procedures. In addition, the proposed changes will significantly translate into better access for the public concerned in terms of participation in environmental proceedings. The law will protect citizens' interests from unwanted investments much more seriously than before, guaranteeing more potential stakeholders access to justice. This argument is confirmed by the government's simulations, which relate to the real problems of local communities in locating investments with high smell or noise nuisance. The introduction of the law will result in an increase in the case of a large majority of cases involving a circle of parties to proceedings. It should be stressed that this does not affect in any way the participation of social or environmental organisations in environmental proceedings and was wrongly expressed by the Ombudsman during a committee meeting. The provisions of the Act do not change the conditions for the participation of such organisations in environmental proceedings, therefore it is not understandable to base on the emotions of society on such important issues that are falsely presented or based on inappropriate... omission of other provisions applicable in such cases. It should also be stressed that the Act removes unreasonable solutions and allows the public to participate in the assessment of investments. It should be recalled that, in accordance with the rules in force, the parties to proceedings for the adoption of decisions on environmental conditions are landowners who adhere directly to the project being carried out. That's one thing. Secondly, they are the owners of parcels adjacent directly... Secondly, they are the owners of parcels on which, as a result of the implementation or operation of the project, environmental quality standards have been exceeded. Thirdly, the procedure includes land owners within the scope of the investment, which may restrict the use of the property. This criterion is important in the context of investments which are odorously burdensome, such as farms, landfills, pigsty houses. Of the 3 criteria mentioned, only the criterion of immediate neighbourhood will be replaced by a distance criterion, while the remaining criteria will remain unchanged. This issue is ignored by the contestants of the proposed solution. It should be pointed out that the criterion of the immediate neighbourhood led to absurd situations in which property owners separated by way of investment were not parties to the proceeding. They could have owned a house 30, 40 m from a powerful investment and had no right to participate in the proceedings. On the other hand, the owner of the property a few kilometres from the investment was a party to the proceedings, because its plot bordered on a plot covered by the investment, even on a small part. This was not the right of owners of nearby plots because their properties did not border on the plots on which the investment was made. Moreover, in practice there are often situations where an investor artificially divides the plot in which he intends to carry out the project in order to limit the parties to the proceedings. The proposed solutions will significantly prevent this type of practice. These issues were clarified by the government at the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment with the involvement of the Ombudsman and stakeholders. With regard to the amendments tabled by Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka at the meeting of the Environment Committee, it should be pointed out that almost half of the proposal was withdrawn by the Senator due to the shortcomings indicated by the Legislative Office. Most of these proposals were discussed earlier and were rejected by the Seym Environment Commission in the course of its work. On the other hand, the amendments voted on during the committee meeting could not be taken into account due to the circumstances indicated by the government, including the potential non-compliance of the proposed solutions with European Union law. The amendment tabled by the High Senate concerns those aspects of environmental decision-making which constitute real barriers to investors, but often also significantly impedes the functioning of state institutions, especially regional environmental directors, and, as underlined, citizens themselves. The Act thus does not put the investor in a privileged position vis-à-vis other parties to the proceedings, i.e. a society interested in the matter. The barriers removed are procedural in nature and the solutions put in place make better use of the administrative potential of environmental authorities. However, these changes do not pose a risk to the achievement of environmental objectives and to public participation in the protection of the environment, especially since at the same time the Act introduces important solutions to seal the investment process rules in the context of the powers of the architectural and construction authorities. The adoption of the Act will be particularly important in the face of investment in Poland which is crucial for the economic development of the country, especially in the field of road and rail infrastructure. This action is particularly important in the context of the efficient use of European funds for the development of investment, including investments for the needs of the local community. The aim of the Act is to improve activities in environmental authorities, which, in the light of existing legal solutions, are heavily burdened with a large number of cases. For example, in 2017 some 3 000 cases were brought to regional environmental directors, in which the investor is a local government entity or a subsidiary. This creates a significant burden on the Authority and the real risks of extending the environmental decision-making process. The proposed law changes legal conditions in such a way that, after the law enters into force, the powers in this area will be transferred to the wojets, mayors, city presidents. At the same time, the rules make it necessary for the relevant regional environmental director to agree on the need for an environmental impact assessment. Without this, the decision by the governor on the legal arrangement required by law would be affected by a serious breach of the law, which would constitute a condition for annulment of such a decision. WDOŚ will therefore act as an independent and qualified body for the environmental impact of the assessment, ensuring compliance with Directive 2011/92 of the European Union. It should also be mentioned that the role of regional environmental directors will be strengthened, as through the supervisory powers set out in the proposed Article. 76 laws will be able to control possible irregularities related to the decision-making by the mayors, mayors, city presidents. In addition, the projector has set up an evaluation of the effects of the law. Three years after the entry into force of the Act, an assessment will be carried out to verify the extent to which the intended objectives have been achieved by eliminating interpretation doubts, improving administrative procedures and strengthening the control of environmental authorities. It should also be stressed that it is not true what is often raised in political and public discourse, i.e. that the Act aims at liberalising legislation in a way that would facilitate investment at the expense of public participation in environmental protection. It is worth pointing out that the law in many places tightens the requirements for the investor, including provisions on the content of the report on the environmental impact of the project or the obligation to provide personal data to the entire team of authors of the report or forecasts of environmental impact and their signature. Moreover, the Act clarifies the concept of changing the use of the facility in the. Construction Law, and so far it has not been clear for both investors and architectural and construction bodies. In this way, when the neighbour who runs the pigsty intends to expand it by increasing the inventory to a threshold that would require environmental decisions, such action will be understood as a change in the way the building is used or part of it, requiring that it be notified to the architectural and construction authorities. Residents who are dissatisfied with the operation of a pigsty neighbour who wishes to skip this procedure will be able to inform the construction surveillance of the irregularities that have occurred. Building authorities will in turn be obliged to object in the event that the intended construction or change of use of the facility is not preceded by a directive or an environmental decision. In addition, the Act extends the competence of the Regional Environment Director in situations where an investor obtains an investment decision without prior obtaining a decision on environmental conditions where required. In this case, WDOŚ will have wide supervisory powers over proceedings conducted by local government units and local review colleges. It will have the right to apply for annulment of the investment decision and even to challenge an environmental decision which has been issued in breach of the law. These competences will strengthen the enforcement of environmental decisions and increase compliance with the rules governing those decisions. Whatever the case, there are other options that will be introduced by the Act, including: the obligation for the investor to determine the location of the project on a map drawn up on the basis of the registration map, so that there will no longer be any doubt as to the exact location of the intended project. There is an elimination of proceedings for failure to carry out an environmental impact assessment. The Authority shall determine the absence of such an obligation in the environmental decision. At present, the decision in this regard is duplicated both in the proceedings and in the decision. Next: it is envisaged to transfer the competences of the RDOS to the authorities of local government units in matters in which the municipality is an investor and in cases concerning closed areas, except in areas defined by the Minister for National Defence as areas of particular importance for State security. This amendment leaves key decisions in the course of environmental proceedings with regard to the administrative authority of WDOŚ, as these authorities will be bound by the need for a full environmental impact assessment of the project's environmental performance report and the conditions for the implementation and functioning of the project. The obligation for an investor to translate documentation into the official languages of all countries in which the implementation of the investment may affect the environment or draft strategic documents, if more than 2 countries are concerned, will be abolished, which will reduce expenditure on translation of documents. This solution is in line with the ESPOO Convention. The implementations so far unduly extended the requirement for translation of documentation. It is all the more incomprehensible to question this solution by some social organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have introduced you into the scope of this law. The Senate Environment Committee has decided not to accept the amendments tabled at its meeting. I think that the subject which was presented at the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment, I have submitted to you and ask you to support the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u155	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u156	Senator, before I ask a question, I would like to remind you that you are the rapporteur of the committee. You introduced peans about this bill, but you didn't say anything about the committee meeting. I'd like you to say what the Ombudsman said. This was happening at this committee meeting. We weren't all on it, and you have a duty to tell us what his position was, what the charges were. That's one thing. Secondly, please tell us what the allegations of non-governmental organisations were. Third, my question is this. You didn't allow a few representatives of the organization to speak. I'd like to ask why.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u157	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u158	Mr Senator, you were a guest at the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment, and it is good that you were. You had the opportunity to speak - and I am happy about it. Indeed, at the sitting in my introductory one can say, the presentation I passed on the content and matter of the law that was being discussed. The Ombudsman expressed his position, of course, different from that of the government, given that the Ombudsman considers that this law undermines civil liberties. The Ombudsman said he represented the citizens in some way. Of course, there were a lot of people involved... not a lot, because it wasn't an excessive number of people, but there were representatives of social organizations. And if not, you could say an excessive discussion of senators who had the opportunity to present themselves and comment on this bill, then all representatives of social organizations would have the opportunity to express themselves. Unfortunately, time had to be limited due to the fact that there were further meetings of the committees in which we had an obligation to participate. So that's the answer the senator knew. You were aware that there was a limited speaking time for particular groups. Everyone had the opportunity to submit their comments, proposals. At the very beginning, I proposed that each of the speakers submit their comments to the bill. Often these were not comments submitted to the bill, but, you can say, making your points, presenting who represents and, you can say, making issues that often passed the matter of the law. That is why I had to stick consistently to the subject that was presented at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u159	Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am very sorry, Mr President. I was at this committee meeting and what you have presented does not exactly reflect the mood or the conduct of this committee meeting. The committee meeting was very turbulent. The social side had a lot of comments to make... The Minister wasn't here. Please? The Minister is laughing at... Well, the Minister is laughing, and the Minister wasn't there. I have the impression that the Minister has actually put his hand in this report - I'm going to say it straight, because that's just how I feel about it. So all I'd like to say is that things were different. I simply took over some of the amendments tabled by the local government, but as a result of the vote there was simply no settlement for these amendments, because no option was in the majority. I will therefore repeat these amendments in plenary today as soon as I am allowed to speak. And I wouldn't want that to be a social call. Mr President, I am very sorry, but this is an honest speech, not a malicious speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u161	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u162	Senator, Madam President, you have the right to say this because you represent a particular political group and, of course, you have the right to disagree with what I have presented or what the Ministry has presented. I also encouraged your ombudsman to attend the meeting. And you have to confirm that, you can't deny that. I was hoping that... I said: Mr. Ombudsman, I am counting on you to be, and in some way you will also be an expressor of the social group, which is practically present today at the committee meeting. Mr. Spokesman said he wouldn't be at the Senate meeting. And that's pretty much the end of it. Of course, you've tabled your amendments, but don't tell me there's been no settlement. All the amendments you tabled were rejected by the Senate Environment Committee. That's the law. And that's in the committee's record. You can reach the committee's protocol. So that I would ask that we stand in the light of truth and certain objectivity, not unnecessary emotions. Ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u163	Thank you. There you go, Senator Rotnicka - question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u164	Actually, I'd like to take the floor ad vocem. It is not my political formation that leads me to such a position, it is my expertise that leads me to such a position. And that's my correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u165	You have the right or duty to have your own opinions. So that I can respect your views.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u166	Thank you, Senator. Senator Comfort? No. No further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Kowalczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A few words about this law, which has actually become the object of attacks for reasons I don't understand. I think we're completely confusing the concepts and subject matter of the government's submission with what is really being criticised, because talking about it... Unfortunately, the Ombudsman was also involved in this, talking directly about excluding the community from opinion and public participation in environmental decision-making. I would like to point out that, in fact, the participation of the public and the extent of the participation of non-governmental organisations does not concern... This bill doesn't change that. The only most controversial issue that has emerged here and in this discussion is the change in the question of stakeholders, the transition from the neighbourhood of parcels to a zone of at least 100 m, but not only, because it is much wider if there is a significant impact on the environment. This solution is absolutely aimed at increasing public participation in environmental investment decisions. If I hear there's gonna be a pigsty, an incinerator or anything under someone else's window under this law, I apologize for the emotional expression. You can't say worse lies. Well, so far, this procedure could actually take place because the party is a neighbor whose land is bordered by a parcel, so you can imagine... I'll give you an example of my home. To the border of the plot, to the road is 8 m from my window, then there is a 6 meter road and behind this road is part of the land of a certain farm. If, at this moment, my neighbor, the farmer, the neighbor behind the road, not one whose land is directly bordered by mine, wanted to build a pigsty of any size, then I would not be a party to this proceeding, even though this pigsty would have been built 15 m from my window. This is the current legal situation. We propose such a legal condition that for each investment 100 m is an absolutely imposed obligation and someone who is in the zone 100 m is a party to the proceedings. But that's not enough distance. Plus, it's an art. 74. 3a, which is changed Just passing away from this neighborhood of parcels It states that if the project is 100 m from the boundaries of the plot, this zone, of course, must be covered, but also the plots where, as a result of the implementation, operation or use of the project, the environmental quality standards would be exceeded, i.e. over 100 m... If these plots were affected by exceeding the environmental quality standards, the owners of these parcels would also be party to the proceedings. Similarly, the owners of parcels within the scope of the significant impact of the project, which may restrict the development of the property in accordance with the current state of destination. So the owners of these plots become a party, too. And so far, this solution has only been for a direct neighbour at the border of the plot. This example, which I gave, with my home and by my way, shows clearly that here we are extending the rights of the parties in the proceedings, not narrowing them down. And that's the difference that, not knowing why, was presented in a way that absolutely misses the truth. We're doing the opposite. We implement this provision, we introduce a significant increase in the participation of society and neighbours in investment decision-making. But we actually eliminate absurdities. And such absurdities used to be. Because if we build a bridge on the river, and the river is also a plot that stretches several, several kilometers, then in fact each side, each owner of the plot, adjacent to this river, even within 10 kilometers of the bridge, is at the moment, according to the legal state, a party in the proceedings. I said, well, on what grounds? Is such a landlord even interested if you build a bridge on the river within 10 km of his apartment? But of course he formally borders on this river. Therefore, this absurdity is actually eliminated, and this distance is introduced. Currently, he would not have any chance to be a party in the proceedings of the owner of a plot located very close to this bridge, but divided by the border of another plot. I think there are a lot of misunderstandings that have arisen on the side of this bill. That is why I call on you to actually use truth, real facts, not to say that it is a law, I do not know, a lex developer, that the pigsty will arise under someone's nose through this law. Such a pigsty could have been created thanks to the current legal state. With this bill, things like this aren't gonna arise. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u169	Minister, we in the Senate have experience with your predecessor, which ended badly. Your predecessor similarly assured me that everything he did was for the good of the procedure, to make it easier that these were the changes he needed. And it turns out it ended badly. For him, but above all for the environment in Poland. I am asking you this time with the question: why do you not admit what the whole procedure of opinion of this law was like, first of all? Please state who you have consulted and why we are dealing again with a situation where the Ministry behaves as if only the Ministry is right and does not listen to important voices of social factors. And believe me, I really... Well, your successor's gonna come here someday, and he's gonna make it better, because it's gonna turn out that he's the ombudsman, and so on... that they're right. You'll be ashamed of yourself. That's why something like a consultation was invented. Consultations are designed to take account of opinions, not to present... So, please state the whole course of the consultation, what opinions you have taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u170	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The consultation process of this law took into account all possible entities that were interested in that law. Of course, this consultation took place. No, during the consultation work on this law, no such comments or such problems were reported. That's not enough. Indeed, one request was made: to significantly increase the participation of NGOs in decision-making, including suspension of proceedings in the event when anybody raises any doubts. Of course, everyone has the right to raise doubts, but this cannot be an opportunity to paralyze any administrative or investment activities. Listening to this request would actually mean that when anybody would have called attention, we would have stopped the proceedings. So this request could not be taken into account. And it was really the only postulate that wasn't included. And then there's the second one: so that you can object to the arrangement. An objection to a court shall be made on the basis of a decision rather than an arrangement. Otherwise, we would have court proceedings at the next stages, which would obviously have paralyzed the investment completely. And as for the others... And that's also where we said we didn't listen to the local government website. Well, we listened very much to the local government. Among other things, one of the demands of the self-government party was to transfer this administrative mitrage, yes it is called That is to say, issuing environmental decisions for investments carried out by the local government... This, of course, applies mainly to local roads. Because, in the current legal state, every road led by a local government, even intact road crowns, trees, in general nothing in the environment, any modernization of the road or repair of asphalt above a kilometer long was subject to an environmental impact assessment procedure. It was the local authorities who asked very much for this law to be amended so that, as it was in previous years, i.e. 10 years ago, local authorities could conduct this administrative procedure. Of course, under the full control and supervision of regional environmental directorates, because such supervision remained, so that this investment process could go smoothly. The rapporteur spoke about the number of cases that are currently being handled in the Regional Environment Directorates by means of environmental decisions on local roads. A lot of local roads are currently being built. It's renovating, it's modernizing a lot of these roads. Of course, more will be modernised. This is the result of the introduction of a very wealthy Self-Government Road Fund. This Self-Government Road Fund is supposed to be an incentive for local authorities to modernise their local roads, to improve their infrastructure, to help with this issue. Leaving this law in this respect would practically result in administrative paralysis. We would actually have the money from the Self-Government Road Fund, and no local government would be able to do it. Therefore, local governments and self-government corporations look forward to the adoption of this law with great satisfaction and even great impatience. Of course, I do not need to add that the joint committee of government and local government has given this bill a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u172	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Antoni Szymanski:
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u173	Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I would like to ask if this bill offers any chance in a situation that I will describe. Namely in Waplewa the Great It is the district of Sztumski. It is the branch of the National Museum in Gdańsk, the Museum of the Szlachecka Tradition. And in the immediate vicinity of this beautiful museum is to be built a huge pigsty. I don't know if it's 100 meters or maybe 150 meters. Maybe a little further. Is there any chance of protecting such monuments that are very important to the local community? Besides, it's not just for the local community, because it's a unique museum. Is there any way to protect the national heritage in this situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u174	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u175	Thank you very much. It is precisely in such situations that the new wording of the article. 74. 3a enables the website, the owner of the museum, to intervene on the basis of this article, which has so far been impossible in practice. Unless the plot on which the museum was located bordered directly with the planned investment, then it was possible. But if, God forbid, it was between the property on which the museum is located, and the planned investment was, even if another plot, for example. road The museum could not have been a party to this procedure at that time. And here we allow such parties to proceed. Of course, this does not prejudge the outcome of the procedure. But in fact, this law refers to allowing parties to conduct environmental decisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u176	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u177	I have a question: when will the anti-odore bill be in Poland? 'Cause that's what... Louder, louder. Can't you hear me? No. When will the anti-odore bill be in Poland? I know that there are already some work in the European Union on this subject. This will apply to the whole of the European Union. Maybe you could think of something like this so that there are no such questions and such fears of all the parties we're talking about. That's the first line. And I would ask for it, and the other thing is about building roads. Minister, in the days of the Civic Platform, when we were dealing with the existing law, we managed to build these roads very quickly. It is the PiS currently has a problem with the construction of roads in Poland. No such changes in the law will help here, because here you just need skills, you need to be able to implement it, and above all, there is a need for money which, as you know, has been directed elsewhere. But I would ask you to tell us at what stage the so-called law is currently being prepared in Poland. anti-odor regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u178	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Senator! The anti-odore Act, a comprehensive anti-odor Act, which treats all odor nuisance objectively, is in the preparation phase. I do not hide that this is not a simple law, because it is very difficult to objectively measure the size of odor or the value of odor, and the law should specify certain objective parameters, it cannot be a subjective feeling. Part of this law, the solution proposed by the government, and this is after the work of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, at a very advanced level, is the introduction of distance standards, a minimum distance for placing large industrial farms. This law is already after the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, i.e. in the final phase of implementation by the government, after the agreements. She defines e.g. size of farm investments of this type: 1 unit of DJP 1 m distance. Of course, it starts from 210, because up to 210 are those farms that are not subject to environmental assessment, these are family farms. From 210 to 500 for each large unit is 1 meter away, over 500 DJP is 500 meters away. So this bill is being prepared. Of course, it will supplement and clarify the provisions in the article. 73, which I quoted, i.e. that it significantly affects etc., here it will be parametrized. This will, of course, make it much easier for local authorities to decide whether to agree to this type of activity. This law significantly responds to social waiting and increases the number of parties in the proceedings. The Minimum Distance Act, which is on the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, will parametrate these distances for breeding, of course. Work is currently underway on a full, comprehensive odor law, which concerns scent nuisance and is at an advanced level, but due to technological difficulties the law is not yet complete. As far as the roads are concerned, I would like to refer to this statement yes. We are talking about roads led and built by local government units, which is extremely important. We are not talking about motorways, high-speed roads, which are subject to a full environmental impact procedure and have nothing to do with it is who, and at what rate he was building. In previous governments, as the senator was gracious to note, actually local roads were built less, without comparison, and hence probably such... Oh, no, they were built. Now, in the regional environmental directorates, there are congestions due to a large number of local roads being built, and we are really moving the issues of local roads in these administrative decisions to local governments. But it has nothing to do with the roads that the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways is building, i.e. motorways and highways, national roads, because it is not a local investor. We're talking about local investments we want to move. And the fact that there is a large queue in the Regional Environmental Directorates for Local Government Roads only shows that these roads are being built many times more than before.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u180	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal, can I still... Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm short, I hope, three questions. The odor law is not a matter of consideration here, but the Minister mentioned... I have a question for you. Minister, I understand that it is close to the completion of the draft odor law covering breeding, in general. And it's not just farms that are, so to speak, the source of the ominous smells that revolve around this source. So I understand that this is the first stage. Could you tell the Minister two words about this? That's the first question. Second question, Minister. This is what Senator Szymański asked you, namely the Old Fair and the Waplewo municipality. I'd like to make sure what this bill is carrying. If there is an investment, the source of which is more than 100 m away from such an object as the historic object, then whether or not, according to the draft of this law, the museum will clearly participate in the proceedings. My third question is this. Did you anticipate creating this bill, how it could be avoided? Because it's always the case that some make a bill and others think about how to avoid it. Let's take the situation that a large site is being created, which is subject to the Law on Emissions, excessive emissions of ominous substances, let's call it that in general, and has a negative impact on the environment, but because it is such a large site that the distance from the museum or from other plots, from my plot is 150, 200 m... Does this law provide citizens with the opportunity to participate in the creation of consent and all documents related to the permission to launch this investment at a distance of more than 100 m?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u182	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u183	Thank you very much. I'll start with that second question, if you don't mind. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Like I said, it's a record of an art. 74 in the first part speaks of 100 m, i.e. as if everything within 100 m is subject to environmental impact assessment and empowers the party, empowers the owners of these parcels to be a party to this proceeding. But that's not all, that's point 1. Point 3, on the other hand, constitutes a share within the scope of the significant impact of the project, which may restrict the development of the real estate. The farmhouse at the museum undoubtedly restricts the development of the property, the one on which the museum is located. Therefore, on this basis, anyone who is within the reach of the potential pigsty is a party to the proceedings may be a party to the proceedings. Of course, this is agreed by the regional environmental management and even if you could say yes, the museum is self-government... Although it's the other way around here because we're talking about pigsty investment, and it's not a local investment, so this is where the collision isn't going to happen. In any case, it is subject to an environmental impact assessment and is considered by the Regional Directorate. On the basis of this provision, restrictions on the development of the property may be introduced according to its current purpose. This is undoubtedly the reason for this intervention, which could not be said of the record so far, if there was another indirect plot between the museum and the pig farm, which would separate these two plots. On the basis of current records, this would not be possible. And even if there wasn't a cut like that... Unfortunately, there have been cases of artificial division of parcels to introduce a parcel that will be a buffer between one and the other. There have been cases like this, too. This bill eliminates such attempts to circumvent the records. As far as this law is concerned about odour or odor nuisance, it is indeed a complicated stage and I do not hide that a team of specialists from the Warsaw University of Technology is also working on this law. It's about setting parameters, pointing out what's a scent nuisance. Well, unfortunately, it's not that simple. Therefore, the first stage is a law that directly parametrizes large industrial breeding facilities. This is the stage that is already in the final stages of government work. And the other one... We develop parameters for the introduction of such limitations, limitations related to odour nuisance. Mr. Marshal, may I continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u184	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u185	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. I was just asking... I understand the museum case. What about a natural person with a plot of 150, 200, 300 meters? I understand that on the same terms. it may participate if it is considered that this will worsen the investment perspective for this plot, which is 150, 200, 300 m... Honestly. Please? Honestly... Yes. Exactly. Finally, I would like to ask, Minister, if there is a definition of the word "meaning" and who will determine it. This is a very important thing, Minister. Anyway, you said the so-called one. The odor law that the inconspicuous records make... they never enter into force. That's why it's so difficult with measles, because it's hard to define these records. It's gonna make a lot of difference... Is there a definition of him and who will determine what is meaningful?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u186	The Regional Environmental Directorate decides on the basis of the report whether it is significantly affecting or not significantly affecting. I repeat once again: up to 100 m is mandatory, regardless of the environmental impact, everyone is a party, while over 100 m is a significant environmental impact or limitation of the use of this plot... I used the museum as an example that was set here, but this applies to absolutely all entities, i.e. homes, all buildings, neighbors, people in the impact zone, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u187	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... Minister, the more in the woods, the more trees. I'm going back to my... Depends on who's cutting... Yeah, depending on who's cutting it out. Sometimes the further into the forest, the less trees. Yeah, but that's not what we're talking about. Minister, I'm going back to my example. I live at a distance of 150 m or 200 m and consider that the resulting object, generally speaking, significantly worsens my living, investment and future conditions regarding my plot. What would I have to do if I wanted to prove it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u188	A significant impact is determined on the basis of a report... So I have to make a report? No. ... On the basis of the report submitted by the investor and the assessment carried out by the Regional Environment Directorate. We don't change this record, this is how it works. What are we really changing in this bill? Change the list of pages of the proceedings All those who are within 100 m are automatically party to the proceedings are also those who are in the affected area, which has not been practiced so far. Currently, so far it was a direct neighbor who bordered on the plot. That's the difference between writing a new one and the one that still exists.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u189	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u190	Excuse me, may I? Senator, let me ask you a question... I'm talking to my friend because he's nervous about us asking questions. No, it's just... I think it's quite... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It seems to me, however, that this bill raises quite a number of doubts. I'm not an environmental specialist, but I want... from what the Minister says, it's been so far that the parties to the proceedings, so to speak, are within the perimeter of the plot. Am I right? And right now it's gonna be like if someone buys one. A big, multi-hectare lot, it's in the middle of this plot that he'll be able to make a bet. As a neighbor, I don't even know what, but if I suspect something's going on in there... What does it look like if this plot of mine is more than 100 m away? As I understand it, I have to do some research at my own expense. Yes? And if there's any... He doesn't understand anything... Tell me what I'm gonna lose, what opportunities if I'm not a party to this. I want the Minister to take this into account. If I am not a party to the proceedings, am I notified of all kinds of things that happen there, about the fact that there are any expertise being carried out? Can I even find out what's going to happen there, keep me informed? Well, I'm not a party to the proceedings, because this plot of mine, even though it's adjacent to this investor's share, is far too far. Suppose it's a garbage dump. The Minister knows very well that every garbage dump at first doesn't hurt anybody, it doesn't stink and it's fantastic, it's the greenest thing in the world, and then it turns out that you can't just live there. It's the same with pigsty, mink farms, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u191	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Senator! These records, which we propose here, extend the cultivation of interested persons much more than they have been so far. Of course, one can imagine that someone with 1 thousand ha will be in the middle of this thousand-acre field of investment, and it will probably be difficult to justify that someone who lives 1 km behind this area has a legal interest in blocking this investment. But when it comes to... Well, it's probably gonna be hard. But it's got to be a pretty big cut. Because in the case of a plot of even a few hectares and any investment, it is already very difficult to find such a situation that at a distance of more than 100 m there are no neighbors. And now there's gonna be a lot more of them than it could have been so far. But the question was very important. We are talking about these 100 m, but I am constantly returning to the record saying that much above 100 m of the proceedings can be the owner of the plot, which is within the scope of the significant environmental impact of the project. And now there's a question of what a significant impact is. Of course, we will not define all the issues, but there will also be an evaluation regulation, which is in the final phase of the work, for signature, which indicates a catalogue of investments that have a significant impact on the environment and potentially have a significant impact on the environment. And there's this catalog. Which may never be complete, because e.g. In the future, someone will come up with something extraordinary... But it covers all the basic investments of the type of landfill, all kinds of livestock... And there, in this regulation, we also write out the distances relevant to the significant environmental impact of these farms, etc. So this will not be entirely freely and discretionaryly defined by the Regional Environment Directorate, because there will be a regulation that will precisely regulate these issues concerning a project that has a significant impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u193	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u194	I'm only a short time away, because this discussion also causes... She's actually forcing new questions. If there was a regulation along with the bill, perhaps a significant part of the questions would not be asked. But he's not here. I have another question. But there's a regulation. Is there a regulation? There it is. But the kind of content you're talking about? With this catalog? The regulation is as far as any agreement is concerned. And it's publicly known. Good. But... This regulation is not an annex to this law, but it is. Well, then we won't argue, because here Senator Radziwiłł is very appalled by these questions. He seems to be a specialist in this matter as well... Yeah. Everything. Everything. I'm listening and I'm just trying to think. And I'm trying to be tolerant. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Oh, that's a big success. Anyway, here's the question: Is this the plot you call the road? 'Cause it's actually a plot... And when a river that is a pretext Wouldn't it be easier to make a reservation of the type when it happens? So, yeah, we have a neighborhood, but in a situation where the road cuts through it, it's not... There's actually a lot of small stuff here. I'll just share a message. Well, in my constituency one company built huge production and storage halls, such facilities, so there should be an environmental impact study, and there was a report prepared by this web page, this report was actually funny until someone noticed it. The point was that a company that produces chemical reagents, insecticides, etc., must consume a lot of water, and the report said that the production halls would be sweeped and water wouldn't be taken into account, and that water would be flushed down there somewhere. So it's about how someone, not an investor, but a citizen who doesn't care about a plot, or a municipality, needs to be prepared to know that the report is that it should be brought to the attention of the regional environmental directorate. So there are problems here. I'm asking about this road and this river.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u195	Just one word. Of course, writing that roads don't belong to neighborhood parcels would be a bit of a solution. I'm sorry about the comparison. How's it going? Linear... ...to grab his left hand by the right ear, because in a moment some investor who wants to get rid of a direct neighbor would separate a five-meter belt of his plot, they wouldn't call it a road... That is what we are doing today. This example, Mrs. Senator, is precisely an example that has been possible under the existing law. In the case of this law, it will already be much more difficult, and perhaps even impossible. That's why we're introducing this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u196	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u197	Minister, I'm here. Oh, I'm sorry. As you know, more and more people are moving from town to country. They have such beautiful ideas about the village that they will go to this village, build a house for themselves, but there will be no side effects of living there. They do not understand that the village is also a place of food production, etc. If they are now reading information about the implementation of this law, and the transmission of anti-government media is unambiguous: PiS has prepared a bill for entrepreneurs, completely disregarding the opinion of citizens... This message is fed by people who have neither read this law, nor have time or desire to read this law, and this information will continue in the media, especially the social media, spread, multiply and do fermentation. I would therefore like you to make it clear that this law improves the whole process of issuing environmental decisions, makes it clearer and transparent, and in no way violates the civil rights of those citizens who are directly interested in investing. Because it's important to clean things out of this bleacher, and you're the most qualified person. With us, on our territory, from which I am a senator, there are many such investments and we know how many problems there have been so far, how many protests there have been. There are mink farms and henhouses and pigsty. And that's what's always bothering the locals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u198	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I very much regret the fact that this law has made a weapon of political warfare. That's what I call it. I'm not afraid to say it. Unfortunately, the Ombudsman was also involved in this without fully reading the law. Oh, no, sir... I, of course, talk all the time and straighten out, as I do now, very patiently... Well, well, well! Unfortunately, those are the facts. I am patiently straightening and showing what is the fact in the case of this bill. It is very difficult to prove that you are not a camel, but of course I will try, I will explain. There are explanations on the website of the Ministry of Environment, there are examples, examples that social organisations showed yesterday as examples of alleged restrictions on the rights of neighbours or the right of the community to be a party to investment. It turns out that if new solutions are applied to these examples, in each of these examples there are much fewer parties to the current rules than to the provisions proposed by us. Of course, there is the only exception when we build roads and crossings cause us to notify all the neighbors of this road over a few kilometers, which is, of course, absurd. Because if someone lives a few kilometers from the intersection, which is being rebuilt, but the plot obviously stretches, then these parties are less interested. But these are just examples, examples of parcels, so-called. linear, that is, roads and rivers. In other cases, the number of parties entitled to speak on the project is always higher under the new proposed law than the previous solution. We'll systematically straighten it out, calm it down. I understand that this is very difficult because, unfortunately, a lot of false information has spilled out. And we're based on emotions, not on sound reasoning. Well, unfortunately, I'm sad about it, I'm sorry, but I understand that this is the time when we act, based on emotions, and not necessarily rational reasoning.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u200	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! One point. You said, starting your speech, to use terms that are sort of confirmed by certain facts. And I'm signing off on it. Let's talk about facts, not emotions. You said you didn't read the bill. Therefore, I would ask for such a thing. Minister, maybe you and your spokesperson are different. And I see there's a difference here. But... where the truth lies, life will show, but such a statement that you haven't read the bill, and that's why he says... It's offensive. That's what I'd say, Minister. Of course I know that's not true. You're the one who doesn't know this bill at all. Well, that's not true. Therefore, I suggest we move away from this rhetoric, because the bill is too serious for us to enter into such rhetoric. And now two questions. Minister, you said a draft regulation that would clarify certain things. If the Minister doesn't remember, perhaps this information could be received in writing. It is about this regulation, whether or not coffee shops are included there as well. I get a lot of complaints about the coffee shop, and that's why I'm also interested in whether in this regulation... Because I know that fur animals and other animals are listed there. Coffee burners, contrary to appearances, I explain if anyone doesn't know. However, they are very cumbersome. That's the first question. If you don't remember today, Minister, it could be in writing. I don't expect the Minister to answer now. And second question. Minister, I understand that what Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe I'll wait. Minister, I am now returning to this bill. From what the Minister has said, I understand that local governments have expressed a positive opinion on the draft law. As you observe what is happening in this social sphere, you can see that there are a lot of negative opinions among different kinds of organizations. That's what Senator Gawel was talking about. Well, I know you'll be on the opposite side and say they're wrong, but I'd like to ask you something else and ask the Minister something else. Since there are so many people, organizations, institutions that have big doubts, they even make it clear that it is a limitation of their participation in the process of making investment decisions... Senator Gawel set an example here, and you said it wasn't true. This is my question: did you meet at the consultation stage with these organisations, the institutions? Have you guys done this kind of thing? Were there discussions, analyses, shows? Or was it done so that you sent it to the consultation, they gave a negative opinion, and that's it? Because that's often how consulting is done in Poland... or it's not done at all. So if you could just... Because the Minister's consultation with the local government has been comprehensive, but I'm interested in how it was with the social side.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u202	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The statement that the Ombudsman had not read this law is perhaps too far-reaching, but these statements and comments actually sounded as if he had not read or understood it. This is completely different because the facts that were given were unfortunately not in line with the provisions of the Act. As far as these arrangements and opinions are concerned, the draft law was consulted. I have here a list of very numerous organizations with which he was consulted. I can put this list... Besides, she's in the annexes to the bill, in the explanatory statement, as usual. Some of the comments that these organisations made during their work have even been taken into account. It wasn't like we resisted everything and said no. It was a very substantive dialogue. But the end of the work, to be honest, surprised me personally. Why the reluctance to do so, expressed in such a violent way, and the provision of unreal information on matters which are being addressed in this law? Among those opinions that are now emerging are those which do not concern the provisions of this Act at all, and I will remind you that this is a revision of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, i.e. the revision of this review. There is also criticism of those records which are not in this law, that is, perhaps the records that have been in operation for many years. We don't change them, maybe we still need to change them. But this criticism was mostly about... I'll be honest with you, I'm looking for the motives of this criticism, and I can see that, unfortunately, this criticism is based on emotions. I stress once again: completely unnecessary, because it is enough to look at the records in a very rational way, to look at the records coldly, to examine them, to see examples, because these examples show that we are eliminating a lot of absurdities related to these different routes, rivers, and so on. And we're realising the public's involvement in this bill. Where did all this excitement come from? It's hard for me to say right now, but I can only... Maybe I won't add what I wanted to say anymore. But we're trying to explain it very patiently.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u204	Senator Blackbay again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u205	Minister, I'm going back to this consultation... But I'm gonna say one more sentence about where it's coming from. Policy makers have said something that unfortunately exists in politics all over the world, i.e. That politics is more important than the facts. And that, unfortunately, is a steta thing that may have touched the Minister in this regard. Now I'm going back to this consultation. Minister, did the consultations look like this, that you sent out the project and those organizations sent back their opinions, and you used some, and you didn't use some? Am I to understand that this was a consultation?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u206	This is generally the case, but there were also meetings on this bill. In general, anyone who filed... We've sent the project to these entities. I can read these entities here. Part of the opinion was taken into account, part not included, and I even said at the outset, which were not included, among others. so that it is not possible at all stages to refer the case to court and stop the investment process. There have been such demands and they have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u207	Thank you very much. I don't hear any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator, let me ask you another question: is there a need for a written reply from the Minister? The minister in this fervor forgot and he didn't answer my question about these coffee ovens... In writing. In writing, right? Uh-huh. Okay, okay. Okay, I'm the one who writes in the minutes that the Minister will respond in writing to Senator Blackobay. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. You're ready for your speech, Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few notes. The Minister has repeatedly accused the other party of missing the truth, misinterpreting, etc., etc. Minister, you said from this speaker that the organizations weren't commenting. You said later that you took these comments into account... Hi. Hi. Saying about 5 in 500 that some of the comments you've taken into account, and it's just plain editorial, is misleading the public. You're asking me why you're so emotional. I'll answer you. Because the history of the last 3 or 4 years of your activities in ecology arouses emotions. And you're not gonna get away with this emotion. You have no chance of getting away from them. Cutting down the woods and all that environmental stuff you've been doing... You said a thousand acres of land was needed to cut those 100 yards. I don't know when the last time you were in the field or taking steps was because it took 10 acres to cut a plot that would be 100 meters away. And since you've said quite clearly in a few places, I'm going to say pretty clearly, too. I think that's all you've been saying here, that's a far-reaching hypocrisy. It must be hypocritical to say that it is better and that you have now introduced legislation that improves the situation of the citizen. If you were present yesterday at a committee meeting where I, not being a member of this committee, was present for a while, then you would know that your colleagues and the rapporteur, who was at the meeting yesterday, were simply saying that it was necessary to change this system, to simplify it, because it is a system that blocks investment and therefore needs to be balanced... And speaking of balancing, they said that these powers had to be taken away from the social side. That's why you're hitting this place like a bullet in the fence, because that's exactly what your co-workers said. You were talking about cooperation. Where was the public hearing? You rejected it in the Seym. There was a conclusion. What did it bother you? Why didn't you do a public hearing? You know you didn't do it. Minister, I'm going back to the committee meeting. I didn't hear a word there... There was no social organization that would in any way support this project. There wasn't one. I think that's by the way... Maybe I'm used to working in two completely different committees because I'm a member of the Human Rights Committee and the Legislative Commission. I don't think the way we conducted yesterday's meeting was right that such a serious problem, which really arouses so much emotion, should... This meeting should be held in such a way that people who deal with this on a daily basis - and still in the presence of the Ombudsman - can express themselves. It wasn't given to them. And I think it's a big mistake. Why are you so emotional? Minister, before I go to the point, I will remind you of a European joke that has been worked in a completely different fashion for three years than it looked original. There's an international joke: what is heaven? Heaven is where the Englishman is a policeman, a French cook, an Italian lover, a Pole a patriot, a German a soldier, and a Norwegian an ecologist. And since you came, the Poles have made this joke like this. What the hell is this? The Englishman is a chef, German policeman, Italian patriot, French soldier, Norwegian lover, and ministers are environmentalists. I'm going back to the content page. You told the Minister that the Ombudsman didn't read the project. Because there's no ombudsman here, I'm going to quote what he says. I'll read it. The analysis of the project submitted shows that, in addition to other effects, the projecter also established a drastic limitation of the rights of the local community to participate in proceedings. According to the proposal, government change is to be made, among others. Article 2 74 laws. The essential elements of this amendment include: a reduction from 20 to 10 parties to the procedure on which the application of the Article is subject. 49 of the Code of Administrative Procedure and therefore the possibility of withdrawing from the name of service; the amendment of the rules for determining the area of impact of the undertaking is to be envisaged as the area in which the project will be carried out; and the area within 100 m from the borders of the site; the actual exclusion from the application of the institution of reopening proceedings at the request of the entity to whom the quality of the party would be entitled and without its own fault did not take part in the proceedings; the actual exclusion from the proceedings of property owners not disclosed in the perpetual books or other relevant registers. In the opinion of the Ombudsman, the proposed solutions raise fundamental doubts as to the compatibility with EU law and binding international law of the Republic of Poland. It should be stressed that, pursuant to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, Member States are required to ensure that members of the community concerned, having a sufficient interest or possibly an infringement, where the administrative legal procedures of a Member State so require, have access to a review procedure before a court or other independent and impartial body established by the law to challenge the material or procedural legality of decisions or omissions. etc., etc. Minister, I will not, of course, read the entire argument of the Ombudsman. I would just like to remind you that we have had ministers in this Chamber on several occasions, especially justice, who claimed that there is no problem and that there is no conflict with European Union rules, and we are paying heavy money for this right now. Your predecessor assured us that there was no problem with one of the projects, and then we were very strongly disciplined by the European Union. You're authoritarianly trying to tell us that the spokesperson is wrong. Minister, one... Can I use five minutes right away? I'm not gonna... There's no Senator Rotnicka in the O.R. I'd like that very much. I'm gonna finish, and I'm not gonna speak again. One of the most important things that we have achieved over the last 20 or 30 years is the strengthening of ownership, is to strengthen our confidence that we can invest in conditions that will not deteriorate. If I commit my wealth and buy a house, I'm sure, or at least the state should guarantee it... And that's where you're supposed to go. I should be guaranteed that in a few years I won't have a factory under my nose that's gonna be dusting where the trucks are gonna be passing and that's gonna smell. It's your submission that can't give me that in any way. I won't, because unfortunately I don't have enough time, every... I hope that Senator Rotnicka, because we have the same amendments, which will justify why we are making these amendments. I will make these amendments, and I hope so, Minister, that it will not be like this: we wanted well and it came out as usual. I hope this isn't going to be a serious problem. And finally, I would like to apologize very much... I would very much like to hear a possible reply, I am not running away from it, only as it happens, Minister, that colleagues from your formation are so organizing for us in the Senate that we have been completely unable to plan for four years a day, not one week, and unfortunately I have to leave, I am already late. Today there are celebrations of the anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising in Warsaw. This meeting was planned so that I had no opportunity to participate in any of these events since this morning, and I have to leave. This is in no way proof of any failure by the Minister on my part. I would like to hear every criticism I make, but unfortunately, I have to leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u209	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not gonna talk long, 'cause pretty much everything's been said. And at the committee meeting, and here the previous speakers also expressed my concerns. I'll just sum it up in two or three sentences. I consider this to be my reception and many people It is a law that does not so much protect the environment and value the social side, giving it the opportunity to make a broad statement about this environment and what is happening in this environment, which facilitates the work of the official and facilitates the investor's investment. That's the social perception. Some even go to talk about similarity to the so-called. lex developer. To be honest, I understand these people. The treatment of the social side by an official, by the Ministry, and also by parliamentarians in a disrespectful way leads to the situation that is taking place today. Perhaps in practice, this is not the worst law, but at the moment I believe that it contains such records that should not be included in the law, because they are impelling us to resist. If we don't notify someone, we just notify them through the notice, he feels excluded. If we restrict his participation in the proceedings Instead of 20 pages of the case we have 10 pages of the case, he feels eliminated. So I am making two minor amendments that have already been tabled at the committee meeting, but I am obliged to do so. And by submitting them to the marshal, at the same time, so that they may be considered today, so that we may pass this bill. I cannot express a positive opinion about this bill, but the will will will be on the side of the senators. I expect to see what the opinion will be, what it will be. Let me just say one more thing. The Ombudsman, who was present at the committee meeting, clearly stated his position, and at least my position and a few others are in line with that position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u211	Senator, I'm just asking for your signature. Oh, the signature. Can I have a pen, please? You're welcome. I mean, it's obvious that you're the professor who put it together. Well, you have to. I'd like to speak with Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that by listening to the long list of questions and also to the voices in the discussion, I feel that there is actually little to add to what the Minister has already said: emotions prevail over the substantive discussion. Because, of course, there is something to discuss, and the issue of a certain balance between investors' rights and investors' neighbours is a topic worth discussing. But for example. Talking about the so-called. the social side makes no sense, because the social side can be both those who live there and those who want to start an economic activity or operate in the economic world. So here we are dealing with two social sides, not with the social side and some kind of oppression from public authority. This is a complete misunderstanding. In addition, I have the impression that these emotions are so-called emotions. environmentalists from Marszałkowska, i.e. people who from the perspective of the center of Warsaw see the village as a place where it would be nice to buy a second home, to live, to breathe fresh air and to the horizon not see a trace of human foot or human action. Well, Senator Gaweł made that very clear, and I fully agree. The village is also a place of work, a place of earning, a place of labor, a place of labor, an effort of people who have the right to be reasonable, with a certain degree of restraint and moderation However, use the place where they are allowed to live and work. It seems that this law deserves support for just two reasons, i.e. because you see it, on the one hand, you see the interest of this social side, which just wants to invest, wants to work, wants to do business in the environment of the environment, and on the other hand the need to safeguard the rights of those who are neighbours, especially those closest to the former's neighbours. When it comes to this first case, in a way that no one's denying... Because if we read the justification of the bill, we will see that it is simply expressed, that it is a whole range of different simplifications, the elimination of barriers of a non-essential nature, but bureaucratic And it's a good thing it's happening. Also including the introduction of certain elements of computer science, e.g. in the case of presentation of registration maps. It is worth looking into this and seeing how this law, complicated, difficult law, looks in this regard. There is simply a whole range of simplifications that do not have the character of withdrawal from e.g. a substantive assessment of the investment project, but which primarily removes barriers without any justification. It's just that... Well, that's the difference between substantive assessment, sometimes difficult reporting, etc., and bureaucracy, that bureaucracy is, so to speak, the perversion of this process. And this perversion, which often occurs simply over the course of years, must be eliminated. And very well, because infinitely long waiting e.g. the decision on the application or investment idea, the assessment of the investment application is simply hitting human rights, the rights of people who want to invest, want to do business. This is one part of this law, actually quite large, actually a large part of this law. No one, including the Minister, denies that this is the purpose of this law. But there is another side, and it was mentioned here, perhaps even more often, probably because so many people in this room, but also among social organizations that are interested in this law, are people who see every business activity as a threat to our existence, striking to the environment, this is the issue of neighbours and their powers. In my opinion, this case is solved in the most rational way. Well, the absurdities you were talking about, the minister, where a small river or even a ditch, Minister, a meliorative trench, because this is also a plot that is 3.5 m wide or 4 m wide, such a trench is a plot... Then the other person on the other side of the drainage ditch is no longer a neighbor. So to allow the right-hand side to all those who have plots within a 100 m radius of the investment... They can enter the right side, perform protests, etc., etc. It's obvious to give them additional authority. And another question: all those who are outside this zone of 100 m, well, in principle without limitation, but for which investment can significantly affect the environment so that it affects them, can also enter the rights of the party. By the way. Here some countries have been asking very much who and how to assess what this is a significant environmental breach. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not taken me a very long time to find a regulation on this matter, which has been in force since 2010, i.e. since the Civil Platform and the PSL were run by governments. There's a very long list of these circumstances... Trouble. ...which can significantly hit the environment, it's described. As regards the draft amendment of these provisions, which the Minister mentioned, he has been on the side of the Government Legislative Centre since 13 February 2019, so there was also a lot of time to get to know it, especially those who were so interested in it. There's a very long list. By the way, Mr. Senator Blackobay, there's no coffee shop, anyway I couldn't find it. Like I said, there's a very long list, from nuclear power plants to all kinds of processing solutions... The coffee shop wasn't included, but marijuana... Yeah, yeah, they are. So, ladies and gentlemen, the other side, the social side, once again I stress, is also treated as it should be. So the balance between investors and neighbors, in my opinion, is... As far as both sides and their rights are concerned, this is it. best solved. It seems that... there is no revolution here, because this law is only an amendment of the law in force so far, and the regulation on these circumstances, which can significantly affect the environment, is being amended. It doesn't come in here either... This is not a new rule, and it has nothing to do with the amendment itself, because it's like I said. Already in February, the draft of this amendment was published. Ladies and gentlemen, for all the reasons that I have said, calmly, after a substantive assessment, it seems to me that this law really deserves to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. Very good speech. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I would like to draw attention to this part concerning the public opinion and the receipt of the draft law. However, before I say this, I would like to point out that what Senator Radziwiłł said confirms my doubts. Well, I didn't even check, but the senator checked it out. There is a listed nuclear power plant, which in the area, in Poland is so good that it is actually mentioned in the first place, but already the coffee shop, which is around, is not on the list. They're here. Is there a smoker? Well, you're... Turns out it might be. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that such documents should be created with a large dose of receiving signals from the community, from the social side. Senator, the social side of these problems is defined as follows: there is an investor and there is a social side. In general, such discussions are conducted at local government level to determine whether or not the investment is making life conditions worse. The investor presents, presents, and the social side evaluates what is to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in the history of the Republic of Poland there was a government which infallibly believed that children from 6 years of age should go to school. Your government. But the public said, no, we think that these scientific rations you're presenting from the Seym Court and the Senate stands aren't coming to us, we want our children to go to school at the age of 7. And all the signs on earth, the scientific signs, the experiences of other countries have shown that you have to send children from the age of six. And so it is with this bill. She could be gold... Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it may be gold, but if I personally receive more than 7 000 different kinds of electronic writings related to this bill... The minister said what the discussion was about: the conclusions were received, some were taken into account. Why hasn't a public debate been held, the social side hasn't been persuaded, the way we're talking here? It took so long to talk until the proverbial white smoke went away. You could say we agreed on it, most of it we agreed on. You want to convince the public that it's in his interest. But people feel different. You say: because you have not read the law, you do not understand this law. This country is acting like a bad teacher. I like to compare to teachers. When a student doesn't understand why 2 plus 2 is 4 and why 2 times 2 is 4, it's a bad teacher who says you won't understand it because you didn't read it right. What does a good teacher do? Well, he's gonna talk to this student for so long, and he's gonna talk to him until he explains that fundamental difference, that these results are the same and why they're the same. The state, like this evil teacher, you say: this is a good law, but we are improving everything here. As the Minister says, Everything is fine, but society doesn't understand it, it doesn't understand that it's for his own good. I believe that, in the case of such laws, it is necessary to talk long with the social factor in order to convince each other and to show reasons. In such situations, I would like to tell you what I have told the Minister. The impression is to a large extent... in politics the impression is sometimes more important than the facts. The arguments must be put forward and as long as they need to be discussed. If, in turn, the principle is that proposals which are made and made by a million people, so to speak, had to be discussed and not debated, either by a referendum or by any other decision, then the reception is as it is. I want to tell you that I think you know that, too, you feel it in conversations. Poles attach more and more importance to the environmental component. They understand more and more, get more and more involved, ask more and more questions. If we add that in 50 cities with the worst air quality 36 is in Poland, Poles are rightly afraid that this bill may not be in their interest. Therefore, there should be a public hearing, a conversation, and not a criticism of your Ombudsman that he has not read it and is therefore wrong. Right is achieved by discussion, showing facts, talking. This law requires this process, and you are presenting an attitude: we are right, citizens are wrong, led by the spokesperson, have not read, know each other, we want to protect them from investments that make their lives worse, and they do not understand it. This way, ladies and gentlemen, leads nowhere. I believe that the laws that cause so much emotion among local communities do not proceed in this way. I am telling you this from the experience of the groups that ruled before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u215	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! I listen to this discussion and I hear very interesting voices. I must say that my predecessor's speech has mobilized me to speak. I'll do my best. It's not to offend the previous speaker. You may be offended. Your speeches are so blooming, sociotechnically well-built, moving pro-social and legal threads. We've known this for four years. You have to be well-focused and have some knowledge to catch the untruths you're smuggling while you're at it. And it's just a bastard. You used the phrase that it's scientifically proven that six-year-olds should go to school. That's what I know. You're in the wrong place. That's bullshit. Look at the map of Europe, see how many countries children go to school at the age of 7. In some countries they go even at the age of 8. However, I would urge more substantive speeches. We're talking about serious matters, the discussion goes on. I would ask you to discipline your thoughts more and not to offend people. 'Cause it's not like a P.I.S. came in, and he thinks he's eaten all his brains and satisfied with populism. That's not true. You can't say that. I beg you, sir, if you wouldn't mind, sir. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u217	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Professor, I mistook myself and left for the second time. Of course, as a professor, you can say to a person who doesn't have such titles that her speech is a bastard. It's your style, I respect it. You have the right, you have your age and your scientific achievements. You are an intelligent man in a meaningful world of science and you have the right to judge my speech as a great bastard. I'm taking this kind of shit because I've always been careful, and to this day, I think the professor's title is mandatory. When someone stands in front of me and says, "I'm Professor Kowalski," I start working harder right away. But I'm sorry to say that when you left and said what you said, it was as if you had a master's degree in your speech, Professor. As a master engineer, I want to say that I feel equal with you. I don't think I've said any lies or bastards. And I promise you, I will check exactly how many countries there are, where children go to school at the age of 6 and where they go at the age of 7. And if that is true, Professor, that most of the children in Europe, in the European Union, go to school at the age of 7, then I will cross out most of the word and say, "Professor, in this respect you are right." That wasn't the subject of my speech. Once again, I would like to stress that so that you, as a professor, understand the performance of an engineer's master's degree who does not want to talk about the bastards in relation to your speech. I will say once again, gently, without rascalism, Professor: the purpose of my statement was and is to emphasize that the power which bases its laws only on its own wisdom ends badly. And I say it from my own experience. A lot of comments that society has been directing to previous governments... Whether they were scientific or not, whether they were professors' signatures or not, is irrelevant. I am talking about the fact that when a million people propose that they want a referendum, it needs to be seriously considered. If there are so many people protesting and saying that this bill makes their role worse as individuals in the investment decision-making process, and if that's what the professor was talking about... We amplify that this is going to be significant... Well, from the previous bill... how much truth is there, it's... Okay, let's assume it was the same thing. If it was so good, why change it? And now that we're changing, let's do it so that society, Professor, understands and accepts it. Let us do so so that there are no such records as "meaning," because then it is the official who decides what it means to mean. Let us clarify in such a way that citizens are sure that this law is in their interest and not a bastard to them. And I hope that this bill in the sense of citizens will not be a bastard and will not be understood as such. That is why I propose, Professor, to reject this language of Dreducion and the kind of dirdimals that the Professor has spoken to me here. If I'm... Well, what's the difference between drudgery and dyrdymals? If I'm the person who's actually making a mistake here in terms of interpretation on the issue of six - and seven-year-olds, I'm gonna check and put ash on my head. But it's not right for the professor to make that kind of comment here in this room. And in the second part, Professor, I'm going to say excuse me if you're offended, I'm sorry, I just wanted to adjust to your level, and I'm very sorry. Thank you very much. That's not fair. That's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u219	Senator Kazimierz Wind, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Well, I think this performance from the senator's second speech will leave you with an assessment. And I suggest to the senator that he may have a look at this video, because it's not even suitable for commenting. He's not good for commenting. It would have been much better if you had listened carefully to what I was talking about before you started comparing degrees, degrees, degrees, and degrees. Because you used my words as if I said that most of the children in Europe have been going to school for seven years. And I just focused on saying that it's not true that it's scientifically proven that six-year-olds should go to school. And that's all I was talking about. At the moment, I am able to mention some outstanding authorities in the field of pedagogy, which have the opposite opinion on this subject. So once again, you've given a show of eloquence and sociotech. And I'm not going to talk about the terms of insulting people anymore, because that's what I'm leaving to the marshal and the senators to judge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u221	Please. But you're very kind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u222	Mr. Marshal, Professor, I, speaking of scientific studies... The previous government also presented scientific studies, according to which it is better to go to school at the age of 6 than at the age of 7. How many scientists are there, so many opinions. And that was the point of my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u223	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Maciej Łuczak, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and Senator Alexander Pociej. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister. Perhaps the Minister will explain the matter of the coffee shop in the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u224	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Let me refer to the thread that's been touched here. I'm the father of a boy who went to school as a six-year-old, and based on practice, I can say it was a big mistake. Luckily, we managed to control it somehow. From a parent's perspective and practice in this area, I would like to say that an attempt to antagonize and show on one side of us, parents, on the other side of some opinion seems to be... Well, here's where the practice verified it. I am glad that it is as it is, and my son can continue to learn and develop. Minister, I merely remind you that the legislative proposals do not apply to six-year-olds, let us put it this way. I'm sorry, I just left the moment one of the senators told a joke. I think this is serious, and this is no place for jokes. But you senators have more experience in these matters, I'm just a humble vice minister. I would like to say that in the case of this law, the Vice-President of the Ombudsman urged from the station just a week ago that social organisations should appear at a committee meeting to take part in the discussion. I think it was unnecessary, because, as has been said, this project was hung on websites and could be addressed. And, ladies and gentlemen, the NGOs have spoken. Very common these are very substantive comments that we have adopted. Of course, we could not accept those comments which did not concern the law itself. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in such a situation that around this project, very substantive - which is to fight absurdities and reduce bureaucracy, allow Poland to develop dynamically - many emotions have been built up. Emotions that were controlled by such announcements led by the social media or by websites. Today's electronic tools offer the opportunity to generate an extraordinary number of such documents. It's the kind of pages that work. This is extremely simple and often does not correspond to actual emotions. That is why we vote not by bots, but by opinion. I was at the committee meeting yesterday and I have to say that I listened with great attention because I have great respect for the Ombudsman's institution, I think it is an important institution in the country. It saddens me that he is so deeply involved in these political processes and is misleading, as witnessed by the fact that the spokesperson by force of his institution and his statement pointed out that this regulation directly affects the position of NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an article on non-governmental organisations in this process. 44 laws. We have not touched this article in any way during our work. And this shows that perhaps this policy by the small "p" decided that these emotions were turned on by misleading. Because this law, ladies and gentlemen, gives citizens greater opportunities, as has been said here, not only because of the first time any border appears. But this is not any cosmic technology, Ladies and gentlemen, because in many countries this distance is indicated and in these countries the inhabitants have the right to do so. In addition, at these 100 m, Ladies and gentlemen, this protection does not end. We can even see a meme on Twitter that shows that someone's gonna lose. No, ladies and gentlemen, you will not lose, because we are expanding by 2 more zones. Those zones that are, they're normative. We can measure them. And the next zone is this zone that talks about interactions that may not be normative, but that makes the inhabitants have a worse condition for their existence. It's even about light smog or odor-related issues. Yesterday at the meeting, ladies and gentlemen, we talked not only about this regulation, but also about the issue of odors, which this law does not directly regulate, because it is regulated by another document currently being processed by the government. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is also some confusion. And here's the need for the kind of order that Senator Wind was talking about, such respect for our taxpayers. The point is to talk about facts. Very hard, even our lawyers... There's a doctor in the courtroom who just had to argue with unsubstantiated remarks. An example - one of the articles that Mr. Ombudsperson's lawyer mistake. He tried to create such an illogical structure, and he did not really read one article about things started and not finished. He built such a big narrative, emotions that are completely contrary to the facts. And we increase the capacity of administration, we speed up procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that we are trying to change something, to encourage a different kind of wording here. As I said, on the one hand, we have taken many sides, many voices from NGOs, NGOs, and on the other hand we are talking about cases where... Our intention is that things that go on for years... It takes up to 7 years, Ladies and gentlemen, and this is because there are certain properties on which water cannot be taken, there cannot be a way because unfortunately we cannot find heirs, we cannot find people who own this land. In this way we block the development of a given region, access to water, to basic... Of course, it looks different from the perspective of Warsaw, but even in Warsaw, there are districts in the capital of Poland where there are no sewers. So let's just say in a lot of places where our citizens are deprived of these basic elements by the fact that procedures continue... This is also the aftermath of certain actions that have taken place. Part of the remit has been transferred to WDOŚ, without providing additional jobs. 3,000 cases have completely blocked these organizations. Here we give local governments a chance, under the supervision of regional environmental management, but also make these managements able to deal with these most important issues, of course supporting local authorities, because that is our goal. The point is that all these elements can play together. This is what this regulation is for. I believe that these emotions were unnecessary, because this is a regulation that was really widely consulted. If I hear at one of the stations that NGOs are called to appear... Ladies and gentlemen, I have been to this committee. Organisations talked about several locations where there would be a reduction in the number of people. We've checked every location they've talked about... It was just one non-governmental organization. It turned out that in each location this number is increasing. The Ombudsman has not presented any simulations. We've done this job, every one of these places has been analyzed twice. We checked, and it turns out it's actually 100%. , and in one place by 1000% , there will be an increase in the number of stakeholders who can participate in the proceedings. They're gonna be a party. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also responsible in the Ministry of the Environment for the Aarhus Convention, and I must say that we take into account... That's where the effect counts, not some kind of artificial division. Today, as a result of this artificial division, we have farms that have changed locations, bought parcels around, and even this principle of contact didn't give the residents anything. So we see these real problems that are in the field that are in Poland and we want to help. As I say, NGOs were involved... So that saying that we are trying to limit their role in some way is absolutely incompatible not only with the intention, not only with the spirit of this regulation, but also with the letter of this law. If we read it thoroughly, if we find time to read it carefully, and not just to try to build some emotion, some narrative that is supposed to dictate to the citizens or involve them... I witnessed today an interview in which it was said that suddenly, suddenly, they would create pigsty 100 m from... I think it's the time of the facts, so it's probably already there. No, they're not, they're not gonna arise because we're involving citizens... We care about that. That's what you often talk about, President Duda, to rebuild the community. And this regulation not only rebuilds this community, but also gives the local community the right tools. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I will ask the Environment Committee to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. And we begin to consider item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the borders of the state and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1245 and the committee's report in print No 1245 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Michał Podowiczny, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to refer to the meeting of the Committee on National Defence, which yesterday dealt with the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the state borders and some other laws. Maybe a few words about the bill first, about its purpose and subject matter. The Act introduces new measures to assist veterans outside the State. This also applies to personnel in military units and officers of other uniformed services and clarifies the rules for granting existing forms of assistance to veterans of operations outside the State, including in particular: as the competent authority on intelligence agency officers, it establishes a Head of Intelligence Agency in place of the Head of the ABW, who has so far taken decisions on assistance to intelligence agency officers; it defines the definition of veteran houses and establishes detailed rules for the use of this facility; it extends the definition of a peace mission or stabilisation mission to rescue, search and humanitarian actions; it grants greater powers to veterans who have been injured at least 30%, among others. free re-adaptation tournaments, the right to receive financial assistance for 2 forms of education and paid additional leave of 5 working days. In addition to the Act mentioned in the title, the Act also amends a number of other laws, such as the Police Act, the Border Guard Act, the State Fire Department, the pension provision of soldiers, the service of officers of the Military Counterintelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service, as well as the Law on the State Security Service. In a few words, I will present the course of legislative work. The government bill amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws entered the Sejm on 30 May this year. The first reading of the Sejm was held on 3 July and the report of the National Defence Committee was presented on 4 July. The second reading took place on 17 July and as a result of the amendments tabled, the committee presented a report on 18 July. In the third reading, which took place on 19 July, part of the amendments were adopted, of which the most significant one grants a seat in the boarding house or in the boarding house on the basis of the Act on the accommodation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland to soldiers or persons with the status of a veteran of activities outside the borders of the State or a veteran injured in activities outside the borders of the State, residing in a village other than the one in which the boarding house or boarding house is located. The Legislative Office states that the law does not raise any legal and legislative objections. The committee's course was calm. The discussion was held and discussed, among others. The three questions that Minister Skurkiewicz answered. These questions concerned inter alia. possible loss of seats at the veteran's house by some veterans. This has been clarified as the changes to the law make it much easier to use a veteran's home. Another question was whether the number of veterans would increase by veterans from rescue and humanitarian operations, as if an additional category of veterans. The Minister explained the matter in such a way that it might increase, but in the future, if they are so veterans. The number of veterans is also stated, which is 23 thousand in Poland. 339, of which 857 veterans are injured. This criterion of harder victims, i.e. more than 30% of health damage, covers 113 veterans. The committee meeting was smooth. The vote was unanimous. I ask the High House to accept the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u227	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you... Oh, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u228	Mr. Senator, I have one question. The Act also applies to civil servants in military units working in military units That's how I understand it. But if civilian workers who are not military personnel are involved in all kinds of missions, will they be able to exercise all these powers equally, have there been any changes to the previous law? How will such civilian workers be treated?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u229	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u230	As I understand the draft new law, it follows that all these changes will be more favourable to all veterans, i.e. those participating in these missions, who have so far been treated as missions outside the country, including this extension of peace or stabilisation missions, as well as rescue, search and humanitarian actions. An example is the uniformed formation of Polish firefighters, who so valiantly helped in forest fires in Sweden. But I think the Minister will be more specific if I'm wrong about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u231	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz is with us. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yeah, I can see that. This, Minister, will you please come to the podium? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Senator Potnice very warmly for presenting the proceedings of the committee meeting and the quintessence of the changes proposed by the government in the revision of the Veterans Act. I would like to answer the question that you presented to the senator about civilian workers. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, in fact, we are expanding the veterans' catalogue of civil defence personnel. During the committee work and during the second reading, there was also a discussion about the employees of civil companies that operated or acted in favour of the military. But they were companies. And Mr. Senator is probably talking about the workers who went on missions, who participated in the PKW as e.g. Those who cared about the service of wolves, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the law actually applies to quite a large group, because it will be a group of about a few hundred people. They were employed by companies such as Rosomak SA, WB Electronics SA, Bumar-Łabędy in Gliwice. And here's the problem. Well, we can broadcast the status of a veteran to soldiers, whether it is now, on the basis of this law, to military civilian workers, or, for example, to soldiers. Police officers, firefighters, etc., etc., according to the catalogue introduced by this law. But with regard to those civilians who provided services to the PKW, to the military, we do not have the possibility to make decisions in this regard and give them veteran status. Why? Because they did their work on the basis of a civil law agreement concluded between the Minister of Defence and the entity who provided services for the military, for the Polish contingent, for the soldiers who served on the mission. The remuneration has been paid, this remuneration has been passed on to these entities, and it is they who have employed or still employ those workers who were in the mission of the auxiliary function. So we have no room for manoeuvre here, because these people are in no way directly connected, directly to the Ministry of National Defence, with the Ministry of National Defence. It's just an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u233	Thank you very much. Here you go, now the questions are for the Minister. Let me remind you, it's not more than a minute long. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u234	Minister, as I understand it, civilian workers, who are military personnel, can obtain veteran status, and civil workers from companies that participated in missions, but who were, as we say, civil companies, cannot obtain such status and will not be able to benefit from this law. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u235	Yes, of course. Because an employee of the national defense department is involved in working with his employer, in this case the national defense department. As for this group of employees you're asking about, they're bound by a work contract with specific entities. These are not only entities that are concentrated within the Polish Armament Group, because they are also private entities such as WB Electronics. This is a non-state company, this is a private company. We have or have signed agreements with the employer on the preparation of specific activities, specific activities under the quota. So these are kind of two completely different things. And it was the same in the previous act, right? Yes, yes, of course. I have one more question. And the officers... ♪ We're all the time ♪ I'm sorry. We operate as part of the bill... This is a fresh bill. Let us be aware that the Veterans Act is a legal act adopted in 2011 and, in the case of a legal act, 8 years is a really short time. Today we are modifying those regulations that were adopted in 2011 and are responding to the expectations of the veterans' environment. This law has been very long and strongly consulted with veterans and is, in effect, such a result of these discussions, these joint work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u236	And are the State Security Officers also covered by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u237	Yes, of course. Here it is written: BOR, see: SOP, as they also participated in missions. The services under the Minister of Home Affairs are also covered by this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u238	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Anti-Food Waste Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1256, and the committee's report In print No 1256 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yesterday, three committees met: the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to express an opinion on the Anti-Food Waste Act. At this committee meeting, a single proposal was made, a proposal to adopt a law without amendments, and this proposal gained a strong majority of the votes of the participants in meeting 3 of the joint committees. The Anti-Food Waste Act is a law that came out of the Senate and was largely accepted by the Sejm, which introduced several amendments. I would like to remind you of the principles and solutions it proposes. The Act sets out the rules on food handling and the obligations of food sellers to prevent food waste and the negative social, environmental and economic consequences of food waste. The law introduces the definitions of food waste, food vendors and food sellers respectively. Under that law, a food vendor is obliged to conclude an agreement with a non-governmental organisation on the transfer of food not intended for sale, in particular due to defects in the appearance of the food or its packaging, with the exception of alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength of more than 1,2% and alcoholic beverages which are a mixture of beer and non-alcoholic beverages intended for the performance by that organisation of tasks within the scope set out in Article. 2 point 2 of the Act for the benefit of persons and institutions who help those in need. The law should be concluded in writing or in electronic form, subject to annulment. The Act contains a catalogue of necessary elements which should include an agreement on the free transfer of food for social purposes. The Act requires food sellers to carry out educational and information campaigns in commercial units on the rational management of food and the prevention of food waste. At the same time, with the aim of involving non-governmental organisations in the process of promoting the rational management of food among the public, provision is made for educational and information campaigns to be carried out jointly with the non-governmental organisation with which the food vendor has concluded an agreement on the provision of food for social purposes. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 5 Laws provide for the obligation for food sellers to pay food waste fees. This fee shall be determined by multiplying the unit rate by the weight of the food wasted. The basis for calculating the fee shall be the weight of the food waste in kilograms. The general self-calculation principle introduced is that the obliged entity itself determines the amount of the fee and pays the fee due. The funds derived from the fees shall be transferred to non-governmental organisations with which food sellers have concluded agreements for the free transfer of food for social purposes. The fee is conceived as a specific financial sanction for food sellers who, despite the mechanisms proposed in the draft to transfer free of charge unsold food products, produce significant amounts of food waste. However, in view of the fact that, despite due diligence in the implementation of food waste mitigation measures, food sellers must be present on the side of food sellers, for example, because of the type of food they distribute, it is about food with short shelf-life dates, e.g. meats, vegetables, where food is destined for disposal as waste, provision is made for a regulation whereby the fee is not charged from 10% the weight of the food wasted. In addition, the food vendor will be entitled to reduce the charges accordingly by the costs incurred for educational and information campaigns and/or the costs of implementing a contract for the provision of food for social purposes. According to art. 6 Laws are to be used by a non-governmental organisation to carry out public tasks within the scope set out in Article. 2 and to cover administrative costs, provided that the organisation can allocate no more than 20% to administrative costs the funds obtained from the fee. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8. the Act sets out additional reporting obligations for food sellers, as well as for voivodship environmental and water management funds. In the provisions of Article. The rules governing the imposition of fines and fines for failure to comply with obligations under the law have been regulated. The competent authority for fine-making will be the voivodship environmental inspector responsible for the place where the food seller operates food sales activities. The Act imposes additional obligations on voivodship environmental inspectors. According to Art. 17 Laws within 2 years of the entry into force of the Act, only food sellers operating a food business in the retail or wholesale unit with a sales area of more than 400 m2 will be subject to its obligations. The regulation provides that a food vendor is required to conclude a first contract for the free transfer of food for social purposes within 5 months of its entry into force. Art. 19 introduces a transitional period for the calculation of the fee for food waste. In the first year of application of the new rules, the basis for the calculation of the fee will be 80%. weight of food waste in kilograms. The legislative work in the Sejm was carried out, among others. modification of the conceptual network of the Act and an additional reporting obligation was introduced for non-governmental organisations in the form of an annual report on the management of the obtained food submitted to the Chief Environmental Inspector. New reporting obligations have also been introduced for NGOs, food sellers, and voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. As a result of the proposed amendments, the concept adopted at the initial stage of the legislative work on the Senate project was also referred to, according to which the competent authority for monitoring compliance with the provisions of the Act will be the chief environmental inspector. The Sejm passed the bill in the form of a Senate proposal, with amendments proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The Legislative Office has not submitted comments and proposals for amendments to the Act. I would like to stress that the law has been repeatedly discussed in the Sejm with all interested parties. These were really public debates, which prepared us very strongly for how the law will be implemented. They have certainly also convinced a large part of society that we have a problem with wasted food, and they have also had very important educational elements in relation to this problem. I think it is important to stress that all the political forces represented in the Senate, as well as in the Sejm, have accepted this law, recognise the problem and see the need to resolve it. We are talking here about the fact that we are going to act mainly in terms of trade, large-area trade. But we are aware that wasting food all the time, from production to distribution to waste, especially in our family homes, is a big problem. So we're starting to solve it. And I think we're on the right track. We also know from the committee meeting that different European countries are interested in these solutions, because this issue, which has not yet been regulated in Poland, is also not regulated in many European countries. There's not much experience. It seems that we have prepared good solutions that are not contested by trade, which will have a great role here. These solutions are very much expected by NGOs that distribute food. So that I hope that the bill will be implemented peacefully and factually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by... Is there a question for the senator? No, I didn't just sign up for the discussion, I'm sorry. The bill was introduced by the Senate. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? There you go. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I want to thank the Senate for the initiative. How this bill will be implemented As the rapporteur informed It's an open matter. E.g. Therefore, after 18 months of its implementation, the Chief Inspector will present a report to analyse, make possible adjustments or changes, which is natural with such a complex and complex mechanism, which has never existed before. Nevertheless, this Senate initiative, as you rightly pointed out, has met with the support of all political forces. It is perhaps one of the few laws adopted by all, including the Sejm, in this term of office. At most, there were individuals who had comments. But we all strongly support this so as not to waste food. The waste of food has a moral and ethical aspect, it is simply a sin, but it is also a waste of natural resources, a waste of human work, a waste of good that could be used for other purposes. Unfortunately, hunger in the world is increasing, which is strange, maybe evidence of the immorality of the rich world. Each year several dozen million people increase the army of malnourished and starving people. It is estimated that about 820 million people in the world are suffering from hunger at the limit of life and death, and about 2.5 billion do not eat, which affects health, development, especially children. So food waste has a number of negative aspects, negative impacts on society, it's just a waste that deserves to be condemned. Unfortunately, Poland is one of the leaders in Europe in terms of food waste. This wasting takes place on different levels. That and our individual choices that the senator mentioned. It's also demonizing the shelf-life term, which only says that until that day the producer is responsible for this food, but it doesn't become useless for consumption the next day, and it's often that this date is some mythical term after which the food needs to be discarded. This is also an irrational shopping. But although we do not have much influence on individual decisions, we can shape them, among others. the educational activities carried out by sellers, teaching people good behavior, learning healthy nutrition, product recognition, and finally learning respect for food. In the Polish tradition, respect for food, mainly identified with bread, because bread was a symbol of all food, is very deeply rooted, is rooted in our consciousness, in our cultural heritage, which we rightly pride ourselves on. But the bill, although perhaps not the aim of the initiators, has another very important influence: it teaches the rationality of shopping for traders and shops. At the moment, we often have a situation that reflects on the weakest link in the food chain, mostly farmers, that the quantity ordered for the store is greater than the quantity that the store is able to actually sell. When the deadline ends, the supplier is often forced to reduce the prices of this food, he is forced to take it away, to withdraw it, and the consequences of the wrongly planned purchase are passed on to him. Punishment, not too annoying, but punishment, in the form of a fee for wasted food, will also teach the purchase correctness of these larger traders, because the bill at the beginning applies to larger shops, those that have an area of at least 400 m2. I think it may need to be extended in the future, but this time for implementation and for verification will also be a time for assessing how to modify this law. Support for organisations that help poor people, people who are injured, people who need this food is also extremely important. Not just money that we give generously as a society in the form of collections, in the form of various kinds of write-downs, 1% tax, but also this food, which can be very important for poor people in an increasingly prosperous society, but a society with a large group of poor people, by organisations specialized in this activity will be distributed. This also applies to ecclesiastical organisations, which have great and skill, and the ability to recognise social needs, perhaps the greatest due to their proximity to society. This law in this small extent was improved in the Sejm. It is an obligation to sign an agreement with the organisation and to cooperate with this organisation, including in organising these educational events, these trainings. It's about supporting each other. If someone, with the opportunity to do so, still does not want to pass on this food, he will pay the penalty that will be used to support these organizations. This is a very, very rational solution. Your Senate, I am not going to refer to this law in detail, because first of all, the Senator rapporteur has explained it extensively, and second of all, the Senate is the author of this law, so I think the senators know this law. It would even be a mistake for me to discuss the individual articles very precisely. I would like to thank you very warmly and to say that this is one of the most important laws in this term of office, a law on which there is also consensus, is the agreement of all. In this vibrant political world, this rarely happens. All the more reason for me to bow down and thank you for this initiative. Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u242	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Does anyone want such a... Mr. Senator George Wright. There you go. No, no. No? I thought you did. Are there any questions for the Minister? There isn't. Just to say thank you... There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It's a joyous moment! That's actually rare, Minister. I have to say, as a man immersed in this problem, the president of 2 food banks for twenty-seven years... The Pilski Bank of Food, the second in Poland, will celebrate the twenty-fiveth anniversary and will celebrate it with its only president from the beginning. It's been a long time since I've heard such a competent statement that describes this situation. There were such emotions that should accompany all those who want to protect the environment, who want to get involved in favour of those in need, who approach reality ethically. NGOs may not always be competent, but they have this fire, this zeal that is needed to resist evil phenomena and to spread good. There we will find not only food banks, but also Caritas, and many other organizations with which we cooperate. And that's why it's a good time. This is also a nice moment because this is the third law that I am trying to carry out through Parliament, and I think it ends up being a success. The first two were incentives, tax incentives. First for producers, then for distributors, so that all those who decide to transfer food to a non-governmental organisation for charitable purposes can deduct the VAT previously charged, deduct the value of this food from the tax base and avoid the costs of disposing of this food. In this way it is possible to save about 1/3 of what we can get back from sellers. Hence the impulse from the organization to move on. If these incentives do not work properly, then the next step is needed. And this step is in this introduction. I am glad that I was able to preside in some way, to lead these activities, and that I have always found understanding in my colleagues, in my colleagues, with Senator Szymanski, whom I asked for help. I'd like to thank the Legislative Bureau at this point. We had ideas, and they had work to do. I would like to thank the Ministry because what you have put forward, particularly in the Sejm, was very valuable and all your amendments have been accepted. I particularly thank the Ministry of Agriculture, because in this dispute about who is really going to deal with this, whether the UOKiK or environmental protection, the state has reconciled everyone and we have returned to the Parliamentary presentation. I would therefore like to draw attention to whether to highlight only one aspect here. This bill is not sanctioned. She, yes, imposes certain obligations under the threat of some penalties or charges, but, above all, she is going to build a partnership, a local partnership, so that we do not only talk about food on the occasion of the harvest, when, as you all know, Dear Senators of Norwid's words about the fact that in Poland we bow down to crumble bread by respecting the gifts of heaven, and then it is better not to look at what is in the buckets, which is in the garbage bins, which is in the corners, which is in the bags, which is in the refrigerators. This law does not build any structure, it does not build any additional institutions, it only brings together those who gather volunteers willing to give food to the poor and needy, to those who have it and who could save it from waste. That's why the organization, yes, will report to the Ministry, but above all to this store. We get a fee, but we carry out projects together. The words "cooperatively" and "cooperatively" are the words of the keys to be applied to this law. After all, we do not want to drag anyone into this work of combating food waste, but we want to encourage joint action. Food, ladies and gentlemen, is wasted in our heads, it is wasted in our heads, it is wasted in our Polish heads, it is wasted on an incredible scale: 9 million tons. Why? Because we don't see a problem. Although the law focuses on the recovery of food, it also contains aspects that the Minister and Senator Szymański raised here, stressed educational aspects. They're no less important. If we are sensitive about this, whether we are a salesman behind a counter or a shop manager or a producer or a farmer or just a farmer in our homes, we will do more than today to counter it. We don't have a patent for wisdom or here in the Senate... Thinking together and cooperating in the production of this law, we certainly could not avoid all mistakes. So it is very valuable that, after 18 months, we will evaluate the functioning of this law together. We humbly put it into use, believing it would have a good effect. Those laws saved about 30,000 tons. We hope that we will at least triple this number, that we will be happy to be among the first countries of Europe to do it well, and I know, for example, from the ministry, that there are countries that are already looking at this proposal with great interest today. I'm gonna end up like I started this presentation: a really happy moment. We are not talking about harmony, but we are building it, we are not talking about the need to protect the environment, but we are acting. That is why I am counting on you senators to adopt this bill without amendments, so that the President has the satisfaction of signing it and that we are moving in the right direction, with good action. That's the way it's been said today. And I say it with great emotion, because it is this law that I have been working on, that I am slowly ending, with great satisfaction, my public activity. Maybe someday, in 18 months, Minister, dear Senators, when many of you What do I wish you dearly? It will sum up the first piece of work here, and I will be able to, if I add health to it, somewhere in the gallery, listen to you and enjoy it. I hope that I will be glad that in some large dimension this bill works, that it works and works. And the state that will have this opportunity, health, willingness and confidence of the voters, will probably improve it. Thank you all again. Thank you, senators, and I would like to express my thanks to your marshal... Thank you very much. I thank the Ministry and all those who have contributed to this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What I'm going to say could be summarised with a simple statement: alone against everyone, against this bill. Nevertheless... [[Cell phone signal]] Excuse me. Nevertheless, I do not accept the fact that Senator Augustine is parting with parliamentarianism. If anything, it's temporary. And my vote isn't against everything either. It is part of a discussion in which there was a great deal of compatibility and cooperation, both clubs and representatives of these clubs... Even the government, actually not so much the government as the ministers changed their views during this debate, as well as the partners who implemented this law. And yet I have a lot of doubts. And following the message, as Senator Augustine said, this is a new law, an unknown solution, built entirely from the foundations. So he assumes that it will then be reviewed and evaluated, and I would like this vote to be taken into account. Why is my voice another voice? Because I assume that the problem of food consumption and distribution is more complex than this law indicates, because there is a complex and long chain of food production, transport, trade, storage, consumption and, finally, disposal. And this law is trying to regulate just one passage. This one, I would say, is sensitive to these issues, namely trade. Trade, especially this large-scale, but not only it, is very interested in the fact that the huge tonnage and values it operates are used for the economic benefit of these units, but also You can't hide it. With a certain humanistic approach to food. This law contains, in my opinion, bad content. The law itself points out that in Poland But not only that, because it's true that in other countries too, although I don't know their names, it's a waste of food. Yeah, that's right, there's a lot of nonchalanty areas around here that don't say food reconciliation. However, in general in Poland no one is interested in wasting this food, even for economic reasons. Food is generally the subject of various political speeches. In the past, it was almost the basis for them. Today, too, this is part of the assessment of governments when food prices are rising. So this is a very sensitive product. It's a food waste bill, and I propose that the law be called... oh, my God, I didn't take the food protection bill. And this title sets the whole axiology. Food protection is a task for all of us, participants in this chain, and above all, as the data shows, and actually data that we don't have... And this is another element to, I think, take into account in further work. Only in October, following Eurostat data from the European Union, will data on the size and places of food waste be known in Poland. It can already be assumed today, behind the Western countries, that most food is not protected or wasted, in the language of the law, in consumers That's 57%. Of course, it is also wasted in trade, probably in production, because it is such a second link. But you can also say: packaging, storage, transportation. And some objective issues: global trade must create and create places where this food is wasted, for example because of various obstacles, natural disasters, which, for example. will make it impossible for bananas transported from 4 000 km away to Poland. Also objective is the fact Maybe it's anecdotal I'm saying that there's always a surplus, and therefore there's always a possibility of wasting. This food protection should, in my opinion, be governed by the law, but it should only provide a framework for the activities of those institutions that I have been talking about, in this chain, including trade, but also for consumers. We should act in favour of a culture of consumption, which in Poland was once respected in times of crisis: bread was cut with the sign of the cross so that no slice of this bread marked with the holy sign would be destroyed. Come on. This law contains, as a result of my reservations in the Sejm, orders, in the form of a contract order, bans, also in the form of bans on contracts, but also penalties and charges reduced in the Sejm, praise for it, but contains them. There's also talk of inspection, there's talk of statistics, so there's talk of system, I'd say official, which doesn't correspond to what I'm proposing. So how would I see this bill? Of course, first of all, I would see her as an incentive from different backgrounds, including authorities, perhaps also as a support for this process by e.g. Citizens' funds. Why? Well, as long as there is a well-organized commercial distribution in Poland, perhaps other fields also, but I did not examine it for the purposes of this law, on the other hand, this consumer of this law, NGOs... Their level of organization, especially infrastructure, also because they are based on good will, which is probably not very high in Poland. Thus, there is no possibility of moving to different places for this law, sometimes moving huge amounts of tons of food for its proper distribution. There's another dangerous thing in this bill, too, in my opinion, that can cause... The fact is that this law has been amended in the Sejm so that the definition of this distributed food must comply with European Union rules and Polish regulations. And this must indeed be sanctioned by the various control bodies. But it says in particular that this is about food, let's face it, about the nearest time, about the best quality. In damaged packaging, perhaps with lower taste values. And here's the fear that this is the food of the second sort. I think you can use that concept here, not with people. And if there are any problems with the fact that this food will go to... 'Cause who's she supposed to go to? To the poorest, to the various communities enjoying collective nutrition. If it turns out that this food will cause phytosanitary repercussions or, God forbid, medical, it could mean the end of this system. It may turn out that citizens, when eating second-sort food, although good, recognize that they are themselves citizens, consumers of second-sort food. And that's the danger. Therefore, in my considerations, I would consider that any food, except, of course, the expiry of the term of validity, i.e. in the event of inadmissibility, passed on to people for consumption at any time, is as if an act which causes the act to work. One last thing. Well, there's a promotional problem. Mr. Senator Augustine... I don't know if he said that. For the reason that someone pays back this food, they can rightly put it in cost today, reduce taxes, not pay VAT. I propose other forms: that the institutions that deal with this conduct propaganda campaigns together or separately. What's more, I suggest that this food be marked with a health food mark, or that we protect our food and, above all, protect our food. In order to ensure that these institutions are also supported in some way. Example. Maybe the president's gonna throw a ball for institutions for which prestige means more than profit? Maybe outstanding athletes, maybe prominent cultural people, maybe Senator Augustine will finally initiate something like this in Pila? Anyway, you have to put an accent on culture, looking to the sky like that. Therefore, I propose I'm finishing up, Mrs. Marshal, because I always listen to you. In order to take these voices into account in further work and to change the nature of the law so that there is a culture of consumption, not an order or a ban on consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u246	Thank you, Senator. Jackie, she's the only woman you're afraid of. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Robert Mammothov made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Education Law and the Law on the financing of educational tasks. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1261, and the report of the Commission In print No 1261 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on National Defence on the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Education and the Law on the Financing of Educational Tasks. At the outset, maybe a few words of history. In 2000, the idea of setting up uniformed classes is born. The first class is created in 2001 and then the next class. They operate on the basis of the 2002 Regulation on pedagogical experiments and innovation. This idea is growing. The next stage is 2017. The Ministry of National Defence launches a pilot programme to support upper secondary schools leading up to certified military uniform classes. It should be made clear that uniform classes are not only classes supported by the Ministry of National Defence, with the patronage of MON, but also classes, let's call it firefighters, police classes. This idea is gaining momentum. And now we're dealing with, I'd call it... After recognizing the battle, after implementing it in a practical way, we are dealing with the continuation of this idea, namely the institutionalization of uniform classes led by the Ministry of National Defence. This law, which we are talking about, introduces troops of military preparation into the Polish education system. These are the branches that will implement a program similar to the one that currently executes uniformed, military classes, but already stabilized and described in the Law. How will this work in practice? The Act enters into force on 1 January 2020. At this point, the regulation will also enter into force in which the Minister for National Defence, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Education and Education, will define three main categories, namely: the training programme in classes, in military preparation units, organisation and form of classes and the conditions for carrying out practical activities. At the outset, the programme is intended to cover about 130 schools, with a target of 330 schools. By March 31, 2020 this is the first time By 31 March the school authority will apply to the Minister for National Defence for permission to open such a military preparation unit. This proposal will have to be evaluated by the curator and by the provincial military staff. Such troops... Until now, uniformed classes have been created in the number of about 120. The idea is to have at least one class working in each region where the supplemental command operates. These classes will carry out a programme to be drawn up. Program assumptions will be presented by the Ministry of National Defence. The Minister of National Defence will also supervise the military part of this programme, and What is also important, even very important It will finance this programme for its implementation. This idea will also be developed in the future by the fact that those who will be graduates of such classes will have certain, let's call it bonuses, i.e., as it is already in the case of uniformed classes, additional points in recruitment at military universities, as well as shortened preparatory service in the army. I hope that the Ministry will present in a more comprehensive way what such a young man can be encouraged to do in these classes. But right now, the interest in these classes is so great that... I think the institutionalization of this idea is very good, and it's a good thing that right now it's becoming a law. There's one more thing to mark. Such classes, such troops of military preparation will only be able to be established in secondary schools, i.e. as an assumption in technology and in high school. The programme itself will be implemented in classes II and III. And that's pretty much the idea of the idea itself, the content of this law in the most brief. How was the committee meeting? At the beginning, this idea and the principles of the bill were presented by ministers, Mr Maciej Kopcia, who represented the Minister of National Education, and Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz, on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence. The legislator introduced... well, maybe she didn't do so much, but she pointed out one minor flaw, but it wasn't like it was taken over by the senators. Then the discussion began, there were questions or comments. This discussion lasted quite long, over an hour, and was attended by Senators Kazimierz Wiatr, Jerzy Wcisła, Jan Żaryn, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Piotr Wach, Józef Zając and also by my person, Jerzy Czerwiński. After this hour, President Rafał the locksmith presented a proposal for a law without amendments. The members of the two committees agreed unanimously, the ratio of 11 to 0 votes. The Act is recommended by both committees to adopt without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u248	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. We have a representative of the Ministry of National Education, Minister Maciej Kopeć. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? There you go. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an extremely important law, important from the point of view of the education system, because many issues are ordered and at the same time important from the point of view of defence of the state. As you have heard, the introduction of this type of branch, i.e. the so-called. uniform classes took a long time, but recently, i.e. since 2017, these activities have accelerated, which is related to the pilot program that introduced the Ministry of National Defence. This piloting was a certain introduction to the curriculum, military education. We have to say that the introduction of this type of program was a major change, a novelty, and it just sort things out. . and issues related to the training itself, which is linked to the military, but also issues related to what is also important for those who have submitted this project, for Members, i.e. patriotic education, historical education as an important educational element. As the rapporteur said, the changes that have been introduced along with the reform of education into education law, i.e. changes in the article. 45, changed the location of pedagogical innovation and pedagogical experiment. The intention of the Minister of National Education was for experimentation and innovation to be re-introduced. The intention was for schools to be able to conduct innovative activities freely, so that there is no limit to such activities, so that it does not require the approval of the Minister of National Education each time. This kind of required a change, which was initiated by the Minister of National Defence, and accelerated the parliamentary project in some way. With regard to the issues that we are thus ordering, they concern the introduction into the law of the educational concept of the Military Preparation Division, but it is also important that the substantive part of military training remains the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, who is authorised to issue the relevant implementing act. What is also important in this project is that the substantive supervision of this training is the responsibility of the Minister of National Defence, i.e. how the programme implemented in such branches will be implemented practically, is the responsibility of the Minister. Another important thing is the certification of these branches, i.e. the decision whether such a branch is created, possibly if it does not meet the requirements, the withdrawal of such a decision, is also the responsibility of the Minister of National Defence. In other words, the Minister of National Defence is responsible for the quality and the manner in which training is carried out in such branches. Also in the reference, in the relevant provision, in the article. The 53th Law of "Educational Law', which concerns supervision, found such a record. As for the government's position on the project that I had the pleasure of presenting, the government supported this project. At the same time, the government's position states that this project should be supplemented by certain issues, such as supervision or the role of the Minister of National Defence. This project also allows for a number of other solutions, because it also allows for the transfer to the level of other regulations of extremely important issues, which also have a financial impact, i.e. allows to include in the framework curricula, i.e. in the framework curricula regulation, the hours that are devoted to the implementation of this programme. This also applies to the qualifications of persons who will carry out appropriate activities. It also combines what is important with educational subsidies, because together with the hours that will be carried out within this project, and it is expected that this is 180 hours implemented in the second and third classes of technical school and general high school... This will actually allow this funding to look in a different way as well. So, on the one hand, this funding is supported by the Minister of Defence, because some of the activities are conducted in military units, but on the other hand, the local government will receive financial support in the form of subsidies for the operation of this type of branch, as I said. It is important because so far it was either a course conducted with financial support from the Minister of Defence, either from the hours at the disposal of the school principal, or from hours under the programme, which additionally supported the local government or the authority running the school. However, it is also important now that these hours at the director's disposal, according to a philosophy enshrined in the framework teaching plans, are intended to develop additional interests of the student, i.e. they do not need to be devoted to conducting these classes. To conclude, I would like once again to all those who helped create this kind of solution, the Members who contributed this project, the Minister for National Defence, for their substantive comments, to the senators for the questions that we also tried to answer during the discussions at the Senate committees, to thank them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u250	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. He informs you that none of your senators have signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Maritime Safety Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1232, and the committee's report in print No 1232 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u251	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Law of 4 July 2019 amending the Law on Maritime Safety implements the provisions of the so-called law in Polish order. passenger directives. It is a directive on the registration of persons travelling on board passenger ships arriving at ports of the Member States of the Community or from ports of the Member States of the Community, a Directive on reporting formalities for ships entering or leaving ports of the Member States, a Directive on an inspection system for the safe operation of ro-ro passenger ships and high-speed passenger craft engaged in regular shipping, a Directive on safety rules and standards for passenger ships. During the committee's deliberations, the Minister here presented the bill. The Act raised no doubts, and therefore there was no discussion, no questions. The senators of the committee propose that the High House adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u252	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Anna Moscow with us, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u253	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, the senator has quite precisely presented this really short amendment, for which I thank you. Indeed, it is the implementation of the provisions of the Directives and does not give rise to any controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Curiosity is supposed to be unhealthy, but why is this date so precise? On 21 December 2019, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European There must be a reason for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u256	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u257	Yes... That's a good question. I can give you a hint. I'd appreciate it. Date of entry into force of the Directive... This is indeed related to the directive, but I cannot tell you exactly what it is to condition, what was the wording of the directive, whether it was a certain time, number of days, year. However, this is indeed related to the Directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u258	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. And we proceed with the review of item nine of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Ports and Seaports and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1247, and the committee's report in print No 1247 A. I would very much like to ask Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u259	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission dealt with this bill yesterday. The Act of 19 July 2019 amending the Law on ports and marinas and certain other laws aims to introduce in the legal acts governing the organisation and operation of ports mechanisms enabling the application in the national legal order of the provisions of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports. In addition, the Act aims to strengthen the position of port managers and maritime marinas and improve the functioning of ports. During the committee's deliberations, the Minister here presented the formal scope of the law quite precisely. During the committee meeting, two gentlemen representing the pilots entering the ports expressed their doubts. They pointed out that, according to their view, the amendments introduced by the Act would impose an additional burden on them in the form of obligations in the absence of a reduction in the financial burden associated with the maintenance of vessels, but these comments were not reflected in the proposed amendments. The Commission proposes that the High House adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Anybody want to ask that question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Anna Moscow with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few sentences about this law and a few sentences about piloting to clarify what these comments were about and how we explained them. This is an extremely important bill. I do not think that we need to explain not only the role of ports for the state budget, but also any other functions that the port has. I would also like to clarify some of the amendments that this law introduces, because they are extremely important. First of all, we enable the port to provide additional port services outside transhipments and passenger services, which actually extends port capacity. In addition, we are strengthening the competence of the Minister of Maritime Affairs to manage widely understood port areas, introducing an obligation to obtain the Minister's consent to acquire a dominant position in the entity that is the perpetual user of the property in the port. In addition, we extend our competence to property located in port areas in the case of lease and perpetual use. It is also a question of the right of pre-emption for MON-related organisational units in respect of real estate which are located within the borders of a seaport or in restricted areas. And I think it's a very important change. I'm sure you've heard about this change somewhere in the media. It refers to the so-called. The Red Way. We are currently introducing the possibility of qualifying the roads in the TEN-T network, i.e. access roads to the port, as national roads, which will allow for the transfer of funding of these roads from local governments to GDDKiA. And here is an example of the Red Way, because the burden of making the Red Way exceeds the possibilities of self-government. This change gives the possibility for GDDKiA to make such a road at this point. As regards this pilotage, I mentioned that the managing body of the port will be able to provide port services, including piloting services. This is such a change that apart from those who have provided these services so far, the port will also be able to provide them. It is a common model in Europe. There are also countries where only ports provide such services for security reasons and for greater competitiveness, but also for a larger package of services available to the port. This does not result in any revolution in the market or change in the privileges of pilots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, the senators may ask questions to the Minister. No questions. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! It is indeed, Minister, an important law, in particular the article. 2c − which indicates that the construction, modernisation and maintenance of infrastructure providing access to ports are financed by the State budget − and one of the new laws which concerns the possibility for GDDKiA to take over the financing of road investments accessing Polish ports. This is crucial for the development of ports, especially Gdańsk and Gdynia in the context of planned modernisation activities, and in particular the extension of the external port in Gdańsk or Gdynia. These are very important changes. It is a pity that it was only after 4 years of work of the Government of Law and Justice, because there was an opportunity at the very beginning of the term of office, when the Law on Ports and Seaports was amended in relation to the participation and supervision of representatives of local government in port companies and around-port companies. This could already be revised with regard to the financing of access roads. After all, the fact that the port in Gdynia has trouble connecting with the network of national roads through the Kwiatkowski route, which has been inefficient for many years, was already known. After all, at the end of the previous government's term, this case was already standing. And, despite the declaration made by one of the ministers of the Government of Law and Justice that this issue will be resolved, we face the proposed changes after 4 years. But I take it seriously, and I believe in good intentions in this case. Of course, we will be watching and checking how the road will be implemented and built in the future, especially the Red Way in Gdynia connecting the Tricity ring road with the port. And there is something to strive for and to try for, because for many years Polish ports have developed in an excellent way, reaching the highest transhipments in their history. Last year it was over 100 million tons. There'll be more this year, as we know. This is, of course, the result of investments in infrastructure many years ago and the development strategy of ports. I hope that this strategy will continue, because the economic situation is, but there are also many risks. Minister, there probably wasn't time... Perhaps at the committee meeting there were problems related to Poland's involvement in the construction of the Via Carpatia route, which will connect the Lithuanian port in Klaipeda with Thessaloniki. Analysts associated with the field of port logistics believe that it will hit the logistics facilities of the Tricity ports and that some of the cargo will go through the port in Klaipeda to Belarus or Ukraine and beyond, to the countries of southern Europe. The Roman maxim in translation is more or less that someone else is sowing and someone else is collecting. In this case, Poland is a sower of the European values of this transport corridor Via Carpatia, but the main beneficiary will be Lithuania and the port in Klaipeda, as well as the port in Thessaloniki or in Constance. All the more important is that we start building and expanding access roads to Polish ports as soon as possible. This is so that they can compete with Russian or Lithuanian ports, which already have guaranteed availability through the Via Carpatia route. And I'll get back to the Red Road issue. I, from this speaker, have repeatedly called for the inclusion in the budget of the state of financing of this road, because it was known that Gdynia is not able, the Gdynia government is unable to manage the construction of this road. Until recently, 3 months ago, I received a reply from the Minister of Infrastructure, that this is Gdynia's problem, and the Kwiatkowski route, which at the moment is the only access route to the port in Gdynia, is the route basically sufficient, district of course, but sufficient, and somehow more manageable. The problem is on the government's side. What's changed in three months? I hope that the government has grown to this point and knows that the reality is that without the involvement of the State Treasury, without the commitment of the state budget, it is impossible to talk about the development of the maritime economy, the development of the port in Gdynia and the improvement of the quality of life of the inhabitants. And I have a deep faith that this is exactly what will happen, that after the adoption of this law, the first initiative on road construction by GDDKiA will be to launch an investment process related to the construction of the Red Road in Gdynia. This will be a measure of the credibility of this presentation and this change, an important, important one, because the competition is not asleep, as I mentioned earlier, I am talking about Via Carpatia and the availability of ports in Lithuania or Russia. We will support this bill, but our intentions will be checked by action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u264	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1226 and the report of the committee In print No 1226 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Tadeusz Kopcia, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u265	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act on the amendment of the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection adopted by the Sejm on 4 July 2019 and some other laws. The Act amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and certain other laws aims, first, to bring national law into line with the provisions of Regulation No 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unjustified geo-blocking and other forms of discrimination against customers on grounds of nationality, residence or place of business in the internal market. The purpose of this geoblocking regulation is to ensure that consumers, regardless of their nationality or place of residence or business in the European Union, better access to goods and services in the single market by preventing direct and indirect discrimination in cross-border e-commerce, when purchasing online and when travelling to other Member States for the purpose of acquiring goods or using services. The main objective of this regulation is also to enable entrepreneurs to expand their business to new markets and to be interested in their offer of new customers. Secondly, it is about enabling the President of the Competition and Consumer Office to be more flexible in relation to the state of the current internal structure of the office, in particular with regard to delegations. Currently, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is composed of a headquarters in Warsaw, laboratories supervised by the President of the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection and 9 delegations with legally defined offices. This amendment involves changes in the structure of the OKAiK itself. First of all, the delegation in Warsaw is liquidated and the duties of this delegation will be taken over by the headquarters and by delegations in the field. This amendment is an amendment applicable to similar institutions, such as the Electronic Communications Office or the Civil Aviation Authority. The Act will remove the records that refer to the seat or the operating principle of the UOKiK. These issues will be governed by the Statute or by the Staff Regulations. Moreover, according to the amendment, each voivodeship will have its representative in the National Council of Consumer Ombudsmans. Now, as you know, these spokespersons are 9. This number will be increased to 16. Each voivodship will have its representative, but this will not increase budget costs. Thirdly, this law aims to improve the effectiveness of detecting infringements of the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection by extending the access of the President of the Office to legally protected secrets, such as fiscal secrecy in proceedings under the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and the Act on the Prevention of the unfair exploitation of contractual advantages in trade in agricultural and food products, as well as banking secrecy in the case of the second of these laws. Finally, fourthly, it is about adapting the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Competition and Consumer Affairs and the Act on the Prevention of Unfair Use of Contractual Advantages in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products to the current legal situation. During the committee meeting Mr Holeksa very detailed I'm doing it in a nutshell. He discussed the principles of the law. You asked the details of Senator Augustine. He asked, among others. the removal of delegations, whether there will be exemptions in connection with this liquidation. Mr President replied that all the staff employed in delegations would be employed in the UOKiK, in the headquarters or in other delegations. The senator asked for an increase from 9 to 16 members of the Board of Advocates to whom they were called. The answer was that, of course, as so far, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is calling them. Thank you very much. The Commission, of course, requests that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u266	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Is that the question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Mr Marek Niecciał, was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the President like to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I would add here how this translates into a practical solution. It's about blocking. Let's imagine we want to buy something in Spain. So far it could have been that, as we bought, our card was recognized, that it was displayed in Poland, and we simply could not buy this product. Now, according to the EU solutions that we are implementing, it is simply forbidden. That's what the first part of the bill is about. The second part already applies to the organizational-compensatory UOKiK plot, internal. I'm going to give you an example of consumer spokespersons. We've got about 360 of them. So far, as the senator has said, there have been nine spokespersons on the board. They were once appointed by the President on the basis of what the Director of Delegation suggested. It's been a long time since we've had an election of spokespersons. The representatives of the region concerned shall be elected by the territorially sub-delegated representatives of the delegation concerned. The fact is that there are times when they are surprised because someone who has been on the board for a very long time Most of the time, it was in big cities. It's not now, because the spokesperson won from another center. So there's kind of an increase in representativeness here. Now there will be 16 of them, so every voivodeship will have its representative on the council. We did it as if on a bookmark, so it wasn't like the term was over and everybody was changing. The way we do it, the election is halfway through the lineup. So that here is an internal solution, but related to the changes that are being made. Here too, I assure you. On the delegations It's not about liquidation, it's about... Well, it was like if we wanted to set up a delegation like this. In Rzeszow, we'd have to change the bill. Yes? And now, in fact, it is enough that we find competent employees in Rzeszow and, of course, after agreement with the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister, we already have the opportunity to create such a delegation. Without having to change the bill, which takes some time. So that this UOKiK structure in this area can be more flexible. It is also the case that, when the contract advantage law came into force, for the first time we gave all this competence not to Warsaw, but to one of the delegations, but to a delegation in Bydgoszcz. So it is that we want it not only in Warsaw, but also in the field, if conditions Let's call it The local and wage institutions allow these competences to be expanded there. All the more so because when it comes to other towns, there is a smaller rotation of staff, so it is really beneficial for the office and administration. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u269	High Senate! Meeting of the Environment Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other acts of "Senatian printing No 1260 " will take place tomorrow, 1 August, at 8.50 p.m. in room No 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-31-senat-83-1.u270	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 12]]
