ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Rafal Weber and Mr Kristian Jarubas to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Krystian Jarubas. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u2	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media - hour. 10. The Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team will meet today - at 10 a.m. 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Wojciech Szarama, the Law and Justice Club, ask a question about the costs of mountain rescue. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Each climbing is subject to a higher or greater risk of calling for aid. We don't necessarily have to undergo a major accident. It's gonna get dark, cold or foggy, and we're gonna lose our way, and even though it's actually nothing. We didn't get hurt, we're gonna need rescue support. Poland is the only country in Europe where mountain rescue performed by GOPR, TOPR is completely free of charge. The number of GOPR calls to tourists that have occurred in Poland in recent years presents an undoubted opportunity to reflect on the appropriateness of introducing solutions similar to those in our neighbours, in neighbouring countries such as the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but it is worth analysing in the context of the many cases we have been informed about through the media, such as the arrival of tourists on the trail in the flip-flops themselves. Or a deliberate way out of the designated path, or a route. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether efforts are being made to introduce such rules to a similar extent in our country, suggesting solutions in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u5	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! The issue of saving people in the Polish mountains is governed by the Act of 18 August 2011 on safety and rescue in the mountains and on organized ski areas. The provisions of this law have decided on a mountain rescue model in Poland - and earlier there has been a discussion on this subject, and this discussion comes back every now and then, the Member noticed this - and therefore, how it was financed. In accordance with the rules, security in the mountains is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. This task is carried out, among others. to finance mountain rescue. On the basis of the commissioned public tasks of GOPR and TOPR, they maintain a state of readiness for mountain rescue by providing regular mountain rescue services. The idea of this model is that people who have suffered an accident or are at risk of losing their lives or health in the mountains can count on immediate assistance 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In the world, there are different models of funding for mountain rescue in Europe, and the responsibility for this varies between institutions and citizens. This is determined by geographical conditions - the formation and sculpture of the area - political, economic, financial and social. Therefore, social expectations for mountain rescue are also different in terms of payment for rescue operations in mountain areas and accident insurance amounts. Indeed. in Switzerland, the mountain rescue financing system is mainly based on insurance. In practice, it is that the cost of rescue operations, including, for example, the use of a helicopter for search operations shall be covered by insurance companies which offer appropriate insurance policies to persons engaged in mountain tourism and skiing. An uninsured or over-insured person shall cover the costs of rescue operations from his own funds. Using such a model in Poland one might fear that mountain tourism would be unavailable or less accessible to people with lower incomes, for children, for young people, for pensioners, and the Polish government wants everyone to have equal access to our beautiful mountains and help received when something dangerous happens, something unexpected. In some European countries, e.g. in Slovakia or Italy, rescue operations are carried out by state units. The costs of maintaining the rescue readiness of these entities are borne by the state budget and the tourist is obliged to cover the costs of rescue operations directly related to rescue operations. Although there is no compulsory insurance, the universality of insurance can also be observed in these cases because of the obligation to pay. It should not be forgotten that mountain hiking trails are closed in Slovakia for winter. On the one hand, this limits the number of accidents, but on the other hand gives insurers the possibility not to pay for those measures which have been taken in the prohibited area. In the event of a breach of the prohibition, the payment obligation rests with the rescued and the enforcement of that obligation is on the national budget unit, which represents an additional cost. We do not want to close trails, except when weather conditions prevent them from being used. We focus on educational activities and information to tourists about possible threats, e.g. through avalanche messages. I would like to focus on Polish solutions. The legislator has not decided to introduce provisions setting out the obligation for rescuers to bear the cost of rescue shares. In Poland, state services were not set up to carry out mountain rescue, as Slovakia or Italy did, but the legislator envisaged entrusting these tasks to entities who would obtain the permission of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to carry out mountain rescue. Two well-deserved, experienced NGOs have this agreement: Mountain Voluntary Emergency and Tatra Voluntary Emergency Service. Within the framework of the grant agreements concluded annually, in addition to maintaining rescue readiness, organising and providing training for mountain rescuers, developing and making available avalanche messages, maintaining a rescue helicopter and aero-technical crew, rescue operations are financed. I don't know if I'm gonna have enough time, or maybe in the second part, I'm gonna give you the amounts and the statistics involved. Now I would just like to add that, at the stage of the analysis carried out in the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, it was considered and also returned in various terms during the work - I myself witnessed the return of this thread for the last few term - the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Possible implementation of other systems has been considered. We have often talked about this with representatives of rescue organizations. Each of the accepted models for financing rescue shares have both disadvantages and advantages. The issue of introducing payment for rescue operations in the mountains should be looked at not only from the financial side. The worst thing would be if people who need help and who cannot afford to buy adequate insurance did not call for emergency services for economic reasons. During the existence of organizations saving the lives and health of tourists in the Polish mountains, i.e. for more than 100 years, there has never been a requirement for payment for assistance. As in the rest of our country, in a situation of life and health threat, every citizen, in any other oppression, in other places throughout the territory of Poland, has the right to receive free assistance from the State, from the relevant services. The Polish state is fulfilling this constitutional obligation to its citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u7	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask an additional question, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u8	In the second part of the question, I would like to ask you about the costs associated with GOPR shares, TOPR shares, especially those most difficult operations with helicopters, and possible statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Minister of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, once again responds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First, maybe the number of rescue actions and expeditions in the Polish mountains for 2018, because this is the nearest period. That was 2069. I am thinking about rescue operations and expeditions carried out by both NGOs, both associations - GOPR and TOPR. With the use of a helicopter such expeditions were 216. The number of persons assisted in 2018 is 2253. These numbers do not include ski slopes, because I will remind you that the owner of these slopes is primarily responsible for the safety on ski slopes. Of course, it is also supported by the police in the area of security, but this is due to its separate tasks, from the Police Act. As regards the amounts of grants, in 2018 the Commission received a request from the Commission for information on the GOPR received PLN 8 785,000, while TOPR received PLN 6 668,000. Over the past years, this has evolved in a similar dimension, e.g. in 2013 GOPR received PLN 7 375 000, in 2015 - PLN 7 521 000. Let me remind you that in 2018 this number amounts to PLN 8 785 000, in 2017 - PLN 8 024 000. These amounts increase slightly, but remain at a similar level as regards the size row. It is the same with regard to the TOPR. In 2013 it was slightly larger - PLN 7 065 000. Then, in 2015 - smaller, because 5 842 000 PLN etc. I don't want to mention all the dates anymore, because we don't have time. As far as the total amounts are concerned, in 2018 an amount of PLN 14 500 000 was planned in the Budget Act for both rescue organisations for mountain rescue. For 2019 this amount is slightly larger - 16 198 PLN 000. I might add that as far as the salaries of mountain rescuers are concerned, they have been in place for a long time, so to speak, have not been increased. We decided to increase this salary by PLN 400 per job in 2018 and by another PLN 400 per job since January this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe one more sentence of summary. The condition of both rescue organisations is good in our view, and cooperation with the state, with the government is also very partnering and these organizations according to their tradition, experience, dedication and empathy towards the needy, are doing very well with their responsibilities. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Gabriel Lenartowicz, Stanisław Gawłowski and Marek Sowa from the Civic Platform club ask a question about stopping the selection of applications and the further functioning of the "Clean Air." The first question is asked by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With such an important program, Clean Air is like a song whose words say something like this: The fact that there is culture is here is witnessed by a cultural house. The fact that PiS and the PiS government are seriously concerned with clean air protection is to be provided by the Prime Minister's representative, a suto paid in the national environmental fund. The big announcement of the programme, for which PLN 106 billion is to be allocated, shows that in this year's budget, including all the money you have, there is 180 million for the thermomodernization programme, in 16 voivodeship funds, in which a contract has recently been signed, there is 875 million for grants and 185 million for loans. In the national fund itself, apart from EU funds, and those which are at the disposal of the voivodship funds - EU funds already obtained by the government of the Platform - is similar, you have nothing. That is, in total, estimated approx. PLN 1 billion. The Clean Air programme is to be implemented within 10 years. 106 billion - it's easy to calculate that it's 10 billion a year. At this rate of implementation that you have designed in this budget - less than 1 billion - you will be implementing this programme for 100 years. Fortunately, there are elections on the way, and fortunately, I am convinced that in the autumn you will lose your power and that the future government will take the declarations and matters related to air protection seriously. That's what we all know in Poland. Several tens of thousands of Poles die annually from complications resulting from bad air quality. And this is an extremely serious matter. I want to ask. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You stopped the project...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Małgorzata Golińska, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u14	...and hung up. Minister, how much money do you have booked? For how many applications have already been made, for what amounts?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u15	Mr President, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u16	But, Marshal, this is a matter of life for Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u17	Well, here you go, now... You're about to have an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u18	Don't smile. Just hold on.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u19	I'm smiling because everyone's allowed to dream, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u20	Oh, you're dreaming. Congratulations on your dreams.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u21	No, no, I congratulate you on your dreams.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u22	Stay in those clouds of dreams. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u23	Sir, or you're done...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u24	I know...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u25	...or I'm taking your time...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u26	How much money do you have for that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u27	Please, Minister Małgorzata Golińska, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are at the point: current questions, but I have the impression that a new point has come up with: political attacks, current attacks. Well, that's the privilege of Members. [[Answer me.]] The second digression, by the way. It is funny that accusations about insufficient action in the field of the fight for clean air are being made by Members of the Civic Platform, of which we already know that there has been insufficient action in your governments, as the European Court has pointed out. It's worth remembering. And back to the questions. How many proposals have been adopted, what amounts are involved, have contracts already been concluded and how much money have we got? 25 633 applications were submitted by the end of 2018. The amounts that our citizens are applying for under grants are 403 million, under loans of 140 million, about. So far, by the end of December, over 100 contracts have been signed for the total amount of 1 million in voivodship funds in Gdańsk, Kielce, Olsztyn, Toruń, Warsaw, Wrocław and Zielona Góra. As far as funding and quotas are concerned. The amounts determined on the basis of the needs reported by the voivodship environmental funds and in the national fund in the financial plan in Part A of the grants, in the third position - in the total amount of billion 700 - are included 875 million for grants, while in Part B of the financial plan under heading 5, the loan, entitled. Feedback funding for environmental protection and water management - a total amount of almost 1 billion or 1.5 billion is included in the amount of 185 million for clean air loans. And I think that's all you asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Marek Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u30	Minister! Then let's move to one of the environmental funds in Krakow so you can have a full reconnaissance. In 2016 grants for the replacement of boilers were PLN 65 million and 20 million. What is the budget of the Regional Environmental Fund for 2019? 5 million for grants, 30 million for loans. This is reality. Of course, we'll see how you're gonna build it when you're wired, or you're gonna wire the money you're talking about, out of this 800 million zloty. Over 2600 applications submitted under the "Clean Air" programme, considered in 2018 - zero. Voivodeship environmental funds - you should know this very well - are not prepared for mass customer service at all. They've always done nothing but institutional support. Their partners were local government units, and they were also entrepreneurs. And if it was already necessary to cooperate with an individual client, it was usually the choice of the operator who served [[♪ The bell ♪]] and provided fully cleared requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u31	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u32	How, then, are you going to implement this programme?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u33	Thank you very much. Ms Małgorzata Golińska once again provides the answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Actually, it's hard to answer that question. It was more of a, I don't know, historical tour... [[These are facts.]] It was about what happened in the days of the Civic Platform in one of the funds. However, since we are talking about the programme, I will take the opportunity to mention that the legal basis for our actions is the Environmental Law, which regulates the functioning and principles of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, including the scope of funding. The fund shall be planned in accordance with the Regulation of the Minister of Finance for the financial year in question. The planned sources of funding for the programme are the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the resources to be obtained from environmental charges, additionally the State budget for the thermomodernisation allowance in personal income tax, resources from the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds and funds from the European Union, from a new financial perspective. So if you're asking how we're going to do this, this is where I gave you... [[Please year 2019...]] [[And 10 billion, Minister?]] ...the legal basis of our actions, I gave the sources of funding to the programme, earlier I indicated how much has been reserved and why in such quantities on which it was based... I've given you information on how many applications have been submitted, how many contracts have been signed and what amounts have been made. [[And why were no contracts signed in Małopolska?]] For a moment, the media wondered why applications were stopped and then resumed. It is worth noting that this interruption resulted from the entry into force of the Act of 9 November 2018 amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and resulting from the need to adapt the scheme. The renewal took place on 21 January 2019. It's been in effect since January 1. What key changes have been made? As a result of the introduction of a new tax credit into the legal system, so-called. The scheme amends the rules on the calculation of grants, extends the group of beneficiaries to individuals [[♪ The bell ♪]] which have ownership rights or are co-owners of a single-family building, a provision on eligible costs has been added, specifying that the costs incurred on the project at the premises which were separated after 1 January 2019 are eligible under the maximum cost value of the...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: ...and a few other changes I'd be happy to inform you about in writing. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Maciej Masłowski and Paweł Szramka from the Kukiz club15. The question concerns the location of the nuclear power plant in Poland. The first question is asked by Maciej Masłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u36	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I think we will agree that a nuclear power plant in Poland is needed and we are looking forward to this very much, but the problem that has come to our attention is how long this whole thing has been going on. A long time ago, a company was established. That's where the people on the board were hired, the employees. They received a very large salary and searched for a location. They searched, they searched and they couldn't find it. We've got about three locations pre-arranged, then nothing. According to the information I have, it was so that some people received a salary of up to 50,000. PLN per month. There were dozens of these people - I am talking about the board - that is, one can say that almost PLN 1 million was spent on this monthly, much more than PLN 0.5 million. Then the power changed, and that's all... So for starters, my questions are: How long have you been looking for this place? How much money has been spent on this from the state budget so far? What kind of work did these people do? I'd like to know how much those people have actually made, how much it's already cost us for this moment. You continue with Mr Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u37	Minister! We also want to ask if we are even sure when and whether this nuclear power plant will be built, because there are a lot of different opinions in the media. What changes occurred in this matter after the Law and Justice took over? We will ask for detailed written replies, including information about the employees in the company and the payroll of these people, of course since the start of the company's existence, because we know that a lot of money has already been earmarked for this purpose, but for the moment there are no effects, at least in public space, because we do not even know where this power plant will be located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u38	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Skobel corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The plans for Poland's energy policy by 2040 include the construction of two nuclear power plants with a capacity of 6 The commissioning of the first plant block is planned for 2033 at the latest. The following blocks will be returned gradually and the last block will be returned in 2043. It has not yet been decided whether the plants will be three-blocked or one will be two-blocked and the other will be four-blocked. In addition, Poland's energy policy until 2040 suggested the potential location of the power plant in the central part of Poland, i.e. in the vicinity of Belchatov. PGF1 was established for the construction of the first nuclear power plant. The programme of construction of the first Polish nuclear power plant is currently focused on carrying out localization and environmental research until the preparation of a report on the environmental impact of the project and the location report and the implementation of related, necessary actions resulting from national regulations and requirements, guidelines of the International Atomic Energy Agency. The programme's work is carried out on four projects. The first project concerns the carrying out of studies and the preparation of a report on environmental impact and location report. The second project includes the preparation of analyses and studies on new reports. The third project will provide information on the accompanying infrastructure. On the other hand, the fourth project includes the implementation of an integrated management system, with a project on research and preparation of a report on environmental impact and location report being a basic project and the results of the other two analytical projects being used as input information for the preparation of these reports. The project for the implementation of the integrated management system shall be implemented in accordance with the requirements of the IAEA. Research is conducted by PGE EJ 1 with the main participation of the contractor of the research programme, i.e. Elbis sp. z o.o., which is in the Capital Group of PGE SA. In 2018, research results were obtained for the development of a report on environmental impact in the field of land and sea natural inventory, geological research, archaeological inventory and field seismic works in the context of deep geophysical research. The results of research and targeted studies of all projects will be used to carry out analyses and simulations for the main products, such as the two reports mentioned. At the same time, in order to complete research paths: natural inventory on land and sea, geological studies are developed in the form of final and valorization reports. In the field of localization research, some field studies will continue until the completion of the localization report. As part of the activities aimed at drawing up the environmental impact report and the location report, a technical dialogue is planned with potential contractors of these reports and then launching the purchasing procedure in the first half of 2019. In addition, the company continues its cooperation with PGE Renewable Energy in the framework of the construction of a nuclear power plant and the construction project in the Baltic Sea of wind farms and offshore and land connection infrastructure. The company prepared and submitted applications to the Maritime Office in Gdynia for permission to set up and maintain cables and pipelines for the cooling system of the nuclear power plant in the territorial sea area for the location of Lubiatowo-Kopalino and the location of Żarnowiec for a period of 35 years in order to secure the area under the infrastructure of the nuclear power plant. At the same time, the company prepared and submitted comments to the draft maritime spatial planning plan in agreement with PGO and PGE SA in order to secure the area for the location of the nuclear power plant infrastructure in the maritime part and the local spatial planning plan of the areas located in the geodetic areas of Słaszewo, Jackowo in the municipality of Choczewo, together with a forecast of the environmental impact of the plan prepared by the municipality Choczewo. The company carries out many activities in the field of corporate social responsibility. Between 2015 and 2018, she co-financed projects worth a total of 7200 thousand. zł. Between 2010 and 2017 the total value incurred by PGE EJ 1 investment expenditure, expenditure amounted to about PLN 372 million, including investment expenditure - 219 million, costs generating expenditure - PLN 153 million. As regards the remuneration of the members of the statutory bodies of the company, I kindly inform you that resolutions laying down the rules for the remuneration of these members are included in the Public Information Bulletin of the Ministry of Energy, where they can be consulted. The remuneration of the members of the Management Board has been set at a level not exceeding eight times this dimension because of the fact that the level of remuneration in addition to personal data [[♪ The bell ♪]] such as the name and profession is a matter of privacy and information to the extent requested has not been given to the Ministry of Energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Paweł Szramka asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u41	Thank you very much, Minister, for this information. Surely, to some extent, this has clarified the whole situation, but we would like to ask, because it has been going on for some years, what is your personal assessment, or at this point in time, have these years been well used up to now, or are we ahead of the plan, or are we a little late? And then there's Mr Butterwski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u42	Minister, we've been working on this for years. I remember old media reports on 2020, 2025, today the Minister talks about 2033. I understand that this is a big investment and maybe now it will happen within 14 years, but - as my colleague asked - did the time we have already spent and the resources for it, because you talked about many reports, about the work done, have been well spent and was it profitable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Skobel is again responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as I'm concerned, here's what I'm going to say. Has everything been used properly? In the part in which the works were carried out - yes, while there is a time space, which certainly stopped this project, however you look at it. Today, we are in a situation where in Poland's energy policy until 2040, we have included this element. We've got the right... It goes into the energy balance, it goes into nuclear energy. We have indicated how much of this energy is, how much is to be produced, at what stage is the energy policy of Poland, because this is the answer to the question also in relation to the reality of the implementation of this program finally to the Polish energy. By 15 January, comments were submitted on Poland's energy policy until 2040. These comments are being analysed at the moment. After these analyses have been completed and even after additional consultations, which are, seem necessary, with individual groups in the field of renewable energy, for example, there will be a closed project of political energy, energy of Poland until 2040 and then, at the closure of this policy, taking nuclear power plants into account of this power, which I mentioned earlier, we will have the certainty and green light to start this process physically, already in a document accepted by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u45	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Mieczysław Kasprzak and Jan Łopata from the club of the Polish People's Party ask questions about irregularities in KGHM Polska Miedź SA. First, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, we wanted to ask about the situation of one of the largest Polish companies and one of the largest producers of copper and silver in the world. Well, the situation in this company has been worrying for some time. It's 2017. Then the investigators saw irregularities in the large investment of Huta Copper Głogów. Four people heard the charges. The damage, as it was estimated then, is not less than PLN 33 million. In mid 2018 CBA officers held six people, entrepreneurs and employees of KGHM Polska Miedź. According to investigators, the company lost over PLN 4 million on shipments of counterfeit copper scrap. A year goes by, there are more reports of regularity. The media shall report possible losses related to the further functioning of KGHM. We have a question regarding the above reports, and we have addressed this question to the Prime Minister. Did the cases we're asking you about have any finals in court? What is the effect of investigative activities concerning the years 2017 to 2018? Has the prosecution been informed after these irregularities have been detected? Does the State's services adequately protect the interests of the State in relation to the above? Because this is a company of the Treasury and the interests of the state should be protected. In view of the above, do these many irregularities [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the interest of the state properly protected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hernand, Deputy Attorney General, responds. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the Member's question about these three threads. About what the D.A.'s office did. The first procedure, which is included in this question, concerns the investigation of the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Wrocław, which is conducted against seven suspects. This proceeding was initiated on 21 October 2015 following a notification submitted by the Internal Security Agency, a delegation in Wrocław which covered events taking place between 1 May 2010 and 30 June 2015. The time limit for this proceeding is extended until 26 April 2019 and hopefully by that date this investigation will be terminated by referring the indictment to the court. All I can tell you is that the suspects in this case are the employees of the consortium of companies that cooperated with KGHM Polska Miedź. Those people were accused of committing crimes under the Art. 286 § 1 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. § 294 § 1 Penal Code and 13 § 1 Criminal Code in conjunction with Article. 286 § 1 of the Penal Code, in conjunction with Article. Article 294 (1) of the Criminal Code. In translation: it is a fraud of great value and attempted fraud. This criminal action consisted in bringing KGHM Polska Miedź to a negative regulation with property of 35 980 thousand. PLN 144 304 945. The essence of this crime - in view of the stage of the investigation, I can only say very generally - concerns the purchase of copper concentrate installations to such an extent that the adverse parameters of the offered installation were concealed from the victim and there was no guarantee of the possibility of increasing the offered parameters of the installation, and it is not true that the unit energy consumption ratio is stated, so that's the first question. In response to the second part of the inquiry: the District Prosecutor's Office in Legnica conducts an investigation initiated on 8 February 2018 following a notification submitted by the Central Anti-corruption Office, a delegation in Lublin. There are six suspects in this case. In relation to four persons, the court applied a temporary arrest, and two persons were subject to free prevention measures. Legal qualifications accepted by the prosecutor in this proceedings are 258 § 1 of the Penal Code, 296a § 2 Criminal Code and Art. 286 § 1 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. Article 294 (1) of the Criminal Code. The alleged criminal incidents took place between May 2017 and March 2018. Like the Member said: fraud was done when you adopted the product you mentioned in terms of its quality. I'm not gonna say it again. But this procedure also concerns the acceptance of property benefits and has now been established in the course of the proceedings, the benefits of 54 thousand were disclosed in the course of the investigation, and the value of the promised benefit is 45 thousand, that is so-called. management corruption, to put it simply. The damage caused, according to the prosecutor, as a result of these criminal actions, is exactly 4,756, 178,58 zł. In view of the nature of this procedure, I would not like to give you details of the persons who are covered by these allegations, for obvious reasons, on the basis of their development. To answer the third question, the District Attorney's Office in Legnica is conducting an investigation. This investigation was as if two-trackly implemented as a result of the notification of the offence notified on 24 January by the director of the internal control department of KGHM Polska Miedź SA and as a result of the press release which appeared in the media. In this press release, ladies and gentlemen, there is an amount of PLN 3 million that you have mentioned. As of today, i.e. from the information that the prosecutor obtained as a result of the report of the crime, the alleged amount of damage - remember that this is the stage of the investigation - [[♪ The bell ♪]] is PLN 436 853. It's about concluding inappropriate contracts and settling a business trip that didn't take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u49	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Jan Łopa, also by the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear District Attorney, Our questions are of course the result of media publications, but also the concern for the future of this great company. Let's remind you: over 34,000. employees, nearly 32% of the Treasury shareholder, the sixth producer of copper, and the fourth in terms of resources. And maybe it's worth talking about history: it's been 70 years of KGHM. But the question is also a little historical, it concerns the year 2017, and the answer was not in this calculation of irregularities. Namely, I would like to ask about the consequences of a suspension furnace failure, because it was called a technological device for 2.5 billion PLN, and the consequences of almost a month's stop is 430 million revenue for the company. I want to ask you about personal, personal consequences, because there have been comments about structural errors, while others are talking about passion for production volume, which is also [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is a human error and consequently - the creation of a hang that got hit and destroyed the boiler. Will the prosecution proceedings continue, as we hear, for nine years to clarify this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hernand again corresponds to the Deputy Attorney General. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u52	Mr President, I understand your concern as much as possible. On the other hand, in this question, which was addressed to the Prime Minister, which I answer on behalf of the Minister for Justice of the Prosecutor General, you did not ask that question. Surely, if necessary, such information will be given to you in writing, whether this particular event has been classified by the prosecutor as an economic activity or putting workers at risk. And as for the personal consequences, if you'll excuse me, the D.A. is dealing with this, in terms of personal consequences, when he makes an accusation or not. [[That's it.]] However, to the rest, this does not fall within his competence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u53	I understand that we understand each other, and we ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u54	Thank you very much, I bow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. District Attorney. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Zbigniew Gryglas, Jan Duda, Barbara Bartus, Arkadiusz Mularczyk and Józef Leśniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask about the start of the investment of the railway line from Krakow to Zakopane and New Sącz. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is implementing many investments of strategic importance for the economy of our country, such as the Central Communication Port, the Vistula mine excavation or the tunnel in Świnoujście. My question concerns the start of another big investment of this type - a new railway line from Kraków to Zakopane and Nowa Sącz. This line is part of the European TEN-T rail infrastructure. This is the largest new line since 1989 in the history of the Polish railway industry. The existing connections still remember the Austrian-Hungarian times. In view of the poor state of infrastructure and many speed restrictions on this route, the journey and freight transport time has so far been very long, at an unacceptable level. It should be emphasized that Zakopane is the winter capital of Poland, so access to this place is very important, and Nowy Sącz is in turn a vibrant economic centre, the seat of many national companies of European and even global scope. What social and economic benefits will our country and, above all, Podhale and the New Court of Justice become in connection with this investment? Please state such specific benefits, the concrete effects of this investment. Why was the investment needed in our country not carried out by previous governments in previous terms? Can we in this case talk about abandoning the investment that is so important for the inhabitants and the economy of our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u57	Thank you very much. The answer is given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Mikołaj Wild. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The floor of Piebello, because this investment is about, is really an investment that the inhabitants of the region have been waiting for since, you can say, Austro-Hungary, because already in 2018, 1918 the first expectations were formulated, the first plans consisting of a new connection between Nowy Sącz and Kraków. And that's what's happening today. On 7 January a contract was signed with the contractor of the project documentation. It is an investment which aims, on the one hand, to actually, as it was said, to bring Zakopane closer, because the time of arrival that will ensure, is 2 hours, a time less than 2 hours from Krakow to Zakopane and a time shorter than an hour from Krakow to New Sącz. This means, if added to this, to include it in the plans to expand the railway network and upgrade related to the Central Communication Port, that we will reach Zakopane within 3 hours, 3.5 hours. We'll get to New Sausage in a little more than two and a half hours. This is a complete change. This is a complete change in the use of rail transport. This is a clear point in the development plans adopted by the transport development strategy that is now being worked on, which the government is currently working on. The very strong emphasis of this strategy is not only on collective transport, but also on rail transport in particular. As far as the reasons for lying on the shelf of this project are concerned, I think there are two. The first is financial issues. This is a project that involves significant expenditure, which you just have to have the courage to bear. The second point is a paradigm, which so far, can be said, has been adopted, i.e. promoting more individual transport, promoting road transport. Today we're smarter because we know that collective transport has a future, we know that railroads have a future, and we put our money on the railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Gryglas will also ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you to present the Ministry's plans for further such investments. Do you have any more plans? Does the Ministry plan to restore certain sections of routes that have been closed down in the past? And I will also ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u61	Thank you. Minister! We were very concerned about the fact that for almost a year there was turbulence in terms of the choice of the contractor to prepare the project, but fortunately we already know that there was a choice of this contractor after almost a year of cancellations. And now I have a question, because it is a strategic investment for the whole Małopolska, for Poland, but also especially for the Sądecczyzna. It so happens that today's voivodship authorities appreciate this investment very positively. I think it is very important that the government cooperates with the local government of Małopolska voivodship, because a number of works that will be carried out in connection with this line will also involve infrastructure, which will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] around this investment, i.e. parking lots, access roads. So that I think, Minister, that it is worth taking the initiative here, to attend the Marshal of Małopolska Voivodship and to take full cooperation in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Mikołaj Wild again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start at the end. Indeed, the transport system does not exist in a vacuum and we cannot imagine the implementation of this investment without close cooperation with the local government, in particular with the local government. Here it is really the voivodship that bears the responsibility that the line should not be excluded from the economic life of the voivodship, but was included in this ecosystem. So here we are really hoping for this cooperation. We are convinced that for the benefit of the inhabitants of Małopolska and Sądecczyn, this cooperation will be intensive and effective. As far as the next steps are concerned, it is indeed a difficult investment. The number of stakeholders involved in its implementation has really caused the fight to be able to implement this investment. On 7 January this year, as I said, a contract was concluded for the preparation of the project documentation. The next stage is the construction of a new line Podłęże - Szczyrzyc and modernization of the line Chabówka - Nowy Sącz. During this second stage modernization works are planned on the Chabówka - Nowy Sącz line. The cost will be PLN 3 billion. The implementation phase is foreseen for the period 2020 to 2023. Finally, the third stage, which is foreseen in the new EU perspective, is the construction of a new line of Podłęże - Szczyrzyc - Tymbark/Mszana Dolna. We are talking about costs up to PLN 4 billion. A detailed timetable for the implementation of this investment will be presented after the completion of the preparatory work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u64	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Stanisław Żmijan, Andrzej Halicki and Cezary Grabarczyk from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform asks about plans to build the A2 motorway east of the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki. The first question is asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u65	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! A few weeks ago, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz announced at the press conference the signing of a contract for the preparation of the A2 motorway concept on the section of Biała Podlaska - the border of the state in Terespol. In this way, preparatory work is ongoing in the case of the entire section A2 from the ring road of Minsk Mazowiecki. This is an important event for the eastern Mazowsze, for the north-eastern Lublin region, as well as for the whole country, because we will finish the motorway program in Poland. But it's a waste of time. If the infrastructure department and Minister Adamczyk had not delayed and joined this work 3 years ago, today we could have launched tender procedures, but better late than never. The positive wording of this event was damaged in the days following Minister Chodkiewicz's conference by representatives of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, who informed the public through the media that A2 in this section could be a one-day road with section 2+1. In this connection, the main question is: Is the Ministry of Infrastructure still considering building the eastern sections of the A2 motorway in a different standard than the motorway or expressway with certain technical parameters of the two-day high-speed road? The question is all the more valid because at the conference Minister Chodkiewicz used insensitive phrases about the vertical spine, horizontal network of national roads in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u66	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Mikołaj Wild, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! It seems to me that the answer to this question should be preceded by a general statement that investment in transport infrastructure must consist of a system, must be a coherent system. It is not only the parameters that should be taken into account. We have here, you can say, negative know-how. It goes on for example. about the A2 motorway on the section between Warsaw and Łódź. Episode, which currently moves to 84,000. vehicles per day, was designed in 2+2 format. Secondly, money must be counted, funding must be provided so as not to lead, as in the case of the A2 motorway, to a situation in which investments, including investments, have been missing, as the Member asked. There's a total of 107 billion. In the last year, the government had to increase its funding to PLN 135 billion in order to provide funding for this investment. And thirdly, of course, you have to provide a third parameter, which is time. As we know, we are still completing the investment to be ready for the Euro in 2012. And now I'm gonna go straight to the question. Indeed, in the case of the A2 motorway on the section that you are asking about, according to today's projections, it is possible to consider whether the traffic congestion would exceed 5, 10 thousand. We do not follow this logic because we do not want to repeat the mistake that was made when designing the A2 motorway between Warsaw and Łódź. Therefore, in the full course of the A2 motorway from the western border to the eastern border is planned as a highway. What is a highway is decided by law, which means that the motorway has at least two lanes in each direction, a certain width of the lanes, specific exits. So I can at this point reassure the Member and everyone concerned. Here, regardless of these discussions, taking into account the demand raised, which will be linked to the construction of this transport route, we are planning the construction of the motorway throughout. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u68	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Caesar Grabarczyk for a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u69	My dear Miss Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've calmed us down a bit. We're also glad you don't want to make mistakes. This was the mistake made by the first government of Law and Justice, because he wanted to build a section of the A2 motorway between Łódź and Warsaw in the public-private partnership system. And in the National Roads and Motorways programme there was no money for this section of the highway. Now, for some time now, the so-called. the duration of the project. How much money is running away - and this is a specific question - from the National Road Fund because you didn't introduce the Minister of Charges on this section? When will this section be included in the fees? And when will the entire A2 motorway be a toll highway? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u70	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Minister Nicholas Wild to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u71	I have good news for the inhabitants of Warsaw and Łódź, as well as people who will travel to the Central Communication Port in the future. This waste, as the Minister described it, will continue. We do not intend to charge fees in the section between Warsaw and Łódź. To the rest of the range, the fees are kept at a level that will not limit the mobility of Poles, because we believe that transport in Poland is profitable for the Polish economy. The fact that Warsaw and Łódź maintain such a high level with regard to the motorway is good from the point of view of the Polish economy. And these measures, which, as the Minister said, are fleeing, we view them as investment, because we take them in taxes, we take them in CIT, we take that difference from the development of our economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u72	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Czesław Mrocek and Paweł Suski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on the MON communication on the purchase of HIMARS rocket kits - to the Minister of National Defence. Please, the first question is Mr. Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In March 2015, a programme of acquisition for the Polish army of rocket artillery entered the final stage of implementation. At that time, the Ministry of National Defence commissioned a consortium led by Huta Stalowa Wola. Later, the leader of this consortium was the Polish Armed Group. It's a permanent negotiation. The Polish industry was supposed to deliver this system, and, of course, to accomplish this task a foreign partner, because the Polish industry itself is not able to accomplish this task. It turned out that despite a long procedure, this project would not be implemented. At the end of last year we were informed that Polish MON excluded Polish industry from this procedure and will purchase this system from the American shelf. Therefore, the question arises: What happened that the Polish Armed Group, selected for this project, did not implement it already in 2015? I think it explains a lot to us this situation, the last information about the detention and temporary arrest of people associated with this group, especially the vice president, the people who should have done this project and were doing something else. In this group a social and business arrangement was established, as the Central Anti-corruption Office said, to carry out public money. Instead of implementing projects that are important for the country, projects that are important for the military, public money was being delivered there. As a result, the project will be implemented without Polish industrial participation, in a non-competitive system, without the participation of the Polish industry. So what is the chance for Polish industry? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will this Polish industry carry out in the future? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u74	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence of Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words of explanation. The ordering officer, the Ministry of National Defence, the Armed Inspector, in the framework of the ongoing proceedings to obtain divisional fire modules of multi-protector rocket launchers Lomar, following the presentation by the contractor of a consortium headed by the Polish Armed Group, offered to carry out this task, following appropriate negotiations, decided to cancel the proceedings. What was the cause? The procedure was annulled because the value of the offer submitted by the consortium significantly exceeded the amount of funds reserved for this purpose in the plan for technical modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. This was the main reason: it was simply what the Polish Armed Group presented as the leader of the consortium, which repeatedly exceeded our capabilities and resources, which the Ministry of National Defence has at its disposal. The decision to obtain the first division of the multi-pronged lobster rocket launchers from the U.S. government is due to the urgent operational need of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as well as the analyses carried out, among others. on the ability to meet the requirements of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, technological readiness and interoperability. It should be stressed that the choice of the rocket system is in line with the recommendations made by the consortium, whose leader was the Polish Armed Group, in the context of the completed procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth noting another issue: other systems offered, among others. by Turkey or Israel, they were introduced into the equipment of their own armies or unfortunately were used by the countries of the Eastern Block, and their elements were insufficient to meet the expectations of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. This is the main reason - that's why we decided to buy the HIMARS rocket system from the Americans, as Minister Mr Darkek said, just off the shelf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u76	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczek will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Perhaps the high costs of the Pegasus offer are the result of the side costs that have arisen in this company. [[Applause]] On the other hand, as far as the US system itself is concerned, the Himars rocket artillery system, of course, is a very good product, but there are still some good products on the market. The idea was that this competitive procedure would allow the Polish industry to participate in the implementation of this product. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 we launched a programme for the acquisition of the marine missile system. The Navy has had this system for several years, it has a Marine Rocket Unit. In the case of the Marine Rocket Unit, 10 years ago we were able to secure the share of Polish industry. The whole system uses products of Polish industry. All vehicles, because this is a mobile system, are Polish. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Radar systems are Polish. And after 10 years, instead of developing the capabilities of the Polish industry, you bring him down? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u78	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Skurkiewicz to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Mr Czesław Mroczek's words, the message was that it was the Law and Justice that had been ruling for 10 years. No, Minister. Three years. [[And that's enough.]] [[Who's gonna take it?]] But in answer to your doubts and pinches, quite subtle, I will repeat once again: ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of National Defence has taken action in connection with the implementation of the lobster program based on the Polish defence industry. Let me repeat once again: due to the high costs of obtaining this from the consortium, which was led by the Polish Armed Group, we resigned, we withdrew from the further procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we simply cannot afford this, because the funding from the consortium's offer has repeatedly exceeded our financial capabilities. I will repeat what I have said once again, ladies and gentlemen, just now: today we decide to win the first division. As you know, you're members of the National Defence Committee, and the plan is to get three modules, three divisions. The decision on the next will be preceded by an appropriate analysis of the possibilities, in this case also the use of offset and technology transfer. We are absolutely concerned about this and we want to - also on the basis of those agreements which are signed today under the FMC, among others. with the US government - to increase the potential of our arms industry, our defence industry. We are fully aware that in the event of any threat, in the situation of threat K or W, production for the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland will rest on the shoulders of the Polish defence industry. In particular, I am saying to us, in the sense of the Civic Platform, the Law and Justice, but also to other political formations that are rationally addressing the issue of national defence, it should be important, and I think it is important that the Polish defence industry flourish and develop as best as possible, also on the basis of technologies that we do not have today and which we have the opportunity to gain in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u80	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Mr Jan Warzecha and Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the state of play of the preparatory work related to the construction of the Kąty-Myscow reservoir in the Jasielsko district - to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The first question is asked by Mr Bogdan Rzońc.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u81	Thank you very much, Marshal. This year we will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the failure to build the water reservoir of Kąty - Myscow and the 11th anniversary of unfortunately a very unsavory decision of the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party to remove this investment from the list of individual projects for the Operational Programme. This happened in 2008. No one wants to admit it until today, but those were the facts - just that investment on this list was removed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an investment which is very important and crucial from the point of view of water safety, flooding for Poland. We're talking about an investment that we've been talking about for years, and not much has been done. Especially dramatic was the situation when the PO-PSL coalition was ruled, because nothing was done for the Kęty - Myscow reservoir at that time except that this investment was removed from the list of key individual projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the district of Jasielski is affected by floods, as well as the districts of Oękicki, Oliczycki and Mielecki. On the Vistula, this investment is absolutely important from the point of view of flood safety. We've got water or too much water or too little water. Only time was lost between 2007 and 2008, in principle nothing had been done by 2015. I have, for the sake of argument, about 10 answers from Minister Gawłowski, who has keyed once and again that it will be done or that in a moment, or that the project will be done. Unfortunately, none of this remained, and there was not even a trace that would make it possible for us to continue our work after we took over in 2015. My question is, where are we when it comes to this extremely important investment? Where are we? Let me remind you that Jasielski County is waiting for this investment, because also during the time when the Platform of PSL was run, sold in Jasła Pektowin - contributed to this PSL, Mr. Jan Bury was responsible for it - Gamrat was sold, was liquidated [[♪ The bell ♪]] jobs, and we were flooded with water. Where are we, Minister, when it comes to the construction of this investment, what is the construction of the water reservoir of the Angles - Myscow? This is what people are waiting for, and those who live in Angles and Myscowa, because they do not know whether to build new houses or develop farms. This is very, very important. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u82	Thank you very much, sir. Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Minister Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for this question, because indeed the scale of negligence in terms of flood prevention infrastructure, during the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party was terrifying. I will just say that 20 years has been built since the start of the investment the Swine Poręba reservoir, the water level in Malczyce in Odra, which also has the function of flattening the flood wave in Odra, but the Kęta - Myscowa reservoir is actually on the ungrateful podium of this long list of negligence. To answer your question, I will say that the Kęty-Myscowa reservoir is of absolute priority when it comes to key flood-related investments in the south of Poland. First of all, it will protect against the effects of drought, guarantee water for Jasła, Dębica, Mielec and municipalities located between Nowy Żmigród and Jasła by aligning low flow flows, provide protection against flooding due to the reduction of the culmination of the rise to the volume of low-harmed flow, help maintain good ecological status. I would also like to draw attention to the important objectives of enabling a water power plant with a minimum capacity of 1,5 in this place of work. MW and creating conditions for the economic activation of the site in accordance with its natural values. Thank you very much, Mr Rzonca, and the parliamentarians of the Law and Justice of those parts, for the invitation. A few months ago, I was personally on the territory of the future reservoir of Kęta - Myscowa. Indeed, when you are there - anyone who was there could see it - you can see that this place has a great location, which is important when it comes to the use of all these functions that I was talking about, through this tank, as well as the tourist activation, the economic activation of this region. In the south of Poland, in addition to completing the tank in Boboszów in Nysa Kłodzka in the Kłodzów district, the Kąty - Myscow reservoir is the second most important object that will be realized, it is already ready to be realized. This is the responsibility of the newly created RZGW in Rzeszów, which in 2018 took over all the documentation related to this project from RZGW in Krakow. In the second half of 2018, a tender procedure for the selection of the contractor was prepared and conducted, and a report on the environmental impact of the vessel was requested. On 7 December, a contract was signed with a newly selected contractor to supplement and update it in accordance with the applicable legal acts following the entry into force of the new Water Law. This deadline... This is to be done by the end of this year - all documentation is to be made. I hope that the selection of the general contractor and the entire tender will take place in the first half of next year, maybe even in the first quarter, but we do not want to be so optimistic, so we are talking about the first half of next year, 2020. The work on hydraulic modeling and varianting is currently underway. If we complete the hydraulic modeling work, we can start hydrotechnical modeling, point out exactly where the tank skull will be where the construction will take place. Natural inventory has also been launched to update information on the state of flora and fauna in the reservoir area. In 2019 we plan to commission the development of a urban concept covering not only the area of the tank's skull, but also the area adjacent to this tank, it is about roads and natural compensation. We have already worked on this work on the Swinna Poręba reservoir in the district of Wadowice. This will make it possible, first of all, to relocate the owners of the tank's real estate. On the question whether they are to be built, I will answer: no, they are not to build, because there we are really planning to create a large reservoir, we are planning to start a mediation process with the owners of about 53 farms located in the skull of the designed tank. RZGW in Rzeszów makes every effort and is well prepared for this role. In December 2017, the Minister of the Environment appointed an entity implementing the project at RZGW. In September 2017, over PLN 1 800 000 was guaranteed on the basis of a contract with NFOŚiGW for the documentation prepared, redesigned and supplemented. As I said, this is a strategic investment of Polish Waters. RZGW in Rzeszów, in addition to the current water management in its territory, [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is no more important investment to be made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u84	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal for another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I thank the Minister for his response and, above all, for his visit, his determination to make this investment happen. As the Minister said, this is a key investment for Podkarpacie, the most important one. The districts of Jasielsk, Oak, Mielec will perhaps be protected against the danger of flooding, but it also has to play a role in the event of drought. Minister. I also have this question: When could this investment be completed with the determination that the Minister shows, but also with the RZGW in Rzeszów? I know it's a long shot, but I think there's also a financial and in-kind schedule. It's like one question. On the other hand, if the Minister had the opportunity to provide us with written information on other tasks [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Podkarpackie Voivodship, and the financial and in-kind timetable, we would be very grateful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u86	Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u87	I answer the second question and request: of course, this information will be communicated to the Members. As for the introduction to this question, I remind you that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki in the so-called. The five for Podkarpacie placed the Kęty - Myscow reservoir just as a key project, one of the five key projects. As regards the timetable for implementation, ladies and gentlemen, however, we must return to this scale of negligence. We would still be in the implementation of this investment if water management were conducted in a clear, clear, transparent way, and information about the former Deputy Minister of the Environment makes us believe that something else was done in the then Ministry of the Environment rather than water management. On the other hand, we are planning to prepare tender documents at the end of 2021. The launch of the tender procedure and its conclusion is also 2021. The purchase of land is about 2 years, that will be the years 2022 to 2024. And in 2025 we will begin construction according to very optimistic assumptions. On the other hand, in written response, we will pass on a comprehensive material plan and how, according to very careful estimates, the timetable for the construction of this vessel may look like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u88	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Ms Anna Czech and Ms Elżbieta Duda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Question about further professional care for patients after hospital treatment. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Elizabeth Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u89	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! From various localities throughout Poland, we receive information about patients who require further professional care after treatment, and families are unable to provide it. Therefore, patients remain in hospital wards even though they do not require hospitalisation. The situation is aggravated by the lack of places in nursing, medical, social services or hospices. The extension of this unjustified hospitalisation generates additional costs for hospitals, it is a heavy burden for them. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions. Does the Ministry know and analyze the situation of patients who, after the end of treatment in hospitals, need to be placed in nursing or care facilities, social services or hospices? Second question: What action is taken by the Minister of Health to ensure the continuity of hospitalization, treatment of a patient discharged from the hospital? And one more question: How does the Ministry assess the availability of these rehabilitation benefits, the dynamics of financing rehabilitation benefits and long-term care in order to secure patient care? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u90	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u91	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for asking this question. The problem raised by ladies is a very important problem that health care is currently facing. The previous way of financing health services - the way of financing for the service - caused the coordination of the treatment process to be impaired, the difficulties associated with the continuation of the treatment process. Ladies and gentlemen! A patient who, after being in a hospital, requires continued treatment in a rehabilitation ward, in a long-term care facility or in an outpatient care facility, after being discharged from a hospital, in accordance with the Health Minister's Regulation, shall receive an appropriate referral issued by the treating physician. According to the law, the patient has the right to choose the provider, and therefore anyone can decide in which subject he would like to continue the collection of benefits. However, the Minister of Health has been receiving information - and it has already been known for many, many years - that the availability of these post-hospital benefits is largely limited. Depending on the referral mode, whether this is an urgent referral, whether this particular case requires an urgent response or whether it can be adopted in a stable manner, the waiting period for the benefit is different. The Minister of Health has been taking concrete action for several years to coordinate further treatment processes. In accordance with the regulation of the Minister of Health we introduced among others. comprehensive care in several types of benefits, the most important from the point of view of epidemiology in our country. Thus, a comprehensive benefit was introduced in the post-heart attack proceedings. Patients after a myocardial infarction are guaranteed comprehensive rehabilitation care. This involves coordinating all care activities within 12 months of the onset of the heart attack. Within the framework of this coordination, the healthcare provider shall ensure that the therapeutic process is carried out taking into account the individual needs of the patient, in accordance with a pre-established treatment plan. A similar situation also occurs in patients hospitalized for stroke-related episodes. Early neurological rehabilitation is also guaranteed in this case. Such patients, as part of a coordinated benefit, are provided with access to early neurological rehabilitation. A similar issue, related to the coordination of treatment processes, is also present in breast cancers. In this case also, after using a specific treatment, we secure comprehensive rehabilitation, which is intended to prevent the development of swelling or weakness of limb function. These are examples of concrete actions that the Minister is taking in these most important cases, with a view to preventing undesirable effects that may arise as a result of the lack of possibility of continuing treatment. In addition, we have also introduced in the system new products of funding by the National Health Fund, among others. coordinated care of the pregnant, coordinated care of the child. This is related to the Life Act, and concerns the situation where children born with health problems, within the framework of child coordination centres, have the possibility to continue treatment, rehabilitation and coordination of all these processes through entities that have contracted these types of benefits. This is one of the elements of improving accessibility to benefits that are necessary to maintain health after the hospital treatment process. I would like to stress here that the Minister of Health is also taking other measures to increase access to post-hospital care services, among others. Last year, the Sejm adopted a law that guaranteed people with a significant degree of disability and children with disabilities access to rehabilitation benefits without referral and outside the queue. These people benefit from this type of benefits. In addition, additional appropriations of 5% were made available to beneficiaries the value of the current contract. These benefits are realized. Accessibility to medicinal products, to orthopaedics without restrictions - these are also activities related to the continuation of treatment undertaken by the Minister of Health. On the other hand, the question of access to long-term care requires cooperation, among others. with local governments. It is both about creating new fixed places [[♪ The bell ♪]] long-term care, as well as the development of environmental and daily benefits dedicated to patients who require continuation of rehabilitation or care.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. And I would like to ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz for a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! My question concerns the care of people with more complex ailments. It is very often the case that neurological disorders occur when treating cardiovascular disorders. Then such a patient is not subject to care or cardiologists, because they have completed their actions or neurologists, because the neurologists did not start this treatment and do not think that they need to take such action. In my parliamentary experience, no one wants to take such patients because their treatment is very difficult and uncertain. Usually hospitals, and such an example we have in Warsaw at a reputable hospital, send the family back to seek such services privately. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Firstly, such services performed privately are, of course, very expensive, and secondly, also private facilities do not want to accept. What can be done about this? I appreciate everything the Ministry is doing, but what is it in such a difficult case that a family is sent back to a free market that doesn't offer these services?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u94	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u95	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem that you are talking about is that the Minister of Health is analysing it on an ongoing basis. We are preparing changes in this area. It is about the challenges of an ageing society, but also issues of the kind that, as a result of the development of medical techniques, modern therapies, we are very often able to save human life, while sometimes there are certain dysfunctions that require continued treatment, physiotherapy, care, not only care, but also social support. To date, these benefits have been financed by two resorts: health resort, i.e. the National Health Fund, financed care, care and care facilities, daily branches as well as environmental treatment teams, long-term care, environmental care, while a number of social benefits were provided and financed by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. We considered that these two systems should be integrated in order to manage resources more efficiently. At the moment there is a working debate on how to integrate all the resources that we have under this system, i.e. not only financial resources, but also human resources and institutional capacity, in order to actually provide elderly or disabled people with care. As you know, in the Ministry of Health, EU funds piloted the creation of the so-called. DTOMs, i.e. daily nursing homes, in which both medical benefits and social-care benefits would be provided. This piloting has brought very good results and we are currently working on implementing this solution across the country. As a result of cooperation with the family ministry, specific assumptions have already been made. We would like such daily care homes to be created in as many local authorities as possible. We anticipate two-track funding: health benefits will be financed by the National Health Fund and social funding by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Such integration of these two services in patient care can have a good effect and I think this is the model that we will pursue. As I said, we are very advanced in these discussions, and in the near future there will probably be a concrete proposal that will be presented for public consultation. I mentioned in my previous statement that we see a large role and the possibility of support in local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know that in many county hospitals not all beds are used. This potential is not being exploited, so we should also consider and take action towards transformation, for example. certain branches in care and care facilities or in care and care facilities so that these patients do not actually lie in the hospital in the internal ward because this is not a patient-friendly environment, the idea is that they should have secure institutional assistance if they cannot function at home on their own 24/7. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Ms Ewa Malik, Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mrs Danuta Nowicka, Law and Justice, ask a question on the need to transform the Institute of Medicine and Environmental Health in Sosnowiec. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Please, the first question is asked by Mrs Ewa Malik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u97	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Concerned employees of the Institute of Medicine and Environmental Health in Sosnowiec came to our Members' Offices, presenting the extremely difficult situation of the Institute and the concern about the liquidation of this Institute. The Institute of Labour Medicine has existed in Sosnowiec since 1965 and is a unique institution. It secures medical benefits in clinical toxicology for about 6 million inhabitants. Whether the institute is transformed and how, its hospital part should remain in Sosnowiec. This is not only the case for people employed in the occupational medicine institute, but also very many residents of Sosnowiec. This institution has grown strongly into history, environment, and even the identity of the capital city of Zagłębie - Sosnowiec. It is one of the most recognizable and important workplaces and the violation of this status quo arouses understandable resistance from the inhabitants. As we know that the Minister for Health has been ordered to set up a working group to conduct a preparatory procedure to assess the needs and conditions of the merger, division or liquidation of the Sosnowiec Institute of Labour Medicine, we ask the Minister to present the conclusions of the work of the team. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u98	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u99	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments introduced by Law 2.0 lay down certain requirements, specific requirements for universities as well as institutes. In order for institutes to be able to function in this new legal order, they must comply with certain requirements, the requirements for substantive activities related to the performance of specific tasks, benefits, tasks related to the nature of the institute, also have to demonstrate appropriate scientific activity, which shall be assessed by the relevant heath. As you know, this institute, which we are talking about in terms of scientific activity, was classified in category B, i.e. this activity, you can say, was not satisfactory. This activity involved financial issues, because on this basis adequate financial resources are transferred. The reduction of grants also worsened the financial situation of this institute. For several years, this institute has actually shown not only unsatisfactory results in terms of scientific activities but also unsatisfactory results in terms of financial activity, financial results. For several years now, the Institute's managers have been informed that concrete measures should be taken to improve this situation - both the scientific activation of the Institute's activities and the internal reorganisation, which will have concrete effects. Nevertheless, the institute is an important centre on the map of Poland. That is why we do not want to remain passive about this situation. Therefore, in November the Minister for Health set up a panel on which you spoke, which examines all aspects of the functioning of this institute, also analyses the possibilities of transformation and reorganisation. We are aware that certain areas of the institute's activities have been permanently integrated into the environment and are essential. The Minister of Health will not eliminate precisely this activity, which is essential, which plays a very important role in the sub-region. In this respect we are also in constant contact with the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship. Mr. Marshal is also very interested in this issue and we are talking. But we are also looking for solutions that will allow this institute to continue to function. We also mean employees, because there are over 200 people working there, so we would like to make these changes in such a way that they do not feel negative about these transformations. On the other hand, we would also like to ensure the quality of the work of this institute and, Madam President, we assure you that all these... Maybe so, because the Member asks about the results: the team has not finished its work yet. Minister Sławomir Gadomski directs the work of this team. We will be discussing this at the next board meeting. All these arguments you are talking about, we will certainly be considering and discussing and discussing how to proceed. But we will always remember that the work of this institute is also important. The Institute plays an important role, but the tasks it carries out must be of good quality, because patients, the environment, contractors expect it, and it is our role to ensure this quality. In view of your concern, however, we will bow down with particular care and in such a way as not to cause changes which will later be irreversible and will cause damage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u100	Thank you very much. Do you still want to ask the second question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u101	Yeah, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u102	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u103	...a further question to ask, very important also for the employees of this institute. Allow me to ask the Minister the following question. In connection with information on numerous redundancies of workers - it is particularly relevant this is part of the scientific institute - please refer to the following issue. How true is this information and do these redundancies of the Institute's staff fit into the restructuring plan and the legitimate organisational changes adopted by the Ministry in this plan, and how much are the redundancies carried out in breach of labour law, as claimed by those intervening in our parliamentary offices? This is an important issue for these workers. But I hope everything is under the control of the ministry. And if the Minister can't do it today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] grant I would like a detailed reply on this subject, and I would like a written reply in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u104	Thank you very much, Member. And you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u105	I, of course, would like to make a brief addition. Since a strategy has not yet been developed on the direction of the Institute's work, it is difficult to talk about specific issues relating to labour rights, i.e. the termination of employment contracts, whether this is legal or not. The aim of these changes, which the Minister of Health makes, is not to fire workers, but to improve their functioning. Once a new structure has been developed for tasks, staff resources will also be adapted to the objectives. For my part, I would like to assure you that any changes will be made, if they touch workers, they will certainly be carried out in accordance with the current law. And if there are any signals, we are asking for information, because it is in the interests of all of us to observe the law and the Minister of Health will always stand by the law, the observance of the law. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on Polish energy policy will be considered, in particular the detention by the Government of Law and Justice of RES development, in the context of current prices, about which the present was brought by the Modern Posel Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. I am now forced to announce a time-out by the hour. 11. We're waiting for a representative of the Modern Club. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 52 hours 10 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Paweł Pudłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u107	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, the subject we are dealing with has been pushed at the end of today's meeting, and it is very important. It concerns the huge chaos we are witnessing in the energy sector in Poland. There is an isolated case, which was shared with me last night by an entrepreneur from Lubuskie, who said that he had contracted the energy price for 2019 at the level of PLN 214.220 for 1 MWh. Unfortunately, the contract he had for two years was made to him. Currently, it can sign an agreement which sets the amount of PLN 400 per MWh. For his business, that means 15 and 20 thousand. additional costs per month, which basically means eating all of its margin. He lives in uncertainty because the companies he's talking to are not sure, they say that there are no implementing regulations, that they don't know how any compensation would be possible. It's chaos. We hear that the European Union also has many reservations about this law. This was raised by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska in a debate in committee. She asked you whether you thought it would be unjustified public aid. We asked what happened to the Energy Regulatory Office. After all, we have an office that should regulate this area, and this law creates a de facto state monopoly. There are a lot of questions. Recently, information has appeared that the cost of implementing this law will not be as high as the State You've been serving, eight billion a year, but 16 billion a year. This significantly changes the way this law is implemented. Can you inform Poles, entrepreneurs, self-employed, all those who use electricity, so everyone, about how this situation will be? Why is there chaos? What are negotiations or arrangements with the European Union? Will it be necessary to amend this law, which has just been introduced? There's a lot of questions. On this occasion, I would like to point out that Modern has proposed a modern approach to energy. For energy, which should be restructured. We propose an approach in two stages of 15 years. First by 2035, second by 2050. In this 2050 we see dominant renewable energy sources based on wind, both on the ground and at sea, on photovoltaics, on biogas plants. It's possible, for example. Denmark shows that such solutions are possible to implement. Other 20% The energy balance is seen in gas, which from an ecology point of view is much better than coal. It is possible that there is no coal-based energy in Poland in 30 years, which does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that coal cannot be extracted. Yes, you can. This coal can then be exported. This goal is ambitious, but it can be achieved. We also set partial targets for 2035. This comprehensive strategy is available and we encourage you to get to know it because the prices for emissions are increasing. It can be seen that at present it costs about EUR 20/25 for 1 t and these prices will increase - that is just the reality of today's world. The energy economy based on state monopolies, which are not the best, most economic way of solving, as you know, business difficulties, threats, etc., will lead to higher costs. You can't fool it. The world shows that whenever the state is fully responsible for something, it is not the most efficient way of managing it. So that in our strategy we propose prosumer solutions, prosumer solutions, which will enable residents to generate energy for their own needs, and perhaps also for resale, but this requires an ambitious approach to restructuring what we have today. Therefore, we explicitly demand that the Minister provide clear and clear information on the current situation in the energy market in Poland. I stress that the current situation is completely chaotic. Entrepreneurs don't know how much they're gonna pay, they don't know if they're gonna have anything left at the end of the month. Energy companies do not know whether these compensations will occur or not. Uncertainty also concerns the costs of carrying out this law. Is this PLN 9 billion a year, or is that PLN 16 billion or more? Are we finally witnessing this only for electoral purposes? Will this only apply this year because we have two elections in a row: European and Polish Parliament? And then? And then it'll all be the same to you. So that we urge an ambitious, decisive restructuring of Polish energy and answers to the questions I have just asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u108	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr. Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent months, the Ministry of Energy submitted a project for public consultation of Poland's energy policy until 2040. The consultation lasted since 23 November. from 15 January of this year. We have also presented the project of the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030. And here the consultation takes place from 15 January to 18 February this year. Objectives of the above-mentioned study The documents are a little different. Energy policy is prepared under the Energy Law Act and is also one of the nine integrated strategies for responsible development, while the National Energy and Climate Plan is drawn up under the EU regulation of December. on the management of the Energy Union and in accordance with the template set out in the Annex above. regulations. In energy policy, we focus on issues that are most important in our assessment for achieving three policy objectives: firstly, security, secondly, competitiveness and energy efficiency and, third, reducing the environmental impact of the sector. On the other hand, the National Energy and Climate Plan is a set of policy objectives for the five dimensions of the Energy Union, i.e. the reduction of emissions, energy security, the European Union's common market, energy efficiency, innovation, research and development. The draft energy policy by 2040 presents a transformative vision of the development of the national energy sector in such a way and at such a pace as to ensure energy security as well as the development of the economy, the optimal use of national energy resources and the reduction of environmental pressures. We strive to maintain a high level of energy independence that stands out as far as the European Union is concerned. Own generation and raw material resources will remain a pillar of the electricity balance for the next decades, allowing stable and reliable energy supplies to the customer. As part of the diversification of the fuel and energy balance, we anticipate a gradual reduction in the share of coal in the electricity production balance from the current 77% up to approx. 60% In 2030, the volume of use of hard coal - more than 30 million t per year, the production of electricity 70 TWh - will remain stable. We see the need to diversify the balance sheet structure. However, the process of transforming Polish energy into an increase in the share of low- and zero-carbon sources will take place gradually and actions are already taking place at this stage. The increase in electricity demand will be covered by renewable energy sources and the implementation of nuclear energy around 2033 at 6.9 GW by 2043. According to forecasts made for policy work, the share of renewable energy sources in electricity production will increase from the current 13% up to 27% in 2030 and up to around 33% in 2040 In practice, this means an increase in electricity production from the current 22Wh to around 54Wh in 2030 and around 73Wh in 2040. In the heat industry, Poland's energy policy by 2040 provides for an ambitious increase in the share of renewable energy sources by around 1.3 percentage points on average per year and thus an increase in the share of RES in heat production from the current around 14.5% up to 25%. Similar trends in the increase in RES use are expected in transport, i.e. up to a level of approximately 14% In 2030, compared with 4% in 2017. Diversification of the generation structure towards less emissions will result in a reduction of the average emissions in this generation segment from around 900 kg CO2/MWh to around 400 kg CO2/MWh by 2040. Evolutional transformation will ensure stable and reliable energy supply while developing the economy and reducing negative environmental impacts. The achievement of the 2020 RES target is a challenge for about 16 EU countries. Even countries such as Germany, France and the United Kingdom or the Netherlands, traditionally associated with pro-climate rhetoric, have problems in achieving their objectives. This, of course, has its basis, which is probably going to be in the questions later, and I'm going to end by referring to it. It should be made clear that the activities carried out in recent years by the Ministry of Energy aim to systematically increase the use of renewable energy sources while maintaining the economic efficiency of the actions and taking into account the possibilities of the Polish economy and society. It is worth mentioning at this point the auctions for the sale of electricity from RES carried out in 2018. We managed to contract large volumes of energy from wind installations on land, it was about 950 MW, and photovoltaic - 550. Also in 2019 large auctions are planned in those areas which point to the pursuit of a change in energy mix in the electricity sector. We will do as much as we can to get closer to that goal. We are also carrying out activities aimed at developing energy clusters and energy cooperatives, which are inseparable from the expansion of RES. We also anticipate an increase in the share of renewable energy in the heating sector, which is supported by both the efficient cogeneration support system and the development of energy efficient heating systems. Progress in the development of RES must be made in a manner consistent with the guarantee of adequate reserve capacity and the development of transmission, distribution and energy storage infrastructure. These challenges are strongly addressed by the International Energy Agency in its recent 2018 World Energy Outlook report, in which it informs that the growth of RES alone is good information, but without the flexibility of the RES system they will not be a sufficient solution. Insufficient stable energy sources in the National Energy System can also lead to increased energy imports. It is currently said that imports are not bad when energy abroad is cheaper. However, the situation may soon change when neighbouring countries withdraw stable capacities that provide cheap energy. Let me remind you that the Germans are planning, among others. the exclusion of the last nuclear reactor in 2020 and the decommissioning of coal-based energy by 2038, which is to be accompanied by, inter alia, a huge amount of public money guaranteed as public aid. At the moment, the coal commission in Germany is talking about EUR 40 billion. As regards energy prices, I would like to remind you that on 28 December a law was passed amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws which entered into force on 1 January of this year. Its main provisions are to stabilise unit electricity prices as a commodity at a level not higher than the one for which the final customer was obliged to pay on 30 June 2018 and to stabilise the level of charges for the distribution of electricity at a level not higher than that for which the final customer was obliged to pay on 31 December 2018. From the point of view of the end-users, this situation is completely clear. Each of these customers, regardless of the legal form of the acquisition of electricity, whether it is a tariff, price list, special contract, combined with additional services, should be charged in 2019 in accordance with the above mentioned provisions. the provisions. There's no chaos here. However, in view of the need to adapt the IT systems of trading companies, the legislator provided for the period of the first quarter of 2019 to bring sellers into line with the provisions of the Act as regards the imposition of an obligation to clear final customers at 2018 rates for energy consumption throughout 2019, i.e. with effect from 1 January 2019. The basic mechanisms of the law for stabilising electricity prices are among others. reducing the rate of excise duty from 20 PLN to 5 PLN per MWh, which is virtually the minimum limit allowed by European law, as well as reducing the transitional levy by 95% for all electricity consumers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u110	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members have come to the discussion. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question, to speak in the debate? I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. Please, the first Mr Maciej Małecki, Law and Justice. There isn't? [[I'm here, I'm here.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see your MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Specific question: What is the current state of implementation of the RES target in Poland and what are the real projections for 2020? I would ask you, Minister, to respond to this also in the context of Europe, other countries at which they are at the level of meeting the RES target. How many countries will achieve this goal in 2020? From the information that appears, it is clear that half. Perhaps the Minister will have more detailed information as long as he does not meet the RES target in 2020. It's one thing. Second thing. Minister, in connection with the announcements of Poland's strong entry into wind farms, please tell us at what stage are the works aimed at launching this important electricity sector in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u113	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the information we have these three thematic blocks. The first is a strategy or a long-term energy policy in the context of the prices and limits that we should achieve in international law. I would like to stress, Minister, that what you have presented to us here is indisputable. That's a good thing. That's the thing everyone knows about. These are guidelines that the members of the European Union should fulfil. But what you know theoretically, mostly in our country, is the opposite of what reality is. Why am I betting such a thesis? Firstly, we clearly feel that entities and companies, energy companies, not end-users, not citizens, not entrepreneurs, who use this energy, are involved in the strategy of the Government of Law and Justice. What's the proof of that? According to the President of the URE, the biggest surge in prices occurred in 2007. And that's the truth. When we, the Platform and the PSL were in power. But why? Because in the fall after PiS we got a constructed energy structure, which took care of itself, created a dominant position on our market. What do we have now? Last year and this year, the surge in energy prices, which forced the adoption of the law to stabilise this price. What is the cause of this action? The fact that it is energy-carbon companies that dictate the tasks they carry out as part of the strategy, and that citizens are to pay for these tasks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to see to it that the Minister is watching over this and tell us whether citizens or energy companies are involved in the operation of this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u114	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking on 28 December at this extraordinary, extraordinary session of the Sejm, when we rescued from the rise in energy prices, I said that this bill was impossible, that we would have to amend it quickly. And what does it turn out to be? There is already information: at the next meeting we will amend the law. Well, you have to listen, you have to analyze, and you have to really approach, not emotionally to what you're doing, these are difficult things. Today society pays for this chaos because chaos is total. It's not like everything's under control, it's already out of control, ladies and gentlemen. You've known for six months that prices would be high, you've accepted it. I have repeatedly drawn attention here, and other colleagues, to the fact that there is a drama about prices. No, it's gonna be okay, so you accepted it, you wanted to raise energy prices. When you realized it could be a crash, something had to be done, and then all this fuss. The Polish People's Party makes it clear that this is no longer possible, we propose action over political divisions. And it's a good thing you're partly in agreement with that. We need to work out a consensus. It cannot be that we will retreat when it comes to renewable energy. You're scaring people: we're gonna have energy from windmills at sea. I'm asking you, how much, at what stage are we at? At what stage will it be 10 years from now? 'Cause probably not before. That'll be 10 years from now. And right now you're talking, it sounds nice, at sea, it's a big sea, you can see these windmills, as others put up. Only we've got the windmills ready, everything was ready. And you say, "You have to cut it out." Yeah, some sense, some sense. Wind energy is much cheaper than black energy today. Logic dictates that we support it. So we say, cheap energy for people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Clean air and safety. And that's the most important thing in this direction. You have to go. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u116	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Energy from renewable energy sources is a topic that has been discussed a lot in recent years. And rightly so, because energy from these sources is a friendly environment in which we live. Last year, in June, the Sejm adopted the government's amendment to the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, which introduced among others. new forms of support for electricity generation from renewable energy sources. On the side of the reluctant government there were various voices and opinions that the government was moving away from investment in RES. Hence my questions, in fact rhetorical, which should come from this bleacher. How does the Government of the United Right approach this issue? What role does the Government of the United Right envisage for renewable energy? How important are they to the RES government? And I am asking in the context of two strategic documents published this year by the Ministry of Energy: the project of Poland's energy policy until 2040 and the draft national plan for energy and the environment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u118	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I ask you to answer in writing the question of geothermals used to generate heat and cold. This is what we are going to get in 2020: 3% It will come from geothermals, and 86% will come from geothermals. - biomass in this sector and 2,5% - heat pumps and 8,5% - from the sun. Unfortunately, geothermal programmes lose in competitions which are announced by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, with biomass, and they lose in a decisive way, because the geothermal programme, which has been announced many times... Three years ago, I asked specifically, for example. It's about the horseware program. Geothermal waters have a temperature of 97.5°C and have been looking forward to effective use for 3 years, because programs that are dedicated are really biomass programs, not geothermal programs. I'm asking for an answer, because in the program, which is the only effective geothermal program, it's really the means for research openings. There are several projects, six research holes, among others. in Kole, Sieradz or in Szdroj Land, but it's very little and we don't know what's going on next. As far as the national fund programmes are concerned, as I said, one is a loan scheme financed by national funds. But this is a loan program and practically local governments don't use it. Please inform us how many funds of this 400 million have been developed in 2018. As far as the second is concerned, local authorities are primarily concerned with the infrastructure and environment programme, the reduction of the emissions under Action 1.1.1. That's what the horse program is for, too. There are 56% for grants, 30% for a low-interest loan. This program has so far been only biomass, first edition and third edition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the first quarter of 2019 there will also be a programme dedicated, among others. Geothermia, but hopefully not with biomass. I ask you to answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u121	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have great respect for you, but I disagree with what you said. There is chaos in energy - you obviously don't talk about it with people, with entrepreneurs - you just don't know where you stand. Energy companies don't ask these questions in public because people are afraid for their jobs, because you can see that when anyone says anything, they're about to lose their jobs. I have a number of questions, I don't even know if I can read them all. I ask the Minister to reply in writing because I would like Poland to know these answers so that we have proof of your energy policy. First of all, you're talking about an atom. What's the cost of building nuclear energy? Does this apply to the construction of nuclear energy in the current technology that is obsolete? She's really out of date. The world is moving forward. There are practically no solutions yet in place, but within 5 and 7 years we will have a new nuclear energy based on a new, completely different technology. Do we now want to go into old technology and spend huge money? I said, how much? You are talking about the fact that 16 countries will not meet their renewable energy targets by 2020. Does this mean softening our position, preparing us for the fact that you are about to say that we will not meet the 2020 criteria? You're asking from your political party how many countries there aren't gonna be. And I ask myself how many Polish cities are now the biggest poisoners of the 50 largest poisoners in Europe. Or 36? What does this mean for the citizens of the Republic of Poland? How many citizens lose their lives every year because of bad air? What are you doing to change the energy mix and resist it? Will it be a regulation, or will it not be a regulation? When? Entrepreneurs and energy companies don't know that. The cost of the bill - you didn't say 9 or 16 billion. Is it included in the budget or not? What does the European Union draw attention to? The Minister is after meetings - does this apply to URE, or also to public aid? Will there be an amendment to the bill? What's it gonna be? Would you like to adopt the amendment as soon as you have adopted the law? If you don't take her in, you're still going out and saying there's no chaos, it's quiet, everything's okay? Mr Andrzej Czerwiński stressed in his statement that they had received some restrictions for them in your inheritance. And that's how you're gonna explain yourself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it time for the round table? As investments in energy are long-term investments, this cannot be done in one term.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u122	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u123	Are you open to discussing energy at the round table with all of us? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u124	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u125	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Europe and the world for several years, and maybe a little longer we have seen a new trend in energy, as experts say and write: in the civil, intellectual, efficient and renewable era, based on wind, sun, water and geothermal, where the region, city and even citizen can adapt the energy mix. What about us, Minister? For 3 years you have not been able to prepare or adopt Poland's energy policy. As we have heard before: there is chaos, chaos at every stage, at every level - through ministries, energy companies, until actually after the energy recipient. Minister! We already know we're not going to achieve the 15% target. the contribution of RES by 2020, that is what the Minister said. But after all, we are organising auctions and the last auction on the sale of energy from new renewable energy sources, carried out in 2018, shows that we have a huge potential for wind energy. Here these prices are definitely reaching the level of conventional energy prices. It turned out that the lowest selling price of this type of energy was PLN 157,8 - large wind power plants showed this. We have a problem with preparing proper auction baskets, a problem with estimating the volume and value of energy of subordinate sales. This shows that the largest volume of almost 57 TWh worth PLN 25 billion reached 1.7% in sales , and the values are 1.6%. Minister! We have examples of these auctions [[♪ The bell ♪]] conducted in the years 2016 and 2018. I would like to know from you what we will achieve in 2020 this RES level. Who's gonna pay the penalty for this...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u126	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u127	...that we're not gonna keep up with this indicator? How much is that gonna be? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u128	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2017, RES auctions were cancelled and the RES support system itself... the 2015 Renewable Energy Act itself was notified only in 2017 by the current government. Therefore, the question arises: What were the consequences of the fact that the law was not notified by the previous government? Has this prevented the development of renewable energy sources? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u130	Thank you, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz. There isn't. Here you go, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the presentation of the State's energy policy project by 2040, there were voices that, of course, after a certain period of time ceased to exist, that the Polish government intended not only not to develop RES but to even take action to slow down investment in some of the RES sector. I have a question, Minister: Is the government going to liquidate part of the RES sector? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u132	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, why do local governments and entrepreneurs support RES, but the government in Poland still prefers to support coal? Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz in the company and in the presence of Minister of Energy Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski declared that in the fight against smog in Poland there will be a program supporting electric heating. Does the current bill, which will be amended again in a very urgent manner after nearly a month, provide for provisions for payments to the electricity heating bill? If not, Minister, please tell us when this declaration by Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz and Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski, who announced the implementation of the financing of electric heating, will be implemented and at what stage is this project at present. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u134	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Magdalena Ewa Marek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u135	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The subject is very important, there are a lot of questions, and time is short, which is why I would ask for an answer in writing. I wanted to ask, when will the Minister for Energy issue regulations to the bill that we voted on at the end of December on energy prices? Why will the level of RES agreed in international agreements for 2020 not be reached? I'm asking about Poland. What was the government's objective when it came to halting the development of RES energy, especially wind and solar energy? Why has it been stopped by the Prosumer program, which was perfectly prepared, enjoyed interest? [[He hasn't even started yet.]] What is the state of play with the European Commission on the law that we voted on in December on energy prices? Has this action been recognised by the European Commission as unlawful aid? What are the arrangements with the European Commission? Is it true that this bill will be amended? When will it be updated and to what extent? In Poland, companies invested in energy efficiency. The question arises as to what is the situation on the market so-called. White certificates, because URE has about 1700 requests for decision. Is it true that the companies are suing URE, and are the first sentences? Will the competence of the URE be changed? If so, please inform us to what extent. The Bełchatów Power Plant is the largest poisoner in Europe. What is the Polish government planning to do, change in this regard? Does he have any idea? What's the government's policy on smog? What are the funds? How is this implemented? I would like the Minister to answer this question quite precisely. During the December debate, at the time of the questioning, there was no Prime Minister. I asked for an answer in writing. To this day, I have not received this answer, which is why I would like to remind you that Members are in control of the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u136	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The current government notified the RES Act to the European Commission and submitted an amendment to the law adopted in 2018. This provided the basis for the auction in the framework of RES development in 2018. I have the following question. In connection with the information of the Minister of Energy on RES auctions in 2019 I ask the Minister to provide information on the expected limits for RES auctions for 2019. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u138	Thank you, Member. Mr Tomasz is not here. Please, Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u139	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! In the whole energy mix, agriculture can be an important element - and I hope it will be. I would like to ask the Minister what directions the government has planned in terms of the use of agricultural energy. I mean biogas plants, biofuels. There are many areas in Poland that are not agriculturally exploited, because they cannot be agriculturally exploited and can be used... [[There are no volunteers.]] ...for the cultivation of products, semi-finished products for biogas plants or biofuels. Please answer me. This is for the benefit of the energy mix, it is for the benefit of energy, but it is also for the great benefit of Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u140	Thank you, sir. Mr Stanisław Gawłowski is absent. Mr Ireneus will also gain. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Poland today has around 95% the power generated for current demand on a national scale. We're buying energy from the outside. Imports from Germany increased by 138%. That's the state we're in, generally speaking. The consequence of this is the introduction of the Law on the auction system by PiS. Minister! I'm a member of a shopping group. There are documents on my desk withdrawing the Orange contract in this case. It's a change from PLN 241 to PLN 340, a 65-percent increase. This is the consequence of the bill, the reduction of this, among others. society. By lowering or maintaining energy at the same level, you have not reduced the cost of energy production. I am therefore concerned that in 65% of the agricultural plant I will have to cover the elements related to current production. How do I do that? That's a salomone question. Another specific story. You've introduced it into a chaotic prosumer system. You haven't done it well yet, and there's a lot of demand for you to stop. This chaos that is currently on the market - it is about the Ministry and you, Minister - causes investors to refuse to build. They're afraid to build new biogas plants, they're afraid to build many other things because the law is unstable. How can you do that? I myself in my companies wanted to build two biogas plants, but I hold back the decision because you are unpredictable and unpredictable. Here's another thing. What I'm saying is, 8 billion punishments await us if we don't comply with 13%, 15% And we won't. We are perhaps the only country in the world where the demand for RES decreases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The share of RES in Poland is decreasing in the case of energy demand. Poland is becoming an unbelievable country. I'm not talking about the disgraceful import of coal anymore. That's a complete blazer. As with such an important factor that comes into production...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u143	...in such a disrespectful way... [[Voices from the O.R.: Time!]] ...to run a policy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u144	Thank you very much. Excuse me, but I'm in session, so don't yell. Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! There are two points I would like to raise in my question. The first issue concerns RES, which is what we are going to achieve in 2020. How's it looking today? There's very little time left. How is the Ministry planning further action for the coming months? Are there any further auctions planned? What's the schedule for these auctions? And what is the volume that is predicted in these auctions? The second question concerns offshore wind energy. In Poland's energy policy, including the strategic document proposed by the Ministry of Economy, we founded a construction on the Baltic power of 10.3 GW. This is a very large volume, although I am more optimistic: I think we will be able to exceed these assumptions, realize them with a surplus. Powers, pure powers on the Baltic are very important. It turns out that we have excellent conditions, even better than in the North Sea, so this is the most forward-looking direction. But it's not just the power in this area that's important. We can count on such a very large boost to the economic development of the country associated with this project. In the parliamentary team, which I am pleased to chair, we have made such a diagnosis of companies that are already producing for offshore wind energy today. It is about 100 Polish companies. Many of these companies with the participation of the State Treasury produce foundations, manufacture towers. There is already a consortium of Polish companies that produced trafostations. So what's the timetable for working on a law dedicated to offshore wind energy? I believe it must be a special regulation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that these companies can benefit from a developmental impulse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u146	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Vladimir Karpiński is not here. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! During the process of adopting the amendment of RES in 2018, the Minister, the representative for the restructuring of coal mining, immediately said that the energy resort immediately after the adoption of this law must proceed with the next amendment. I draw attention to the fact that there are still new amendments, and this is extremely important, which is taken very seriously. They are, of course, addressed to the Ministry of Energy. Of course, he announced that there would be another amendment, that all your votes would be taken into account in the Committee on Energy. The right state and the importance of these amendments determine the need to work on their content. I think this is going to go on a little longer, but I hope that there will be another important amendment to the RES Act, it will confirm and that the Minister will make declarations here that you are working hard on it, and that there will soon be another amendment that we are all looking for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u148	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the media report, the PiS government withdraws from the destruction of wind energy in Poland. Well, it's a little late, though, because it's been wasted three years. You're in a frenzy, the PiS state, the government, that further destruction of windmills will make it impossible to get 15%. renewable energy by 2020, as committed by the Polish government. And that means billions of punishments. Already in 2016, we observed and protested against the Law destroying wind power plants in Poland, so-called. distance, with conditions not to be met. You voted it out. The distance of the wind power plant's location from a residential building shall be at least ten times its height. There are virtually no such areas in Poland. This provision froze the implementation of new wind investments, and around the existing ones it excluded a huge amount of land. We were right. It's not much of a satisfaction. I do not know whether you are so incompetent or consciously lying in the government, because it is obvious that it is impossible to build wind power plants in Poland with the current provisions of this windmill law. You've destroyed an important branch of renewable energy, and at the same time you're increasing your investment in the coal economy, which is increasingly poisoning us. What about obtaining renewable energy from offshore wind power stations? So much noise and announcements, and it didn't work out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u150	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Melak. Your envoy isn't here. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki announced, as well as the government document of March 2017, that there will be 1 million electric cars in Poland in 2025. I wanted to find out where we are in the implementation of this plan, because if you take into account the number of electric cars purchased in Poland, it is a small number at the moment. Secondly, all electric cars must actually be new cars, while Poles are still on achievements and rather 2/3 of the cars bought from us are used cars. On the other hand, not only does the electric car have to be new, but it still has to be added that it costs about 50 more than a car with similar performance parameters, a non-electric, traditional car. So where will the Poles get such enormous money if such a car costs more than 100,000. Evil? One car. Thirdly, I have looked at the numbers that companies spend on the development of electric cars, these are multi-billion-dollar amounts, but in our case these amounts are small, hundreds of times smaller than what big global companies spend on the development of these cars. What is the Polish schedule of the investigation to this 1 million Polish timetable for the preparation of the Polish car? What happened to the competition that was announced for the Polish electric car? Has he been decided and what are the fates of this contest? Is the goal of 1 million electric cars in Poland in 2025 still real? What's the timeline for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u152	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice, as comes to power, to the government, always monopolizes and strengthens the monopoly on the energy market. The first time, the economic monopoly, now the technological monopoly. It was put on coal so strongly that the market felt that it would be supported by this monopoly, with the regulator of the market, which is an independent regulator - the Energy Regulatory Office, one could introduce such an energy policy. But what you did with the last bill, the price bill... Especially dangerous is the government self-correction to this law, which frozen energy prices ad calendas graecas at a constant level from mid-2018, which leads to the fact that the market is virtually gone. You've blown up the market, and no one can figure out how. The energy market regulator is expected to break down those barriers that create a monopoly so that this market can operate. Today no one knows how this market will work. It is likely that not only will new investors not be investing in this highly monopolized market, but will even bankrupt those entities that so far exist: four entities with a serious share of the State Treasury. But later the government will pay for imported coal, because only it will be, from the budget and citizens will consume this cheap electricity with a budget contribution. But this leads to a disaster not only in the energy market, but also in the budget disaster. How do you think this can be broken? ♪ 'Cause today's not just ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] This was mentioned at the Sejm meetings of the Energy Regulatory Office, but also by experts, and these are experts who are related to the PiS environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, As we remember, the current government submitted 2018 after extensive consultations, an amendment to the Renewable Energy Act, which introduced new RES support mechanisms. I am referring here to mechanisms based on a system of guaranteed tariffs such as FIP and FIT. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the question: What is the importance for renewable energy sources, and thus for investment and development of renewable energy sources, of the previously functioning RES support mechanisms based on auction mechanisms? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, a year in Poland 50,000. Poles die of diseases associated with environmental pollution, including air pollution. These are very often pneumonia, these are cancers, these are allergies caused by suspended PM2.5, PM10 particles in the air. Poland this year, or actually last year, in 2018, received the ugly Skamelina of the Year Award at the United Nations Climate Summit for the fact that Poland stands with coal, and for the fact that we breathe with such and not with other air. The first sentence has been passed, the state budget will have to reimburse, or actually pay for the diseases of specific people. There is currently a collective action against the state budget for life - especially in big cities - in terrible smog. Is it really not possible to move faster to renewable energy sources? Shouldn't we instantly introduce energy from the sun, from the water, from the wind? It's all around us. Is there anything more important than human life and health? It's not money, it's not coal, it's not work. Because in order for a man to use his goods, he has to be healthy. These strokes that have taken place over the last 3 years are completely inadequate. The number of deaths per year is about 3% higher. These are reports from the statistical office. I want to ask you, why is it taking so long? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do Poles not fight properly for their health? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u158	Thank you, Member. Please, last question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u159	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking about an important problem that is multidimensional. Starting from the beginning, it must be made clear that the Law and Justice committed original sin in the first year of their reign. This original sin is de facto the elimination of alternative energy sources and this original sin has its consequences. Unfortunately, these actions which you are undertaking are supposed to be in the interest of RES, and they are only such, I would say, propaganda action, because in fact those actions which you took at the beginning of your term of office, you simply canceled the development of alternative energy sources in Poland. And these consequences, Minister, are sad because, on the one hand, it is what Members said earlier, the cost of life of prematurely leaving, dying, even 50,000. People, that's like a middle-sized city gone. But this is also a kind of trend in Poland's achievement of sustainable non-competitiveness, as experts say. This is the energy mix, which is made up of coal, you can say half a joke: coal and coal, which the state as a part of coal is constantly introducing and maintaining. Plus, we have imports of coal from Russia. There was never anything in Poland's history to import Russian coal in such quantities and maintain the Russian economy. Really, this is some kind of abstraction. Plus, the absurd thesis of President Duda on the amount of coal that Poland would have had. Finally, the construction of an electric car for 400 million PLN. Of course, who knows about motoring, smiled [[♪ The bell ♪]] With a half-pocket. Therefore, I would like to ask the following questions: Firstly, will there be any provision in the amendment of the Energy Price Act to protect housing cooperatives from these increases? Secondly, do you have a way to protect Polish consumers from the permanent rise in energy prices resulting from such a coal policy, an energy coal policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u160	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Paweł Pudłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u161	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have listened to a very important debate. Not only the Minister's statement, the questions you asked, but also the whole sound of the situation in which Poland is currently present, are very important. I mean, you can't just go over it, saying there's no chaos, that you're controlling the situation, because the questions we've asked show that even us in the Seym, we don't know what your intentions are, we don't know if you're in control of the situation, and we're asking you specific questions. We ask specific questions and demand specific answers from you. Without them, you can't pretend you're in control, you can't say there's no chaos. It's chaos. There's a raise. What you're doing is changing the fact that people and entrepreneurs aren't going to see the price rise on the invoice. But they're gonna feel that price increase. It will be 9 billion or, as recently reported, 16 billion PLN, which will be paid from the budget. You will not see this on the invoice, but you will see this country in lowering the level of public and public services. That much less money will be in the system. So much less money will be on teachers, nurses, firefighters, cops, etc., etc. These increases will not be only in 2018. They, without deep state restructuring, will stay with us forever. What we're doing now is pouring it in for election year only. We're pretending it's okay. Individual governments explain that they are taking over a system, taking over a way of energy organization. Ladies and gentlemen, you must stop this. It can't go on like this. I'm really pushing for an energy round table. Contrary to appearances, we are not so different. The Minister said that in 2035 he wanted to have a little more than 50% based on coal, of the present almost 80%. We say 40. Let's meet. Let's talk. Let's talk about Ostrołęka because it's another anchor that's gonna hold us by the coal. Let's talk about nuclear power, because really, ladies and gentlemen, we're making a mistake as a country by engaging in outdated technology, very expensive technology, reliance on imports. This can be solved in a completely different way. Energy should not be burdened with the cadence of individual political parties, because the investment process, the horizon of investment in energy is 5, 10 and even 12 years. We really need to talk about this together, but not in the way you do. The minister just introduced us when he said everything was okay, that there was no chaos. The Minister apparently doesn't talk to entrepreneurs because entrepreneurs say it's not good that they don't know what it's gonna be like that there's no regulations. Let us not hide from the fact that in 16 countries the RES targets for 2020 may not be met. Let us look at what is important for Poland and Poles. These 36 out of 50 cities, which are the biggest poisoners in Europe, are here in Poland. Indirectly, this is the cause of death of almost 50,000. Poles a year. Of course, energy contributes to this to some extent, and there are other air pollutants that cause it. But energy is here, and that's what we're affected by. That's what we have direct influence on. So that I appeal to the Minister, I appeal to the PiS to open up to the debate. Whether or not you will have the support resulting from the fact that you are holding on to coal so tight is not clear. You can see that the wage expectations of the other side are rising and rising. You've aroused your appetites. Let us approach this pragmatically, responsibly and for years, not for one year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr. Tomasz Dąbrowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate today focused essentially on three areas, at least such questions were raised. One area concerns issues related to renewable energy sources and the achievement of the RES target. The second area concerned energy prices and the law governing the procedure, which is different this year than in previous years, as well as energy policy and some other issues, questions I have written down and I will try to answer them. I will start with this element related to the achievement of the RES target. I'll repeat what I said at the beginning. A large number of countries have problems with this objective. Only 12 out of 28 countries have already achieved their national target in final energy consumption. And here I will show you the graphics of what the situation is like throughout the European Union. These yellow colors mean countries that do not achieve or achieve this objective. What does that say? This is demonstrated, among other things. that the discussion on renewable energy targets was based not on an analytical, but on a political approach. [[Where is Poland? Yellow or red?]] Poland is marked in red so that it is clearly visible where we are. There are still yellow dots here that show the level of achievement of the goal. [[But will we achieve the goal or not? Because it's important.]] This shows that the discussion on such important issues, which should be based on facts that would result from decisions taken on the basis of detailed analyses, was political. As a result of the discussion, package 3 x 20 was adopted - it looks good politically, and then we will wonder how to separate it into individual Member States. And here's what we got. Those countries that have more opportunities to achieve the objective, such as: Austria or Norway, which is not in the European Union, but there is almost 98% energy comes from renewable sources, from water energy, are in a completely different place when it comes to achieving the RES target. One of the questions that came up was whether the government was going to liquidate part of the RES sector. I must say, this question is very interesting. Of course, we are talking here in the subtext about the wind energy segment. I'm going to start by saying that you basically have to treat it as fake news, because there's nothing in any government document about anything being destroyed. Nowhere has such a declaration been made. The changes that were made were only intended to calm certain social situations and to straighten out the reprehensible practices that emerged in the RES area, which are perceived by the RES itself. This is mostly about windmills. Various directories related to good practices are currently being developed, for example in the field of wind power plants. This is also confirmed by the fact that the government will continue to meet its RES targets and there is no question of eliminating anything. This is also confirmed by the fact that RES auctions have been carried out. [[With what result? With what result?]] I mentioned the auctions in 2018, in 2019 we anticipate the continuation of the auction. The available volume - this also concerned the question - of the energy offered under the RES auction will allow for the creation of up to 2.5 thousand. MW of new capacity installed in the offshore wind sector and around 700 MW of new capacity installed in the photovoltaic sector, provided that, of course, these auctions are submitted to mature enough projects to be viable. Currently, these issues are still under examination at the Ministry of Energy, but since the question concerned what the projections for 2019 are, I wanted to give these figures. Another issue focused on what action we are going to take to achieve the 2020 target. As I said, it is about the implementation of the 2019 auction in terms of wind energy on land, photovoltaics, at altitudes that allow the construction of the volumes I mentioned, i.e. 2,5 thousand. MW and 700 MW, unlocking the 10H rule at least for those investments which can be implemented in municipalities where social consent has been obtained. The continuation and popularisation of the Prosumer programme extended to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector - this applies inter alia. to a question that also rained. Develop a method to support investment in RES for technologies reaching market price levels in terms of grid parity. Perhaps it will resist, for example. on the bank guarantee system in place of the auction system, but this is only pre-signaled so far. Now, the question of what led to the debate on the failure to meet the 2020 target. First of all, please pay attention to the increase in energy consumption, the increase in statistics on the legal use of energy associated with, for example, the fight against the grey zone in the fuel sector, the elimination of disadvantages in the development of land-based wind energy, causing dissatisfaction of local communities... [[Two thousand sixteenth.]] ...and the reform of the RES support mechanism, including the prolonged notification of the earlier RES auction system. It had an impact on how linearly the issue of pursuing the goal itself was. As far as the issue of energy prices is concerned, the bill that was introduced... I explained what mechanisms it contained: a reduction in the excise duty rate, a reduction in the transitional charge, a fixing of the maximum price at a level not lower than that in June 2018 - for electricity and December 2018 - for transmission and distribution rates. At the same time, the legislator stated that this price was not higher than the price, i.e. noting that the energy market in part of the wholesale market so far operates, competition in the retail market is still possible, as it is possible to offer prices and rates below those resulting from the Act. And now from the audience's point of view, this bill... [[It's not gonna happen in practice.]] I don't agree that this is chaos. The recipients are made clear that they get the rate they had last year, unless there is an offer that will be lower. [[What does withdrawal mean, termination of contracts?]] I'll get to that. So from the audience's point of view, it's very clear here. What causes all these discussions and some anxiety may actually be about energy companies that want to figure out how much they might lose or how much more they can earn. Indeed, a regulation by the Minister of Energy, for which a delegation is foreseen in the Act, is needed for this purpose, and work is underway on this regulation. Questions concerning this law also focused on the Commission's opinion on this law, the mechanism set out therein, which is the Commission's opinion on the regulation. All I can say is that talks are currently underway with the European Commission, where I am also taking part. Firstly, we explain to the Commission how this mechanism works, how we would like it to operate throughout this year. I would like to remind you that, with regard to excise duty and the transitional levy, the solution that has been introduced is a permanent solution and, in terms of energy prices, a transitional solution. We are discussing with the Commission, on the one hand, the principle itself, on the other hand, the part of the solution which determines the amount of compensation. This affects various issues, among others. State aid, too. On the other hand, I will immediately answer the question whether it was notified as State aid: there is a possibility of introducing a mechanism which is based on services of general interest. In such a case, and there are judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in this respect, there must be a clearly defined obligation which is imposed on undertakings of general interest and there is a possibility of compensation for this obligation. Various methodologies and, among others, methods are used. the regulation which will be introduced in this area shall be discussed with the Commission in order to avoid any chaos associated with it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're showing something and then we're backing out. etc. [[It's six months too late.]] I will just say two more words about energy policy, which has already been widely presented, but I will be brief.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u164	Yeah, I'd really like two words. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Tomasz Dąbrowski: With regard to the proposal put forward by the Modern Club, I will only point out that, first, unlike in the case of energy policy, we have shown all assumptions, method of calculation, cost side, contrary to what was said here in the discussions. We have shown that, in the case of nuclear energy, we accept a cost of EUR 30 billion per GW. If we look at the proposal put forward by the Modern - I am already shortening - the difference in costs between what is proposed in the government document and what is in the Modern document is 150 billion PLN in favour of the government project. [[But who does?]] No matter who spends it. That's the cost. in the economy. [[Who's giving it away?]] What does that mean? The government project envisages the implementation of nuclear energy, and the difference that results from the comparison of both projects makes this nuclear energy project possible twice... [[You don't make a big difference.]] ...and the cost per citizen would be about $4,000. PLN more than the government project. When it comes to the fact that it would be worth discussing costs, of course, the public consultation we have announced on energy policy and the national plan is an opportunity to discuss it. At the outset, I said that the deadline for implementing the national plan is until mid-February. We invite everyone to submit comments, suggestions and comments on the document presented by the government party. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u165	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Please answer the following questions: 1. Is it true that Poland will not achieve its goal of 15% the share of renewable energy in total gross energy consumption in 2020? 2. Will we have to buy the missing energy from RES in those countries that meet their targets, and this could cost up to EUR 50.100 per MWh? 3. What is the total cost Poland will have to bear due to the failure to meet the 15% target ? 4. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Ms Jadwiga Emilewicz, recently declared at the party convention of her group that Poles - after the entry into the government programme When will the government reduce, as the Minister declared, the VAT rate from 23% to 8% on the installation of renewable energy installations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland has committed itself to the introduction of an energy and climate package in accordance with the EU Directive to ensure that action against climate change is implemented by Member States. According to these assumptions Poland will reach 15% by 2020 energy from renewable sources in general consumption. We know that the RES threshold has not been reached today. According to preliminary calculations of some organisations after 2020. Poland may pay multi-billion-dollar penalties for non-fulfilment of the undertaking. Therefore, please answer: What has the PiS government done for more than 3 years to increase RES' share in the energy market? After three years of government, did the wind turbines come? In addition, please answer whether the Ministry has prepared a cost analysis in case of failure to reach 15% energy production from RES.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u167	Please inform us how many tonnes of coal were imported to Poland in 2018. I'm asking you to name the countries from which the coal came. How much quality control was carried out on imported coal in 2018? Do the results of the audit indicate differences in the quality of coal extracted in Poland and imported from abroad? Were there any discrepancies found with regard to the parameters declared by the importers and the actual quality of coal? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u168	This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 31 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I close the list of Members who have been made to make statements. Mrs Alicia Chybick will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to raise the problem of late diagnosis of malignancies in Poland. Annually, 18.1 million people are ill in the world. In Poland, the incidence of cancer is increasing avalanchely. We expect that in the current year it will reach 180 thousand. disease. The healing of cancers depends on many factors, among others. from how quickly the cancer will be diagnosed. Tumours are our own cells, which, as a result of genetic deviants, multiply in an uncontrolled manner. Therefore, symptoms are very often not seen by adults or adolescents. Parents don't notice what's right for their kids. The conduct of the Polish Ministry of Health in this field for many, many years is aimed at not recognizing cancers mainly in advanced stages, but at recognizing cancers in stages one and two. The difference is diametrical. Apart from the most important issue, that is, the question of fighting for life, which is almost 100% available in stages one and two, I would like to say that in stages three and four curability is much lower, especially in the case of adult cancer. What should we do? A very wide social campaign is needed. I can say that for 45 years I have been ripping my throat off as an academic teacher at the Medical University in Wrocław, talking about the symptoms of cancer, about where to report, what to do. Actually, it's completely non-effectual. They need brochures at any point that will show Poles what symptoms may suggest the occurrence of cancer. The worst part is that cancer is most often mildly asymptomatic or asymptomatic. Symptoms can occur for many, many years, especially in adults. Color tumor can grow for 10 years, giving only discreet symptoms in the case of the gastrointestinal tract. What can and should be done systematically is to test every healthy child once a year. The point is that this study includes peripheral blood counts, abdominal ultrasound and, above all, a thorough physical examination with a thorough history. A professional can fish out such factors that may indicate cancer in a child. If you're an adult, you have to do the same thing. Perhaps once a year a study of each adult is too much, but undoubtedly at the age of 60, this should be a standard, because most often cancers occur in the elderly. There's also a need for a thorough examination, an interview, a peripheral blood count, abdominal ultrasound. In the detection of any symptoms, the smallest symptoms suggesting cancer, we need a deeper diagnosis. What I'm talking about isn't much, because CBC and ultrasound are harmless, cheap research. Physical examination won't hurt anybody either. We're gonna need media action. The media has been going on periodically for many years. Screening tests are carried out within the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid, there are special screening tests. It's all made some progress. It's not that long ago. The difference in the treatmentability of adult cancers compared to Western countries was almost 50%, and at the moment this difference is about 20%. But that's a lot too. It should not be that in Poland, when it comes to diagnosed and treated cancer, the patient may die, and if he goes beyond the German border, he will be cured. It is not only a matter of rapid diagnosis of the cancer, but also of rapid, in-depth diagnosis, and then of good, patient-specific treatment, depending on the stage of the cancer and how the patient responds to the treatment. Actually, it's been at a dead end for years. I can say that in the case of cancer in children there is also no progress in rapid diagnosis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is great progress in the case of curability, i.e. of 15% 85%, which is good, but we have a lot to do. First of all, the health system should focus on early recognition and not on the fight for life in terms of treatment, which is really more expensive than prevention. Thank you very much. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u170	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The declaration concerns the Council for Social Dialogue in Agriculture. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since 2016, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has had a Social Dialogue Council in Agriculture, the main task of which is to conduct social dialogue in agriculture. The fact is that the current Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski did not appoint her. However, this was done by his predecessor, who was part of the same ruling option. At present, the same procedures, the rules with regard to the current Minister, do not have any positive effects. The Minister works impulsively, he is unavailable, he has blocked the possibility of other officials of the Ministry's decision. He has only bet on two organisations: agricultural chambers and solidarity, and not yet entirely. The Minister's first statements have put the organisations of the Council of Dialogue in jeopardy. Over time, they have noticed that the Minister is ruthless and most of his proposed decisions are political, so as not to say - party. Many communities feel deceived, and protests have emerged. I am surprised that the Minister does not use advice to conduct dialogue between farmers and the Ministry of Agriculture, since it is the Council of Social Dialogue and should be a social shock absorber. The task of the Social Dialogue Council is to advise the Minister, to advise, to protect the interests of farmers and processors. Minister of Agriculture, why do you disregard the Social Dialogue Council you set up or your predecessor in a situation that is so difficult between farmers and the ministry? The Council should be a bridge between farmers, all those involved in agricultural production and the Minister, in terms of exchange of experience, positions on solving the very important issues to which it has been called. Is it supposed to be a facade or a screen for unfinished business in Polish agriculture? I am talking about equality between agricultural operators in agricultural production, the definition of a farmer, the importance of multi-family farms for agricultural production, including the recognition of agricultural production cooperatives as multi-family farms, as well as the issue of trade between agricultural operators and their land ownership. The Act on the Agricultural System, as well as on the trading of various properties, including agricultural property, has many disadvantages, which are a brake for the development of Polish agriculture, as can be seen from the background of European agriculture. According to the Polish Constitution, the basis of Polish agriculture is the family farm. Now we have more than 95%. farms of individual farmers. What kind of threat when it comes to accessing funds, e.g. for the modernisation of farms, are other forms of farm management? It's not a threat. If so, isn't it a curial, economical decision to cut these farms off from equal treatment? The Minister of Agriculture speaks in a superlative manner and praises the opinion of agricultural cooperatives in Poland. It already knows that it has a better, higher form of management, more efficient and widely used in European agriculture. It is therefore unacceptable that the Minister should not appear at meetings with the dialogue board he has set up and put policy and action in favour of his own party above the interests of the rule of law. Such actions will lead to an even greater deterioration of the state of Polish agriculture and subsequent protests. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit clearly that this minister, who is now ours, seemed to be prepared to carry out his duties, has promised us so much, to all farmers, that today he is becoming unbelievable. Then I made a statement to my fellow Members on this matter. I wonder if the Minister will be familiar with its content, will listen to its specific thesis and answer it. I would ask you very much, if possible, for a written reply. If not, that's fine. That's life. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-31-sejm-77-2.u172	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting is adjourned until 20 February 2019 until 6 p.m. 10. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 12 min 19]]
