ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u1	I promise. So help me God. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that Mr Waldemar Olejniczak has taken a vow of marriage. The Council of Ministers has submitted an urgent draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 (Print No 56). Therefore, pursuant to Article. 73. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this project at first reading. The group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law, print No 51. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee submitted a report on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, print No 55. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Social Insurance Act and the National Tax Administration Act, - to amend the Public Collective Transport Act. The reports shall be printed in no 54 and 52 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 53. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on the report on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting information on the 2030 strategy for sustainable rural development, agriculture and fisheries, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Members have made their formal submissions. Please, Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a big request for you marshal because the Civic Coalition Club tabled a draft resolution on 3 December regarding the recognition of the Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk. [[Applause]] I understand, Mrs Marshal, that at the Bureau meeting it was decided that this resolution would be adopted at this meeting, but next week. We believe that the whole world has already expressed its joy, honored our Nobel Prize winner. The Parliament of the Republic will be the last institution, but it is important that this happens. Therefore, I ask you, Mrs Marshal, to oblige the chairman of the Committee on Culture to have this resolution renegotiated at this session of the Sejm... Today. ...to get the culture committee together today. It's too important, there can't be any politics here. Literature and this award should bring us all together... He's not sharing, man. ...and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland (the bell) should adopt this resolution by acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u3	Thank you, sir. I fully agree that the Committee on Culture and Media should prepare the draft resolution as soon as possible so that it is over-divisible so that it can be adopted by the entire House. That was the unanimous position and Bureau of the Sejm and the Senior Convention, Mr. Thank you very much. It's just the chairman... Mr Krzysztof Paszyk with a formal proposal. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I would like to make a formal request for a break and a convent of the Convention of Seniors - the Convention, which is necessary in order to effectively supplement the agenda with a point which has already been notified by the Coalition Poland club in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, concerning information on measures aimed at combating the spread of the ASF virus which destroys Polish pig producers. [[Applause]] Ardanowski... Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with such a situation that the Minister constitutionally responsible for agriculture in Poland blames the political predecessors and wild boars. Firstly, there is a debate in this House that will make those who doubt that the ASF problem does not only concern farmers, but is a problem of the entire Polish economy and of all the consumers in this country. Secondly, this point is needed to finally, after many months, announce an effective programme to combat the ASF, with the allocation of measures. Minister, farmers are coming to protest now, and in a moment Poles will protest against high prices of pork. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u5	Thank you, sir. Mr President, I just wanted to let you know that I am not calling the Seniors Convention because the Seniors Convention was just a moment ago, and this was discussed and the Sejm Bureau and the Convention. This proposal, which is a very important proposal, is addressed to the Committee on Agriculture. It will be discussed there and the government's position will also be presented there. Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u6	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I make a formal request to interrupt the meeting and to convene the Seniors Convention in order to extend the agenda to include a point on the information of the Minister of Justice on the irregularities in the implementation of the programme. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're dealing with results that are unprecedented. NIK sent 16 notices to the prosecution on the implementation of this programme. It is about irregularities that may affect 27 cases which have been carried out with a breach of the Public Procurement Act, which could result in a loss of PLN 115 million - wrongly spent. Ladies and gentlemen! This case causes, and this is what NIK says, the formation of corrupt mechanisms. The High Chamber should have information about this situation (the bell) and Minister Ziobro should explain himself to the High Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u7	Thank you, sir. Mr President, I just wanted to clarify that when it comes to what you are asking for, the proposal must be submitted by noon. 21 the previous day. Therefore, I will not call the Senior Convention because this case is already decided. Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, also with a formal proposal. You're welcome. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask once again for an adjournment and for the most important issue in the economy and agriculture at the moment. I mean, he's gotten close to Wielkopolska, he's already there, ASF. Wielkopolska is 40% of pig breeding in Poland. [[Applause]] I would like to say to you - Minister Ardanowski should come out here and not run away from the answer - that we had two meetings of the Agriculture Committee and two meetings of the Agriculture Committee no one was concerned about ASF. People are losing their lives. ASF, Minister Ardanowski, under your rule - 16 months - covered 50,000. pigs in Poland, so much left in the bonfires, and you're lying, there were only 48 bonfires. Yes, but at the time, 50,000 were killed. pigs and 100,000. They disappeared from Poland. Question: "Shouldn't the Minister of Agriculture come out here and tell this House what's going on and what's his plan?" [[Applause]] We have the right to do so as Members of this House, and the Minister has a duty to answer that (the bell), not in a week, two weeks, just today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u9	Thank you, Member. Madame, this is a proposal that has already been tabled and I have explained what the procedure will be. I was explaining what the procedure would be, because this is the same application as the one that was made earlier. The matter is important and will go to the Committee on Agriculture, Member. You gotta start doing something. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, I get it, but first on the committee. Thank you. With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the letter we have submitted to your marshals, the parliamentary club of the Left asks under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to extend the agenda for information from the Prime Minister on the matter relating to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Marian Banas. Today, Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin said that the opposition is responsible for the fact that the President of NIK continues to perform his duties. It is scandalous and disgraceful that, as parliamentarians, we allow the Minister, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, to continue this role. The Prime Minister should explain why the Law and Justice allowed this nomination and why the special services failed to check on Mr Marian Banasi and, above all, why the Law and Justice - hand in hand with Mr NIK - would like to hold him in contempt of the Supreme Chamber of Control. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u11	Thank you, sir. I just wanted to clarify that these three same proposals I am sending to the Committee on Special Services, which will be held at this meeting of the Sejm, probably the 18th - because this meeting will continue on Thursday. Last formal proposal, Mr Romuald Ajchler, Left. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture, I asked the committee bureau to address the Sejm Bureau so that this body could extend the agenda to discuss government information on ASF disease developing in Poland. However, the Commission decided otherwise. Your marshal, referring to Mr Paszyk's speech, stated that he would address this issue on Friday 18 December. And this case will be discussed in depth. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that the matter of ASF, or African swine fever, has been discussed in this House and in committee meetings for 8 or 9 years. The effects of the actions are not visible. You can't see them, High Izbo, but Mr Ardanowski is not the only one who has sins here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It must be recalled that the guilty are also on the left side of the room. I'm sorry, I'm not thinking about the Left, but about the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Go ahead and finish it, sir. There was a genesis of omission of certain things. Mr Ardanowski has only one case. It is about informing about possible losses, about what threatens Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] Ooh...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u13	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, sir. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. Attack your brother...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u14	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 11, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Public Finance - 15 minutes after the end of possible votes, at 3 p.m. 11.30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - The Parliamentary Team - break up with the plastic. - h. 10.30, - Łódź Parliamentary Team - ca. h. 11.10, immediately after any votes, - Parliamentary Group for: UNESCO World Heritage in Poland - hour 11, - Świętokrzyskie Parliamentary Team - h.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Patients' Rights Team - h.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Energy and Climate Team - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Vaccinations and Promotion of Health - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Cascadeization of the Lower Vistula - hour 12.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Fair Energy Transformation - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Cities - hour 2.30 p.m. and 2.45 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Humanitarian Aid and International Humanitarian Law - h.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u15	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the urgent government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 (Print No 56). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Tomasz Robaczyński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. In the case of this project, the Council of Ministers decided on a quick legislative path resulting from the Article. 123 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The adoption of the draft regulation is not only necessary from a budget point of view. They are also important for society, as the project provides for the following regulations. Louder! The draft law contains provisions under which in 2019 additional funds are proposed to the National Health Fund to increase the reserve fund to PLN 2 billion to cover the increased costs of healthcare services. This year a significant part of the NFZ reserve fund has already been committed to cover the increased costs of health care services amounting to PLN 2.2 billion. In view of the potential possible budgetary savings that may occur still in 2019, it is planned, as in the previous year, to allocate some of these savings - up to PLN 2 billion - to the NFZ reserve fund in order to spend them by the NFZ in subsequent years. In order for this operation to be carried out, the transfer of these funds must take place by the end of 2019, which means that the Act must enter into force again this year. That's why it's urgent to process it. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be calm, because there is indeed no sound in what the rapporteur is saying. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Tomasz Robaczyński: In addition, the project provides for the possibility of allocating up to PLN 1 billion from the State budget to the Police Support Fund. This provision will make it possible to carry out to a greater extent the statutory tasks of the fund to cover investment, modernisation or renovation expenses and the maintenance and operation of police offices and to purchase the necessary goods and services for their needs. Further regulations concern the possibility of spending funds on the implementation of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in 2017-2020, the purchase of new ambulances for medical rescue and the property expenses of independent public health institutions of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. Those provisions introduce an exception to the principle expressed in Article. Article 181 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the outstanding amounts of State budget expenditure shall expire on the end of the financial year. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid Therefore, the aim of the proposed solutions is to allow the spending of funds included in the State budget for the implementation of the above mentioned. tasks by the end of April 2020. These measures will be treated in a similar way to the non-extinguishable expenditure provided for in the Public Finance Act. Having regard to the above and the need to make available the Article. Article 181 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 5th Public Finance Act, i.e. the need to transfer funds by the end of the year to the separate expenditure account of the current state budget, is justified by the urgent procedure of the project in question. I was talking about the fact that it is also justified by the need to transfer funds - or to allow funds to be transferred - to the NFZ reserve fund and the Police Support Fund by the end of this year. In view of the above, I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u17	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 from print No 56 aims to create a legal basis for the transfer of additional appropriations from the budget - up to PLN 2 billion - to the increase of the National Health Fund's reserve fund for the provision of health care and additional funds - up to PLN 1 billion - to the Police Support Fund, the Central Fund. At the same time, the second important message, the task of this project, an urgent government project, is to make certain expenditure inexhaustible, which will enable it to be used after the end of the financial year, by 30 April 2020. These funds will be transferred from the state budget, and specifically from expenditure blocked under the Public Finance Act, without prejudice to the tasks planned for these expenditures, as they will come from budgetary savings made, which is natural in the implementation of the budget. The use of funds by both the NFZ and the central support fund will follow the approval of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. public finances, relevant health ministers and internal affairs and administrations. These expenses will include funds for the implementation of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in 2017-2020, expenditure on the purchase of ambulances for medical rescue and property expenses - some for independent public health care facilities under the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The project submitted deserves the support of the fact that, thanks to the savings made in the implementation of the budget, it makes it possible to increase the resources for carrying out such tasks, in which there is a great need, inter alia. as regards accessibility to healthcare services, improving their quality, as well as the question of state security. The project that we are debating at the same time demonstrates an effective, efficient financial policy, fiscal policy, a state budget that allows for the adjustment of budgetary capacity without prejudice to public finances to better, more rational performance of tasks by some departments. E.g. These changes will increase the funds for investments, modernisations, renovations as regards police units, as well as the increased costs of maintaining certain police units, for the purchase of various goods and services, i.e. for property expenses. We believe that the project is justified, that it will make it possible to significantly improve the performance of health and safety tasks. We believe that we urgently need to debate this project in order to be able to use these resources effectively, in accordance with the proposal. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of a quick process on this project that we support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u19	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This is another episode in the fifth year of the series titled. The ruining of the state, the ruining of the law and the ruining of public finances by the PIS. Ruining public finances - because this bill pushes further funds beyond the spending limit from a stabilizing expenditure rule, Minister, [[Applause]] And you know perfectly well that it's really about that and that. Well, you've spent more than you could have spent about 17 billion this year. You've exceeded the limit of a stabilizing spending rule, and in fact you could put Marian Banasia before the Court of State for the same thing. But you hold this left hand by the right ear and press the Solidarity Fund because you are afraid that Banas will pull the entire Council of Ministers before the Court of State, because the entire Council of Ministers has agreed to spend PLN 15 billion more than the Polish government allows. If we wanted to look for parallels with the world of ordinary people who do not need to know each other on budgetary principles, public finance functions, but understand perfectly that the sustainability of public finances is a guarantee that every Polish pensioner will get his pension every month... [[Applause]] And now you're spoiling this stability and acting like a man, a revelry, a light-spirited, a loser, who's gonna spend everything he's got, he's gonna get safe loans, but still not enough. So he takes the moments and then he goes into the debt spiral. That's what you do to Poles. In fact, I am very sorry for the minister who is responsible for this budget, because you are a great, professional official of the Ministry of Finance and probably when the Civic Coalition wins the PiS elections, you will probably still be responsible for this budget because we do not throw out competent people. We don't accept Misiewicz. You know perfectly well that we didn't do any cleaning at the Ministry of Finance and we didn't bring in the people who started the VAT mob there. I don't know if it's on your floor or if it's on your floor. [[Applause]] So I sympathize with you, Minister, because you will probably be eating with us and with all the Poles in the next few years. In three ways, PiS corrupts the Public Finance Act and celebrates the Public Finance Act. First of all, like I said, he's breaking a stabilizing spending rule. It's exactly as Mr. Louis Kotecki's former chief economist said: "The corpse is already in the room, now you're just covering your tracks and burying the corpse in the closet." That's exactly what you're doing with this bill and the previous ones we've taken and which are in the Senate today. This bill is another 3 billion PLN, or maybe even 4 you would exceed this limit, so you take it out of this limit, for which the finance minister is responsible, you put it in the NFZ. With this NFZ, it's really another dead body and this time you're powdering it, because you know perfectly well that in order to finance the benefits, you need 15 billion PLN. These 2 billion won't give you anything. That's what you're giving because you're over the limit and you're just afraid of it. You're wearing this at the National Health Fund, which is why we can't vote against it, because your propaganda is gonna go out on the street and say, "We didn't want to give it to the National Health Fund, but the bad opposition doesn't want it, which is obviously not true." The second way in which you break the law in this law is by creating a reserve which according to the Public Finance Act from the funds blocked by the articles. 177 can only be used to pay the dues of the State. And you will spend it differently. For what? Attention, police. How is this fund going to be issued under this law? Except the Seym at all. We won't need it. Today we argued about changes in the financial plan (the bell) of the Minister of Culture. This fund, ladies and gentlemen, will be completely outside the Sejm, because the police, the Minister of State Kaminski, will turn it in as he pleases and as he pleases. That's what this bill is for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u21	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u22	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Budget Act is one of the most important laws for State action. Today, a project is being presented to us on the implementation of this year's budget, which is intended to enable the transfer of funds for public tasks to be carried out this year and to use them after the end of the financial year. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that the government wants to implement the budget as correctly as possible. After all, he recently assured that his execution would be thoroughly analysed. Its quality, in line with its responsibilities, will be ensured by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, who will undoubtedly check very closely how the government managed public finances. We are pleased that the standards of state control are improving, although we are not happy with the reason for this. However, we find it unacceptable to assume the mode in which the project is carried out. We receive it as envoys and envoys at hours. 20 days before the Sejm meeting. At that time, we are unable to analyse the government's proposals in depth and our experts are unable to assess the real impact of the government. Deciding from day to day on the allocation of a considerable amount of PLN 3 billion is a frivolous treatment by the PiS government and all of us in this House and our voters. This clearly shows the extent of the mess and degrengolad that we are currently dealing with in the country. In a country that we should protect and manage wisely, because that is what people expect of us. The Prime Minister has talked a lot about cooperation and that is what we expect from him. Meanwhile, the Sejm is treated as a party voting machine. That's not how the responsible authority works. This isn't what a modern country looks like. The result is a number of laws written on the knee and legal bases, the consequences of which are later borne by citizens. It is not for this as Members that we take a lot of money to company such low standards of government management. We expect the government to fix this state quickly. As a Left, we are always in favour of improving the situation in health care and raising public service standards. We know what the quality of police work is - we are in favour of improving the quality of police work. That is why we have decided to support the proposal, although we do not support the procedure in which it is being examined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u23	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party. The finale. There's no envoy. Then we move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club. One minute to ask a question. There's no envoy. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As to how this project is being implemented, my club has already referred to it. But I have the following question. There are records of spending money on the police, Border Guard, State Fire Department - and it is very good that this is happening; indeed, we know that these are individuals that are underfunded. My question, however, is: How will you spend over PLN 100 million in the next three months, taking into account the Public Procurement Act? Either there are already some projects that are being implemented, for which there is no money, and they need to be supplemented, or there will indeed be a serious problem with spending these funds. The same is true of the statement that the financing of these tasks will come from the appropriations obtained from blocked expenditure. Well, 3 billion zlotys of spending blocked... So the question is: What are we not going to do this year, and in this budget, so that this bill can be implemented? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the amount of PLN 2 billion that will be transferred to the National Health Fund for the provision of health care. Perhaps the question is how much of this amount will be transferred to the extension of hospitals, because the situation in hospitals is dramatic. When will this money be transferred to the extension of these hospitals, and what criteria will be applied when allocating these funds per institution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u27	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice has for several years been on the banners of the health system, two demands: shortening queues to specialist doctors and extending hospitals, in particular district hospitals. As we all know, here, in this room and outside this room, none of these demands have been met. The queues to specialist doctors did not, in fact, shorten most of the benefits - radically extended - while hospitals are in debt to power. Today their commitments reach between PLN 14 and 17 billion, depending on how we count them. Minister, therefore, my very specific, precise questions. What exactly will the funds be allocated to the National Health Fund? And can we really hope to improve the health system? Because today we know that this system is on the verge of collapse, he's barely waving. Hospitals are out of order today. And as well as you're guessing, we're all interested in the health system because we either have someone close to us (the bell) who's unfortunately been affected by the disease, or we're sick ourselves. So this is an urgent commitment to Poles. I'm asking for a fair answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. There isn't. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, PSL - Kukiz15. There isn't. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, PSL - Kukiz. There isn't either. Please, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The protest of the inhabitants of Grodków and the municipality against the liquidation of night and Christmas medical care in Grodków is ongoing from 1 January 2020 as part of the recovery plan for the Brest Medical Centre. I have a question: Will the money that will be spent on the NFZ be used to stop the liquidation of hospitals, hospital wards and Christmas medical care so that citizens and citizens can feel safe? The liquidation of night and Christmas medical care in Hrodna will deprive access to efficient and safe medical care of 20,000. persons. Every hospital unit that is closed under the rule of law and justice is, as a result, another person who does not have access to health protection of good quality. I would like to know exactly what this money will be spent on, and how Law and Justice plans to stop this plague of closing hospital departments and Christmas care (the bell) and hospitals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u31	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what I am happy about - that in this around budget bill there is no money going on public television, because it is wasted money. That's what I'm happy about. But I'm not happy about the way you transfer money to the National Health Fund. Why? Minister, well, you're an emperor: 2 billion zlotys and no one knows what they're destined for. Last year, the amount slightly above PLN 1 billion gave you freedom: to overexercise, to certain procedures that you wanted to introduce, so that there would be higher benefits for this. There's nothing here. We don't know anything. 17 billion hospitals' debts, a ruling by the Constitutional Court saying that the rulers are responsible for health care and for all these debts, and you are sleeping. 18 months - the law needs to be changed. And in this respect, Minister, we are waiting for the Minister and the Prime Minister to approach the health issue reliably so as not to close the hospitals. I also wanted to ask you what the debt of hospitals under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration looks like, because that's what you're giving money to as a conductor... Finish it, Member. ...and you don't care about the others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u34	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! We have heard here about the direction of the transfers, but we have not really heard exactly what these measures might go for. I would like to say, Minister, that the situation in county hospitals in West Pomerania is catastrophic. And it's not the government's fault. These are undervalued procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like a clear answer as to whether these measures can go and go to county hospitals as well. But no one said here, from this tribune, that we also have a catastrophic situation when it comes to education subsidies. If there is, ladies and gentlemen, so well, then let us help these local governments, because they are taking out loans for functioning today. That's really the situation. I'm asking you to, and I'm calling for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u35	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The support of police and health services is justified, but you do not respect the spending rule, you do not care about the sustainability of public finances. How can you break the spending rule? The reserve, which is intended to be used for the payment of outstanding liabilities, should be addressed, as my predecessor said, to local government units for the payment of salaries to teachers, because local governments are not investing for this reason, they are already short of current expenditure. I ask: When are you going to return the money spent on the maintenance of education to local government units - this is a huge problem, I do not know if the Minister is aware of it - and when are you going to compensate for the lost income from PITs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u37	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u38	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In accordance with the grounds set out in the first subparagraph, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Regulation (EC) No And right away, Minister, the question is whether these are the same ambulances as the ones standing in Wrocław, to which the prosecution is conducting proceedings. It is not known why ambulances, which were supposed to save Poles, are not used because someone did not ensure the basic elements of the public contract. So, Minister, please explain: What kind of ambulances are these? Is it that these ambulances will be permanent again and instead of saving the lives of Poles, they will be part of the design of parking lots, or have you implemented any procedures that prevent this type of (the bell) scandalous cases that the government has funded for Poles over the past years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Three questions, because it's really serious. I ask the Minister to confirm whether the funds issued by the National Health Fund and the Police Support Fund are outside the limit of expenditure of the rule, except for the part for which the Minister of Finance is responsible. The second question concerns this third way of ruining the Public Finance Act. It's about the unexpired. These funds may be spent by 30 March of the following year. Why are you extending this deadline for another month? You really can't buy ambulances in three months? That's when you don't go unexploded. And the third question. Why do you allow the funds of the Police Support Fund to be removed not only from the control of the Sejm, as I have already said, but even from the control of the Minister of Finance? The funds in this fund may be changed freely, without the approval of the Minister of Finance and the Committee on Public Finance. Given what the special forces are doing in Poland, this is a robbery on a straight path. We give Kaminski 1 billion PLN completely out of control - public money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u41	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are already giving this money and the Civic Coalition will most likely not be against this law. But they will immediately press on the question, in connection with the speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who was talking about helping the county hospitals. Minister of Health, I would like to know if this money - but it is huge money, 2 billion PLN - will you spend some kind of pot to save county hospitals? Especially the hospital in the Pomeranian Stone, which threatens not to shut down any branches anymore, but to close down at all. And it is a hospital located on the coastal, tourist area, which every year visits at least 200,000. people, and for these people also this hospital is, that is, for the safety of our Poles, our tourists. The second question therefore 1 billion PLN for Minister Kaminski. Minister Kaminski, I do not know if you know, but local governments, especially local authorities in tourist towns, participate every year in the safety costs of our tourists. Will you allocate the amount to build a new precinct in the Rewal commune with this money? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u44	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 2 billion is not enough to close down the biggest train to specialists in history, as well as not to indebt hospitals. Minister, in my opinion, the government is not implementing the 6% bill. GDP for health protection. You promised this to the residents, in return the residents received instruction from the Senate Marshal, who was on unpaid leave on paid duty. Ladies and gentlemen, the percentage of GDP does not relate to GDP before a year or to forecasts. You're referring this percentage of GDP to the period 2 years ago. What's the situation? Poles spend an average of PLN 1551 per year on private medical services and this is a real problem. These funds must be spent from their own savings, from their own pensions, from their own salaries, and this should be met by the NFZ. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is hard not to resist the impression that the series entitled: The sustainable budget of the State continues to be the best. He was balanced, and at the previous meeting of the Sejm he was no longer balanced, because there was a persistent search for how to find the missing funds, and today again he is balanced, and we share the surplus. First of all, I wanted to ask the Minister of Health how it was that he didn't want 2 billion at the previous meeting of the Sejm, even though we offered him this increase in excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol to take over, and now he wants 2 billion, because that's what's written on the broad-based health care. Second question. I'd like to expand on what this NFZ backup fund has to secure, because it's pretty vague. And third question: How can Polish farmers be in such a difficult situation, with surplus not securing any measures to combat the effects of African swine fever (The Bell)? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister how it happened that the government finally discovered that the Polish Police were underinvested. I'd like to ask you specific questions. What will they be destined for? Measures? Will these be Christmas presents for the chosen precincts? Will this money go for our safety, that is, increasing the number of policemen? I remind you that the number of vacancies in the Police under the rule of law and justice continues to increase and by the end of 2018 the number of vacancies reached 4294. And the second question about the health system. I would like to ask the Minister of Health, at what stage is the Ministry with work on the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which has ruled that local authorities cannot cover hospital losses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u49	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes the questioning. Mr Janusz Cieszyński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, answers the questions first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u50	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Thank you so much for these questions. First of all, I also wanted to thank you for the fact that - it looks like - we already have such a completely suprapolitical agreement that these funds to the National Health Fund are worth passing on. I'm very happy for you. I am very pleased that these declarations, which you made before the elections, are now confirmed in your positions. As regards specific questions, Mrs Czernow asked when the extension of hospitals would be. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Surely you know that the National Health Fund under the Act cannot be the founding body of any medical entity. Moreover, the National Health Fund does not have among its tasks of extending health care institutions, only the purchase of benefits, i.e. the purchase of further services for Polish patients. But that's what the minister is for, and you're talking about government money. We're not interrupting. It's not a coffee shop. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm trying to answer the questions as best I can. If you need anything... Weak. Thank you. Mrs Kołodziej asked what the money would be for. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth saying that thanks to the good economic situation, thanks to the good results of the state budget has been systematically successful for three years each year actually in a very similar formula - it always happens around December - to allocate additional funds precisely through this reserve fund to the National Health Fund. In 2017, the Council The National Health Fund received PLN 1 billion, which was allocated to the repayment of over-executions from the time when the Civic Platform and these overexecutions were not paid. Last year... We paid, Minister. Don't lie to me. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Then PLN 1800 million was transferred in 2018 to the Around Budget Act, which was used in two tours this year for the purchase of benefits. These funds were allocated, among others. For an increase in hospital prices, it was designed to shorten queues to cataract surgery, to study CT scans, to examine magnetic resonance imaging. We as the Ministry of Health, as the National Health Fund, got acquainted with the bill yesterday. These funds will go to the general budget of the National Health Fund and at a time when... What will they be spent on next year? It's the finance minister that's useful. Ladies and gentlemen! At a time when these funds will enter the National Health Fund, we will change the financial plan accordingly, and such a change in the financial plan is assessed each time by the Sejm committees, both by the Health Committee and by the Public Finance Committee, whose members have already spoken on this issue many times today, so we will be happy to answer all these questions when we present to you. just change the financial plan of the National Health Fund. This is also the answer to Mrs Zawisza's question, which asked what this money would be spent on. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to talk about directions, it is best to look at the electoral program with which Law and Justice went to win elections. It's not a campaign. It's about people's problems. You're welcome... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Ladies and gentlemen! There is a clear indication of what we want to use these funds for. This is, among other things. the extension of the Unlimited Financing Programme for Specialised Advices. Now it's done in the case, as I said, of cataracts, CT scans, magnetic resonance imaging. We want to expand the spectrum of specialist advice. In primary health care program to pay for the result. I'm sure you've all observed that in the days of the rule of law and justice in January, family doctors' offices are not closed because the National Health Fund has no money to pay these doctors. E.g. for this money and a total of over PLN 93 billion the financial plan of the National Health Fund will be spent. It was Mr Rzepa's question whether these funds would go to county hospitals as well. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very good chance that these funds will go there because we systematically increase funding for county hospitals as part of the available funds. Only this year there are three increases in prices per year, with effect from January, and more than 900 million PLN additional funds for district hospitals, those hospitals that are closest to patients. Mr Suchoń asked if these were the same ambulances as those standing in Wrocław and whether someone had made sure of the tenders. Dear Member, the ambulances that stand in Wrocław have been bought by a sub-voivodeship in which the Civic Platform, the director of the emergency service, is governed. Now in Lower Silesia the situation has changed and there are additional measures, among others. For ambulances. These ambulances, ladies and gentlemen, will be sent to institutions throughout the country, while not all dispatchers were able to use these resources, among others. West Pomeranian emergency services of seven ambulances were not able to buy in time. Let me remind you that we have spent 200 ambulances: 150 were able to buy, and 50 we need a little more time to buy, until the end of April next year. As for Mr Łącki's question about county hospitals, I think I have already answered that question. Mr Szczerba asked about the law 6% And why it's counted that way. Mr President, I have had the opportunity to see that you voted in favour of this provision... What was I supposed to do? And what was to be done when it was better? ...you voted in favour of the provision of this content and you probably voted in favour because it is a rule in the form that one to one is transferred from the agreement that Prof. Łukasz Szumowski has concluded with representatives of the residents' agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the content... The residents don't get it. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, this is an agreement whose content is available on the Internet and everyone can get acquainted with it. Everyone can also read the content of the Benefits Act and this particular provision, and when you compare these issues, you will see that the situation is exactly as I am describing it to you now. Then change it. Regarding Mr Paszyk's question - why we did not want PLN 2 billion of excise duty - then, ladies and gentlemen, these are the funds that are in the budget... These funds that we are spending today are budgetary resources. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we supported the project that led to an increase in excise duties revenue, so that there would be more resources in the state budget and that the resources that we are talking about today could be implemented. In the past, tax revenues were much lower and there were no additional resources for the National Health Fund. When Law and Justice rule - 1 billion, 1.8 billion and up to 2 billion PLN this year. As regards the judgment of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen, we respect the judgments of the courts. As you certainly know, after such a judgment is passed, the court prepares a detailed justification and it is difficult to imagine that it should be written on its knees before such justification is presented to us. When the Ministry receives it, it will also be available, made public, we will immediately proceed to work to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal within a time limit which has been indicated, i.e. 18 months, without delay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u51	Thank you, Minister. Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions that have been raised in this debate, I will say yes. Expenditure not extinguishing the modernisation programme of 103 million is not expenditure which depends on current public procurement. These orders have already been completed, and quite efficiently. For various reasons, some part of the investment expenditure from the modernisation programme has been delayed, for various reasons some investments have been delayed, i.e. 41 items to be completed or surrendered at the beginning of next year. These payments must therefore be shifted as non-extinguishable expenditure, i.e. 61 million police expenditure, 19 investment items, Border Guard - 13 items, 37 million incomplete, State Fire Department - 5 items, 4,5 million, and State Security Service - 1,3 million PLN. Here are the contracts signed, these are classic non-extinguishable expenses that will be realized at the beginning of next year. There is a question of increasing the Police Support Fund by PLN 1 billion. I would like to remind you that the Polish Police must carry out their tasks efficiently. It must carry out the maintenance of its facilities, means of transport. These expenditures will be allocated, may be allocated to certain investment, modernisation, renovation, maintenance and operation costs of police offices, as well as to the purchase of necessary goods and services. This is a significant increase in the financing of statutory police tasks concerning public security, internal security and the security of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember times not so far away, five years ago, six, seven, eight years ago, when we heard all the time that there wasn't enough paper in the police, that there wasn't enough fuel in the police, that there wasn't everything in the police. The cops are missing. We are trying to ensure that the Polish Police are well stocked and that they can carry out security tasks efficiently. I am convinced that they are being implemented more and more efficiently, but financial resources are needed for this, because, as you know very well, honourable Members, security is an extremely costly area. The cops... That is why we want to carry out these tasks and allocate funds to the Police Support Fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What about the vacancies, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u53	Thank you very much. And the last question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tomasz Robaczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In general, from the financial side... The question was whether the National Health Fund was included in the spending regulation. The construction of the expenditure rule is multi-stage. That wasn't the question. Is he in the part for which the Minister of Finance is responsible? She clarified the question: Is it in the part for which the Minister of Finance is responsible? In general, the Minister of Finance is responsible for whether he exercises general supervision of public finances and, therefore, everything within the broadly understood concept of public funds is under the general supervision of the Minister of Finance. Of course, under the direct supervision of the Minister of Finance, there is really a state budget as such. All other funds or all other forms in which public funds are spent are subordinated to individual managers and, of course, the budget is also divided into parts subordinated to individual directors. The Minister of Finance has control over the whole, that he makes de facto physical payments to those directors or transfers funds, increases financial plans and controls implementation. It is difficult to answer the question whether the NFZ is under the supervision of the Minister of Finance. And it is, and it is not, and the funds that are spent by the National Health Fund are also included in the structure of the expenditure rule, but, as I said, this is a rather complicated process of calculating the funds that can be spent in a given financial year. This construction is multi-stage, but in short, the National Health Fund funds also influence the size of the stabilising expenditure rule. That's one thing. Secondly, there were such voices here, and they had already appeared before, that a stabilizing expenditure rule had been broken. A stabilizing expenditure rule has not been broken. In fact, it will be possible to check whether it has been broken after the end of the financial year. During the year so far... This is also the task of the Minister of Finance, but also of the entire Council of Ministers, which directs the implementation of the state budget, not to allow this rule to be exceeded, and this rule has not yet been exceeded. If it is exceeded, then of course appropriate steps will be taken by the relevant authorities, including the High House, but, as I say, the role of the Minister of Finance is to prevent and not to do so. So that the law was definitely not broken here. With regard to the total exclusion from the control of the Minister of Finance of these funds for the Police Support Fund, this provision, which is in the Act, only applies to the modification of the financial plan as regards the payment which is made by that law, and how the allocation of funds... And that billion. Yeah, but this is just the moment of the deposit, I mean. We regulate it by law. Since there is a law, this deposit does not have to go through the whole Seym procedure, as does all other changes in the special purpose funds, because it is already regulated in this law. On the other hand, if these funds are already spent from the Police Support Fund, directed towards specific things, then any change of such destiny will of course be assessed, under the supervision of the Minister of Finance and will be evaluated by the High House. There were also questions about education subsidies, increased subsidies, support for local governments. This topic is quite widely discussed, it has already been discussed several times in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. At the last meeting of this committee were also the Minister of National Education and the Minister of Finance. This discussion is intended to lead to a fundamental reconstruction of the finances of local governments as such, it is not only about education subsidies, but also about the financing of local government and the power of local government, but it requires the reconstruction of the entire income system of local government units. Now they will work together within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, which will develop changes in this area. I hope that this will be achieved, because indeed the law on the income of local government units is years old and requires changes. There's one more thing that's important about this bill. It's not like they're going to transfer this 2 billion PLN to the NFZ and 1 billion PLN to the Police Support Fund... Yeah, 'cause that's what this is about. We are now waiting for the result of the state budget and final accounts. At the end of the year we see which of the funds will not be used in the end and which of this year's funds Alternatively, the National Health Fund and the Police Support Fund could still be allocated. Therefore, the law contains a limit, not a specific size, i.e. this is up to 2 billion and up to 1 billion PLN. The question is, what are these measures going to be, what are we going to block? We will block what will not be used in the normal implementation of the state budget. This has always been the case in the state budget, i.e. some percentage - between 2% a 4% the state budget - it is not used for various reasons: the transfer of tenders, savings in tender procedures, the inability to accurately estimate the resources necessary for use in the various spheres at the beginning of the year, etc. So that we don't lose our resources, that is. so that they do not expire at the end of the year, we provide in this Act for the possibility that these measures may still be transferred for appropriate purposes this year, but only if there are actually savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u55	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm send an urgent draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 73. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee enabling it to be examined today. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws (print No 43). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Bittel to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, contained and described in print no. 43. This project is one of the priorities of the government, one of the priorities of the Ministry of Infrastructure, because it combines with actions related to combating communication exclusion of many Polish cities, towns and villages. In 1990, nearly 26 thousand were in operation in Poland. km of railway lines. Today there are much fewer of them, because in liquidation processes or in the absence of operation about 7 thousand disappeared. km of railway lines, which - can be said in a large simplification - resulted in a lack of access to the railway service for 1/5 of the area of our country. This also resulted in the next step in not serving about 100 towns over 10 thousand. residents in the framework of rail transport. Therefore, the aim of the government is to counter the exclusion of communication, to eliminate this bad phenomenon. Such actions are consistently undertaken in the framework of the implementation of the national railway programme, the maintenance programme. These programmes are related to investments in railway networks, renovations and ongoing maintenance. We want to step up this process, implement it at a better pace. This is also served, among others. this law, which gives a number of instruments that can be applied within the framework of the project that I mentioned earlier. Firstly, we clarify the conditions for winding up railway lines in order to eliminate their uncontrolled decommissioning without the knowledge and consent of the relevant authorities. For this purpose, the consent of the Minister responsible for the operation shall be restored. transport to the elimination of the railway line or section of the railway line. We clarify the winding-up procedure through the obligation to carry out analyses and inform stakeholders and bodies of their intention to liquidate. We also introduce the possibility of punishing money for the liquidation of a railway line or a railway siding in breach of the law. This possibility is created for the President of the Railway Transport Office as an independent regulator in this area. The second important aspect is to enable local government units to lend property remaining after decommissioned railway lines or their sections. And this is flexibility, because at the moment we can transfer to the local government real estate for use for transport work, but we also want to be able to not necessarily final regulation, transfer real estate. It is also about the elements related to the loan, so that the local government can possibly use them for its purposes, but that we have a maintained transport corridor within the meaning of not necessarily wooden foundations and an old, exploited railway line, but within the meaning of the real estate which such a transport corridor... Its maintenance will allow for a certain future e.g. to reactivate the railway line if the need is diagnosed. The third important issue is the implementation of voivodship railway links outside the voivodship border. It is about the possibility of moving beyond the border of the voivodship up to 30 km. At the moment this situation is described differently: the nearest station. This is not the solution that makes the rail system coherent. In contact situations we sometimes deal with the fact that the train does not travel a few kilometers further to some station, to an important centre abroad of its voivodship due to a lack of agreement between voivodship authorities. We give this opportunity to act without this agreement up to 30 km. At the same time, we provide incentives for the possibility of funding the Railway Fund to modernise the repair of rolling stock vehicles, rolling stock or to purchase them, if such good, favourable railway network solutions for the rail system are introduced. The fourth very important issue is the improvement of investment processes. The first amendment worth mentioning is the extension of the special provisions that we have in the Rail Transport Act, Chapter 2b, by the end of 2030, because the application of these provisions as special provisions must be specified on a specific date. Now, as far as this date is concerned, this is the end of 2020. We will invest huge money in the Polish railroad in the coming years and in the next EU perspective. Therefore, we must have special provisions that will facilitate and simplify this procedure. As part of these simplifications and facilitations, we allow 70% advance payments to property owners as a result of analyses of these processes which we are currently conducting. compensation for the limitation of the use of the property covered by the decision to determine the location of the railway line within 30 days from the date of the application. You can say that this is a rule that is similar to the rule of the road special. We simplify the financial guarantee system for the largest beneficiary of public funds, i.e. PKP PLK. A detailed plan for the implementation of the national railway programme will be the main guarantee instrument. It is important to provide for the transfer by the Minister responsible for public finances at the request of the Minister responsible for Transport to PKP PLK of fiscal securities intended for the increase of share capital and the possibility of allocating funds obtained from these securities for the execution of investments. We also regulate the issue of maintaining road or network infrastructure implemented as part of modernisation investments, I mean viaducts and parallel roads, so that the burden of maintaining these roads to a certain extent is borne by the competent local authorities. An important change is the inclusion in the provisions of special investments related to the construction of new tram lines if they are outside the public road lane. This will also clearly make it easier to invest in this mode of transport. And that, in my opinion, is the most important segment. There are still a few minor issues, such as the clarification of the rules for the calculation of charges for access to service facilities or services, the implementation of our legal order of the TSUE judgment, which ordered the passenger platform to qualify for the elements of the railway infrastructure, i.e. the minimum access package. There is also a question of the regulation of the protection of the company's secrets or other legally protected secrets in administrative proceedings conducted by the Railway Transport Office. It is a change in the Code of Civil Procedure, which is intended to safeguard the protection of the company's secrecy in this proceeding. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! This is a very important submission which will create the conditions for us to implement the national railway programme and maintenance programmes and to build an even better transport system for our country. Please accept this proposal positively and give it a high priority and, as a result, adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u57	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jerzy Poleczek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of our club on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print No 43. Mr Andrzej Bittel described this project in very detail. I would just like to highlight once again the key elements which reflect the essence of this very important government amendment that accelerates rail investment, which offers new opportunities for cooperation with local authorities and which also implements European solutions in a very active way. I would like to remind you that the objectives of this project include the creation of such legal instruments as will be better able to prevent, first of all, the undesirable degradation of railway infrastructure in Poland, and this was one of the most noticeable phenomena in the public opinion, in particular after 1989. The more specific objectives of this amendment are, as I said, to make it difficult for railway lines to be wound up and to stop the degradation of railway infrastructure in areas along railway lines that have already been decided to terminate them. This is, further, the regulation of rail connections at the borders of voivodships, the removal of barriers and problems concerning the effective implementation of railway investments, in particular under the national railway programme, with the participation of European funds, the creation of an opportunity for the implementation and implementation of road infrastructure in the framework of the ongoing investments concerning the modernisation of railway infrastructure, and then the management and maintenance of built road infrastructure, or the cessation of the unauthorized communisation of the State Treasury land occupied under railway infrastructure. This project can be presented as follows in the points. Thus, the most important objective of the law is to stop the process of winding up railway lines. Secondly, it is a loan of property remaining after the decommissioned railway lines or sections of these lines. Thirdly, this is to enable the implementation of voivodship railway links abroad. Minister Andrzej Bittel has already discussed this in detail, and we accept it as a parliamentary club with great satisfaction. I think that in particular this positive reception will be at the level of voivodship self-governments. Fourthly, the aim of the Act is to improve the implementation of rail investments. The Minister also just referred it to you. Fifthly, it is improving and accelerating the implementation of investments in tram lines outside public road lanes, i.e. including this part of the investment in specific procedures. I think that this will also be noted very positively by local government units carrying out such tasks. Sixthly, it means reducing the burden on voivodships and reducing the unjustified communalisation of the State Treasury's land occupied by rail infrastructure or protecting the secret of a legally protected company in administrative proceedings. To sum up, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is very positive about the government's draft amendment to the Rail Transport Act. This law in its assumption and, I think, as regards the effects it will bring, will facilitate the processes of investment in railway infrastructure, maximise the use of this infrastructure in order to ensure that rail services are properly carried out and prevent unjustified and hasty decommissioning of railway lines. So we are countering these processes, which we have seen in various views in some terms after 1989. The project also contains very specific legal instruments that will contribute to the development and efficient use of railway infrastructure. In view of the above, the proposed changes, of course, deserve our support. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will work actively in the Committee on Infrastructure to ensure that this government submission enters into force as soon as possible within a reasonable period of time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We also warmly express our appreciation to the representatives of the government, the Ministry of Infrastructure, for taking up this very important aspect of investment in infrastructure, which affects in a very concrete way the communication of many hundreds of thousands of people in Poland every day. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the law on rail transport and certain other laws, print No 43. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill, which was presented very extensively by the Minister, is presented as one which brings some new quality into the area related to rail transport. Indeed, there are several elements about which we can say that they are interesting: the possibility for the local government or the railway manager to take the section free of charge into management, the introduction of a change in the definition of inter-voivodeship transport, which can be carried out within an area of up to 30 km in the voivodeship, and not, as it is now, to the nearest station, or the introduction by the Minister, by the Ministry and Government, of procedures in the event of the liquidation of railway lines - which I would like to say. But, of course, the government usually speaks loudly about what is positive in the projects, and it is already quieter about what is controversial, which in these projects requires a very deep debate, or perhaps even changes. And where do I start? Firstly, from the fact that with the liquidation of railway lines, Minister, it is so that after all, your government, the government in which you have been Minister since 2016, has eliminated at least 272 km of railway lines. What's more - because it could be said that it was immediately after the reception, so perhaps the force of some momentum - in January 2017 a tender was announced for the liquidation of the line Brodnica-Kowalewo Pomorskie, cutting off Golub-Dobrzyń, the capital city of the district, from railway links. So this shows that, in fact, the introduction of legislation on these changes is not really about real behaviour and real will. Because if this desire to maintain the railway lines in the current state, the declared desire, were a real desire, then this liquidation would certainly not have happened. Moreover, the liquidation or maintenance of railway lines does not mean that they are not subject to further degradation. We can find examples throughout Poland, such as line 190 on section Bielsko-Biała - Skoczów. Self-governments insist on putting it into use to modernise it, but your government considers it absolutely unjustified. It is therefore worth introducing these provisions into the legal order, also to start real action, because these rules will not save railway lines, they will not make it more efficient and more passenger-friendly. On the contrary, based solely on the rules, the state causes the railway infrastructure to be further degraded. This law also introduces an incentive to introduce increases in ticket prices. We must make it clear to ourselves that the drastic increases in electricity prices that have been ahead of us since the new year will increase the costs of rail transport operators, and so the pressure on the increase in ticket prices will be very strong. In addition, they introduce or expand the catalogue of infrastructure elements for which the fee will be charged. This is, of course, another cost for carriers, which will generate an impulse to increase ticket prices for rail transport. This will also be the result of the adoption of this law and Poles must also prepare for it. The next thing - we mention it very quietly - is that it is another burden for local governments. This obligation - because in principle you introduce an obligation for local governments to take over this infrastructure, these roads or viaducts - does not involve any additional income for local governments, i.e. even though the state has already drastically reduced the revenue of local governments, you are also introducing further elements that make local governments less and less money for new investments that are useful to residents. That's not there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are a great deal of these comments and the project therefore needs to be discussed in depth. I would like to ask you to forward it to the Committee on Infrastructure for a very deep debate and for the best possible shape of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding the draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, print No 43. On 3 December, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the establishment of a "Programme of Supplementation of Local and Regional Railway Infrastructures" (Rail + Railway) to be implemented by 2028. It consists of three components: investment, organisation of passenger transport and protection of infrastructure against decommissioning. The main component is the investment project. The others are complementary. The bill under consideration today is intended to support the implementation of the "Rail+' programme. It's the legal part of this program. The project has already entered Parliament once and, I remind you, it is included in print No 3841. Due to the passage of time, it was not adopted in the previous term of office and after a minor amendment it was returned to the House. This is one of the three draft amendments to the Rail Transport Act and I do not know, Minister, why they are being examined in parallel and not as one project. The first project on the independence of the State Commission for Railway Accidents Research from the infrastructure manager entered into force already in the previous term of office. Work on the other two failed to complete. One is at the stage of work in the law commission, and we are debating the other today. According to this project, railway areas which are currently unused will be restored to re-use for transport purposes. It will be possible to transfer railway lines to free use by local authorities. The decommissioning of railway lines will be possible subject to the approval of the Minister of Infrastructure. These actions, according to the applicant, are intended to restore the operation of railway infrastructure in closed areas or after the decommissioning of railway infrastructure. Regional governments will be able to carry out rail transports further than to the nearest station abroad of their voivodship. According to the applicants, this should contribute to improving communication in areas currently deprived of convenient connections. It will be possible to allocate funds from the railway fund to finance or co-finance tasks by the voivodship concerning the purchase, modernisation and repair of railway vehicles intended for passenger transport carried out under a service contract, but subject to the provision of communication links between neighbouring voivodships. You impose an obligation in your transport plan to allow you to travel to another voivodship, but you do not give the funds. Sure, let's say, a gift is meant to be the possibility of obtaining funds for the modernisation and purchase of rolling stock. Unexploited funds will be used in the following year. A system for granting financial guarantees to open tender procedures will be simplified. New sources of funding for the preparation and implementation of railway investments have been introduced, including funds obtained from the issuance of treasury securities. It's just some changes. The speed of work on this law was express both in May and now, and the project was not submitted to the trade union party for consultation, except for the trade union of railwaymen who did not take advantage of the opportunity to submit their opinion to the State. The question arises as to whether the obligation to obtain a decision by the Minister of Infrastructure to liquidate the railway line will not be part of an increased emphasis on their decommissioning and not on leaving it. How will closed railway sidings be developed today? Because the participation of PKP in your so-called. The government program of the apartment+ is fictitious. It should be noted that the possibility of issuing treasury securities in order to raise the share capital of PKP PLK, which is a novel, has not been properly explained. Moreover, the Government's Legislating Center in a comprehensive analysis did not address this issue in any way. This record raises concern about the union side, because it brings back the worst memories connected with privatisation, you remember, PKP Energetics. No studies are available on the effects of the introduction of the Article. 33w, I'm talking about securities. Moreover, in the printing available to the Council of Ministers, chapter 4d deals with this issue in a completely publicistic manner. I would like to ask how much the issue and handling of 11.3 billion securities will cost. When will they be purchased by the State Treasury? Trade unions are also concerned, not for the first time, about the provisions of the Act on Commercialisation of PKP in the field of transfer to the employee property fund 15% funds from the sale of PKP's assets. While we are talking in the law about the free transfer of assets to local governments, these are financial values. By correcting the Act - print No 3841 - in Article. 33w you forgot to correct your dates. In 2019 we will no longer issue securities. The question therefore arises: in 2020 does the amount of PLN 4.9 billion really need... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. ...and why is it 300 million higher than in the original project the sum for 2019 and 2020? These are just some of our comments. We will make more comments in the course of further work and make appropriate amendments. In view of the need to adopt this law, the Left Club requests that this project be directed to further work in the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u63	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Tomczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the club PSL - Kukiz - Coalition Polska a position in relation to this draft law. The Act amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws includes the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law introducing the Act on Local Government, the Act on Local Employees, the Act on Commercialization and Restructuring of the State Enterprise Polskie Kolej Państwowe and the Act on Rail Transport. This amendment constitutes a legislative change with a significant scope and significant impact. Among the interesting changes worth paying attention to are certainly changes in the implementation of the TSUE judgment on passenger platforms as part of the railway infrastructure and changes enabling the application of the provisions of Chapter 2b of the Act on collective transport to carry out investments in tram lines outside public lanes. We also have a change in the definition of the transhipment terminal in this law, which should facilitate the construction of transhipment terminals, which are far too few in Poland. Amendment of the provisions of the Article. Article 9q (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. 1 point 7 of the Rail Transport Act allows for the reconstruction of rail-road hubs and provides access to real estate entrances. Adding an article. 9ag improves the maintenance of rail infrastructure. It also imposes an obligation to agree on this issue between PLK and local government units. We also have an extension of the compensation deadline. According to the project designers, the aim of the project is to stop the degradation of railway infrastructure, including transport corridors, also in the areas of railway lines for which decisions have been made to eliminate them, and to regulate rail connections within voivodships, as well as to introduce changes that were requested by railway market participants, which aim to remove barriers and problems concerning the effective implementation of railway investments in practice, among others. concerning the provision of financing for projects implemented by PKP PLK in the form of, for example, facilitation of the granting of guarantees. Within the framework of the national railway programme, with the participation of the measures referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Public Finance Act, the Act introduces the possibility of organising road infrastructure within the framework of ongoing investments concerning the modernisation of railway infrastructure and subsequent management, maintenance and construction of this road infrastructure. The Act also introduces the possibility to use the funds from the Railway Fund for investments in rolling stock for local governments. However, the criteria under which these measures can be granted are missing in this respect. A rather debatable provision is a provision which, according to the designers, includes the possibility of so-called. unauthorized communalisation. This is in fact affecting the municipalities and will lead to the settlement of all disputes concerning communalisation in favour of the railways. Initiators of the bill... The process of winding up railway lines, which has been under way since 1990 - some of them have already disappeared, 7 000. km of railway lines - this is a process worth stopping. The question is whether the Minister's agreement will be the solution. She's not shutting this process down, she's moving it to a different level. With the Minister's consent, the railway lines can continue to be closed. This project also includes a revision of the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of PKP. It introduces the possibility of giving free-of-charge to local government units of railway lines which do not have State significance. The intention is correct, and we also have a provision that indicates that PLK can disclose its claims and mortgages, which will largely block the process of free transfer to local governments. The issue of bonds is an important element of this change. It is about the transfer of about PLN 11 billion to increase the capital of PLK SA. It is important to remember that Poles will pay for these bonds. It is therefore important how this money will be used. Whether they will actually be used to invest in the construction of railway lines, or e.g. for contributions to EU projects. We don't really know that. We believe that this requires clarification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is worth noting that it is not only the legal environment itself, but also how PLK carries out its investments. It hasn't been good so far. It was clear that EU projects are only implemented to a small extent. It appears that the level of use of Union funds in some years was even below 50%. Thus, increasing the burden by issuing bonds without improving the operation of PKP PLK, it is not really possible to improve the quality of investment in railway infrastructure. It is also worth noting that the company often carries out these investments, which are not profitable. Is the company formula appropriate in this situation? It's worth thinking about. Wouldn't it be worth turning PKP PLK into an office... Finish your work, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal. In general, we find this project very interesting. On behalf of the coalition club Poland - PSL - Kukiz15, I request that it be transferred to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Urbaniak, Circle of the Polish Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u66	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are now talking about print 43 on the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and other laws. A close look at this project was given to the Confederation. In fact, the aim of this project is to simplify, improve collective transport, reduce the scope of inefficient regulation in general for railway lines and roads, and in this area, however you look, is second, in terms of quantity... I mean, there are almost most accidents. This is the right line, however, to simplify and regulate it. On the other hand, the practice of local government activities deserves strong criticism, according to which, as part of the previous activities of PKP PLK, it is about railway investments, e.g. built two-level intersections - in 84 cases there were problems with passing built intersections. We're talking about the boards of local government units. These problems also need an urgent solution, and in this respect they deserve to be taken into account. This bill, however it may be seen, has been prepared insufficiently solidly. Here a lot has been said about bonds, I would like to draw attention to one more thing. Well, we see the natural advantages of this project, among others. Yeah, like I said before, deregulation. We also see the need to simplify procedures for creating lines between voivodships, but the record that says that the voivodship connections will only be possible 30 km from the border of a given voivodship is not sufficient. Here, as part of the public consultation, transport companies proposed a record of 50 km. We agree on this record. An example is the lines concerning Kutn and Torun or, for example, the lines concerning Kutn and Torun. Hunger and Leszna. Therefore, we ask you to refer this proposal to the committee's work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If so, you're welcome. Yeah, me. If not, I'm closing the list. I volunteered. The first question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, As part of the renovation of the Poznań - Warsaw railway line, new platforms were put into use, and the reconstruction of underground crossings in Konin is underway. The inhabitants of Konina and the local authorities have been waiting for nearly 2 years for the start of construction of the railway station as part of the integrated communication and trade centre. Everything that was on the government's side has already been completed. Therefore, the question is: Why is it taking so long to start the construction of Konin's PKP station? When is this investment expected to start? The second question is whether the rail + by 2028 the Śrem - Czempin railway line is to be launched. This is line 369, which was opened by way of 1885. You spoke to the Minister about the fact that we will also restore railway lines (the bell) in these towns more than 10,000. residents. Finish your work, sir. Weird is a place that doesn't have that line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u69	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The modernisation of rail line 271, which was to be completed at Euro 2012, is now delayed. This is a 12-month delay. I have a question: When will the section from Czempinia actually be completed to the border of Wielkopolska voivodship? Do you intend to restart the direct train via Leszno to Warsaw after completing this line? This would facilitate communication links for residents of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, for example. about Głogów or Lubuskie voivodship. Is it envisaged in the light of the law to restore the Leszno-Gostyn railway line and electrify the railway line from Krotoszyn to Głogów? How many land of unnecessary PKP, I think of sidings, railway lines, transferred to the National Property Resources or too much for PFR? I am talking about the official disposal, not the ongoing negotiations, because to my knowledge today, the participation of the PKP in the program of the Living+ programme is a fiction, and this law, Minister, will simply limit this company's transfer of land to the KZN even more.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u71	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Romuald Ajchler, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u72	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the seventh term, I sought to reactivate rail line 368 from Międzychod to Szamotuł. She continues to go, Lubuskie voivodeship, to Skwierzyna, which is the statutory condition which you have established. If you implement this bill, as you intend, I am convinced that the Interwest will cease to be one of the cities covered by the communication exclusion today. I would ask the Minister very much. The cost of this line is considerable, it is about PLN 300 million to restore it. I'm not talking to you in the form of an outrage, because a dozen years ago this line was closed. I'm only saying this because you can, you have a chance to sign up as the one who doesn't throw words at the wind. I'll keep an eye on it. I'll ask you every once in a while what progress is made. But there's one thing I wanted to ask you. 67 billion (Bingle) - I'm almost done, Marshal - we have until 2023. How much money do we have today? Will it not happen again that we will lose billions more in this financial agenda? We could use these resources for this very purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u73	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As part of the discussion on the draft law on amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, I would like to ask for information on planned investments in the years 2020 to 2023 in the Silesian Voivodeship in the field of railway infrastructure, passenger and freight transport. At the same time, I would like to ask you to clarify in this information cases concerning investments and planned investments in Będzin, Sosnowiec, Zawiercie, Jaworzno and Dąbrowa Górnicza. I would also like to ask you to respond in writing to my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u75	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Is the government planning to support inter-regional investment initiatives such as the regional and Wielkopolska rail link? She reaches the village of Gołańcz, while 6 km are missing on the side of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. This causes frustration of the inhabitants of Kcynia and the whole county, who are unable to understand that they have to drive to Gołańcza by car to reach Poznań by train, where they study very many young people. Will there be communication between Kcynia and Nakło, which would give us a chance to develop this part of the voivodship? What are the prospects for railway line 241 connecting Koronowo to Tuchola? Is the construction of the Maximilian - Koronowo connection envisaged? In the first, original version of the program, the rail+.The announcement of the restoration of the Znin-Shubin connection appeared. When will this task begin? Minister! One last question. Will there be (the bell) revitalized line 356 from Bydgoszcz to Shubin? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u77	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u78	Once a very important line was the Warsaw-Vienna line. The important station was Częstochowa. The rest of the train station is still there. They must be protected. In 1990 and 1991, with the megalomaniac approach, a great railway station was built in Częstochowa - because Jasna Góra etc. Unfortunately, for many years it has been deficit, too big, after Central Warsaw the most expensive in Poland: less than 25 PLN for a normal train, almost 50 PLN for a long-distance train. We haven't heard from this station in years. Will it be demolished? Isn't it? The SARP's architectural concept is underway. I have a question for the Minister. When's the new station? These are beautiful areas, in the centre of the city, next to the PKS - with great emphasis. Everything points out that it would be worth including the PKS (the bell), also the state, something very cool to come up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The left bet's on the line. Not for megalomaniac projects such as the Central Communication Port, but for a railroad that brings citizens to work, to a doctor, to a school every day. Chop-chop. Chop-chop. The situation in which the government has money for an express connection from Baranów to Ostrava, and such cities as the Hawks-Zdrój do not have railroads today, is absurd. Scandal! Hence my question: Does the government foresee, and to what extent, funding from the central budget of the metropolitan railway development project within the Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis? I would remind you that the Warsaw Metro could count on such central financing. I assume the largest agglomeration in this country can count on at least as good treatment. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left. There is no Member. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the light of this law, when local authorities invest in railway infrastructure, will the Self-Government Road Fund be able to be the instrument that will help to implement very large investments? Imagine that in Konin there is a viaduct, which is part of the modernized Berlin - Moscow route. The viaduct costs 85 million and the railroad invests only 7 million PLN. The other costs fall to the city. The city needs to indebt itself, take appropriate bonds to implement a project that is really an infrastructure project on a very important international route. At the moment we expect the Prime Minister to decide whether PLN 30 million will be transferred to Konin in connection with this investment under the Local Roads Fund. I count very much (the bell) that this 30 million will become a reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u83	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u84	Dear Marshal! Minister! I come from the Hawk-Zdrój, a town of almost 100 thousand... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...which still doesn't have passenger transport. Of course, trains with coal are leaving. There's no problem with that. These tracks are maintained by a coal company. On the other hand, passenger transport has been missing for several years. Many times here, from this stand, I asked the Minister, at what stage are the preparations and whether they are at all. We have a new president who has already prepared an initial technical and economic study. These papers were filed at the Ministry of Infrastructure at the PKP. Minister! I would like to know today whether you will be carrying out this passenger railroad to Jastrzębie, since Mr Morawiecki, recently from this stand, made it clear that these cities, which today have no railroad, will have it. Will you return to the Hawk with passenger transport when this happens and what measures will you commit to this case? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u85	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the two issues that appear in this project. Let us remember that the law, which is presented as one which facilitates the renewal of suspended or liquidated railway lines, at the same time facilitates the decommissioning of railway lines - here we have a new sound of the article. 38ba - including railway lines of state importance. And the second thing is actually a miserable record about the limit of 30 km from the border of the voivodship. While the intention is right to facilitate the operation of connections at the intersection of voivodships, the arbitrary determination of this distance of 30 km raises doubts. Please bear in mind that this possibility will not be available to organizers of passenger transport on such lines as, here two examples: Radom - Tomaszów Mazowiecki, where from the border of the voivodeship to the junction station is more than 30 km, or Brodnica - Działdowo, where trains go from Grudziądz to Brodnica (Dzwonek), there is still a border of voivodships of Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Warmińsko-Mazurskie, and there is no movement to Działdow. Thank you. [[Applause]] It's where the Platform with the Left, including the voivodship, runs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u87	Thank you, Member. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u88	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! Railways and trams are the greenest, most ecological form of transport, so the development of public transport, especially rail, is also an investment in clean air and in our health. We can't afford to put this off for later. However, in order for people to really move from cars to railways, it also has to reach smaller towns, and it often arrives. This is particularly important in the Gliwice district due to the high concentration of smog. Therefore, I ask: When will the plans for the extension of the S1 line to Pyskowice and the city railway in Knurow and Gieraltowice be implemented? Thanks to this, the inhabitants of these towns will be able to get to work quickly and conveniently without having to get in the car, and we will all benefit from clean air and smaller traffic jams. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the Minister had not answered this question during the debate, I would ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u89	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u90	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, of course, the paper, as I said, is patient and will accept everything, but these noble assumptions that probably led you when the ministry prepared the bill, nothing to do with reality. For example, let's take line 190 on Bielsko-Biała - Jumps. This line has been closed for many years, there are no trains, and now you decide to revitalize the second part of this line, which is somewhere there Jumps - Cieszyn, Bronowice - Vistula, and you leave without revitalization a key section just for this connection Bielsko-Biała - Jumps. How are these connections to return - they are to be rational - when on the one hand really very high amounts are spent on revitalization of parts of this line, and the key section of Bielsko-Biała - Jumpers is left without revitalization? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This money is simply thrown into the mud and these actions will not have a positive effect on all inhabitants of the entire region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u91	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I request information about the situation of the railway station in Grudziądz. Six months ago, it was announced that this station would be put into service. The head of the PKP even called a press conference on the subject. As I know, these implementation plans are still in its infancy, and the station is an important connecting point. Besides, I don't want to talk about how important the stations in our society are anymore. The list of questions that the Left Club presents is sufficient evidence of this. So that I would ask for information about when the station in Grudziądz will be handed over. The second question concerns the future or electrification of line 207 between Grudziądz and Toruń. The third question that has already appeared here (The Bell) concerns the section Kowalewo Pomorskie - Brodnica. Isn't the government planning to change the decision to put out this rail link that shuts Golub Dobrzyń off from the rail network? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u93	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 1 minute, I can't tell you how our western neighbours in the West Pomerania by 1939 developed railway infrastructure well and, as later, in 1945, our eastern neighbours stole it. [[Applause]] I can't tell you that pendolino has to get to Szczecin, not commute, and it has to get to Świnoujście, and it doesn't get to Szczecin. I cannot tell you that the Goleniów-Kolobrzeg line must be electrified, and it is not. Nor can I tell you that the railway viaduct in Szczecin between the largest districts between Dąbie and Sunny must be done because its absence leads to paralysis of the city. I have one question, then, Minister, one question from the opposition Member: Would you be so kind as to invite the opposition Member to you for half an hour? I'll explain it all to you and ask you questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo. Lobbing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u95	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! An important point of this novel is the issue of lending land and rail roads to local authorities as well. I have my personal experience, as a former governor, as well as what a difficult process it has been to somehow control the extinguished railway line, which is also a certain cultural heritage, is more than 100 years of its operation. And now the question is, which local authorities will be able to apply for it? The second issue, which is related to this, is the issue of taxation as regards these inactive railway lines, and in particular the associated facilities, as well as the issue of renovations, e.g. engineering facilities, e.g. viaducts. This is a very difficult problem for those self-governments who would like this material heritage to remain in this area and be somehow exploited. The second point is the issue of renovation, modernisation of the Leszno station on the modernized route Wrocław - Poznan. In this case, I receive a lot of questions from the residents of Leszna (Dzwonek) and Wielkopolski. I think it's good to have an answer here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first question that comes up: Why are we leaving so late with this bill? After all, the truth is that, as regards PLK's expenditure, in 2018 the amount of 11 billion was spent, only 10 were spent, so it is clear that this law is absolutely necessary. Second thing. What is the issue of infrastructure, i.e. PKP Energy, powering new or reconstructed railway lines? Is this bill going to solve this problem? Because we can build a railway line, but it needs energy infrastructure. The third point is that I would ask for a written answer. This is a matter of the Oder line, line 273, which I am talking about as a Member and a West Pomeranian self-governmentman, we have been working for many, many years. Question: "Which stage is the implementation of this investment and will this law affect that investment (the Bell) will be implemented faster?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u99	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I represent Małopolska, a beautiful area, although difficult to access. There are many white spots that are so-called. communication difficulties in our region. And I wanted to ask. The instinct itself is very right, but the question arises. It is about handing over, voluntary lending to local governments of those areas that are severely degraded and destroyed. This involves very serious financial expenditure, although local governments are used to it and have the skills to spend this money. My question is: Will the transfer be followed by funding and will the moment when this funding comes or doesn't come and when local governments modernise these railway areas, really then these areas will not return to the owners they originally came from? This would make action much more difficult and, I think, would significantly reduce all these investments which local governments, including the voivodships, implement from their budgets and at this point would be very limited. Please answer me. And then there's the second question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How these investments could fit into development plans e.g. created a design line Piekello - Podłęże in the area of Małopolska voivodship? Wouldn't that coincide with investment, action, area and impact? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u102	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question because we're talking so much about land transfer here. One big problem for the city of Inowroclaw, which lies in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, from which I come, is the area under the street. Warehouse. This area was to be modernised, also rebuilt from the funds of the Marshal's office, in which until recently I also worked. Unfortunately, for 4 years there has been resistance from the PKP to transfer this land. There is a big problem for the city of Inowroclaw to gain this land. The funds provided, which were transferred by the Marshal's office, will probably not be enough for this investment at the moment, because its cost increased from 8 million by increasing prices on the market to 28 million. I look forward to a written reply as to how it looks to transfer this land and speed up the transfer of the land to the street. A warehouse in the city of Inowroclaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u103	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u104	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is simple: Do you happen to travel by rail? If so, do you drive at night? 'Cause I do, sometimes a lot of hours. Ladies and gentlemen, we have such a situation that the Polish state resigns from wagons that have crossbows and sleeping cars. I'm really sorry about this. [[Applause]] I have witnessed this, and I often have to take such a train, e.g. by train from Białystok to Jelenia Góra very many hours at night. I'll get in the car at about an hour. 23, seven with minutes is in Jelenia. And you know what's going on? People - vans are out of range only, the light is shining - they just lie on the floor and lie down all night (the bell) because there are no normal conditions, because we as a country are giving up cars where you can sleep. [[Applause]] Thank you for the applause, sir. That's maybe by the way, [[Applause]] Which is crazy important today, but I'm asking you to take care of it. And I'm asking you in writing to tell me what's going on with the couch cars and the sleeping cars. We're spending it in Nigeria. This is insanely important to all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for this bill, because it is a very good move when it comes to amending the Rail Transport Act. We will certainly reduce the exclusion of communication by doing so. I am particularly interested in the possibility of supporting passenger transport at the borders of voivodships. It's a pretty important thing. There are, for example. towns in different voivodships and indeed there is a problem to communicate these towns. Such an example is line 61, where for several years the station in Lisów has been renovated, in Pavonkov, in Pludry, and trains do not stop there. So, Minister, please clarify this and tell us exactly what support will be provided here in the amendment of the Act, what forms of this support will be in terms of transport between voivodships. I would also ask you to refer to the fact that, for example. Sometimes local authorities ask to start traffic at stations, which so far had passenger traffic, but do not have it, and the PKP as if it claims that there is no potential for transport. However, I think that when these stations are started, the lines are started, the potential increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u107	Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Will the amendment of the Rail Transport Act finally allow for an effective revitalization of the 190 Bielsko-Biała - Skoczów - Cieszyn railway line? For several years, residents supported by many local governments have been waiting for this rail link to be restored, enabling tens of thousands of people to reach school or work. For today we have seen - I live near this railway line - only destroyed stops, destroyed road crossings, such beer oasis, wild garbage dumps or crossing for pedestrians on this line - unpassable. I would like to stress that the railway was opened in 1888 and was a cause for pride for more than 100 years. Today, it is a cause for shame for subsequent governments. Minister, will this amendment of the bill allow the Sejm to finally revitalize effectively the 190 Bielsko-Biała - Jumps - Cieszyn railway line? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Buried is the winter capital of the Tatras. The figures show this: 4 million visitors per year or more, during the weekend 250,000. The fact that you need a lot of fortitude and good health to get to Zakopane proves the numbers again. From 5.5 to 13 hours - depending on the wealth of pockets. The fact that Zakopane is standing - sometimes from Zakopane to Krakow there are 6 hours - you probably heard from the media too. Why don't people take trains? This is because since 2016 the route has been modernised, as the PKP parties say. But people want to ride, people want to play sports, people want to be in Zakopane. So why do they have to drive buses that aren't the worst, but imagine how horrible these thousands of buses are poisoning the environment? Destroy the railway lines and build a highway. I would therefore appeal to you with a huge appeal and ask you: How will this problem be resolved and when? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's been three years, and the upgrade is still going on. I assure you, there are still no trains from Krakow. This is one train. They only drive buses, but when we're supposed to take care of the environment, it should be changed urgently, because train transport ensures clean air, which doesn't provide transportation by car. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u111	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask about the railway line Jelenia Góra - Lwówek Śląski. The railway line was liquidated, the traffic on this line was liquidated in 2017, i.e. for this government. This is not a case, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, from 2002 to 2015. This line runs through an area that's out of communication. Schoolchildren have very big problems with accessing schools in Jelenia Góra. Towns like Lwówek Śląski, Vulen are simply cut off from Jelenia Góra. In addition, this line runs through the most beautiful landscape parks of the valley of Bobru. I've referred to the government many times. The locals have asked that question many times. Then I'll take it out. What's next with the line? When you decide whether the Marshal will receive it, will the government renovate it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u113	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister presented us with a whole package of proposals for amendments to the laws on rail traffic. We are aware that investments on tracks are very expensive and without the support of the European Union simply impossible to implement. But observing the behaviour of Donald Tusk's government, everyone agrees that these investments were constantly delayed and Poland had to face the return of unused EU funds. Therefore, my question is: Will the proposed amendment have a positive impact on the spending of EU funds closely related to investments carried out on railway and tram tracks and will these new rules not delay the investment process related to rail traffic? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u116	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for creating such a bill. For the fact that the decommissioning of railway links has finally been stopped, as has been the case throughout the 1990s and under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL. I would also like to thank you for the fact that thanks to this project, a town such as Turk in Wielkopolska, the region I represent, will have a chance to connect with Konin, and for the fact that in the project I would also like to ask whether local authorities will be able to submit a joint project on the basis of this law and whether they will be able to share their spending on some parts or instalments, because (The bell) these investments will be multi-million-dollar. This will be a heavy load, even though it is 15% for local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u117	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the project Mon.: High-speed railways. So important, important and planned for years. I'll remind you of a short story. In 1993 the first studio appointments of the PKP Directorate-General. In 2005, the Democratic Left Alliance had its first preparations for a preliminary study at the Railway Institute and a public consultation was held in 2011. I ask, Minister, what the high-speed railway program looks like today, whether it has been abandoned and what the matter of connecting stations in the former Kalisz voivodeship looks like. Please inform me in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u119	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have four questions. One: Since the only sensible railroads are those that drive 300 km/h, I ask when we're going to build a line like this. 35 years ago we were 30 years before China, thanks to Germany of course, and right now we are 10 years behind China. China is already building because they have not joined the European Union and therefore have fast railways. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have further questions: How many kilometers per month he built in the 19th century. Jake Gold in America? How many kilometers per hour were built during the construction of the Trans-Siberian railway in Russia, and how many Chinese are building today? Don't tell me it was easier for them, because they were measured in versts, miles and months. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u121	Please, Mr Jacek Tomczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you three questions. The first will concern the implementation of the investment by PKP PLK. Well, we know that there are big problems with them, there are big delays, there is poor decision-making in the company in terms of carrying out this investment. I wanted to ask the question: What is the current level of investment implementation using European Union funds? What are the risks to the use of these European Union funds because we have worrying information that more than half of these investments are delayed or not implemented? The second question concerns a certain idea in the law regarding the money from the Railway Fund. The idea is right to allocate them to local government rolling stock, but will these decisions not be arbitrary, and will there be any criteria that will objective it, will there be better or worse local governments that have a chance of receiving these funds? The third question concerns the station in Konin (The Bell). This investment has been going on for a long time, because of the PKP. I would like to ask: When will the construction of the new station in Konin begin? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u123	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is always with great pleasure that I accept such news that the government wants to finally take care of the railroad, for public transport. But I have a question for the government: when is he going to switch from his expensive, black, dark, tinted limousine windows to public transport, just to the railroad? From those limos that are paid out of taxpayers' money, from those limos you've already broken many times. Also yesterday there was a collision in which a witness seeing this collision with a member of the government said it was a death race. [[Applause]] Maybe when you switch from these limos to the railroad, to public transport, you'll understand that it's not ideal that there's a lot to fix. Recently, my colleague on the tour from Hajnówka to Białowieża had to pay 80 PLN because there was nothing to get there. You can just stand there and wait for your foot to catch. I strongly encourage and ask: When does the government intend to start driving by rail (the bell) and by public transport? I encourage you. I recommend it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u125	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! All actions taken to improve rail transport are extremely important. Surely, all that is being done in this area is good information for our residents. On the other hand, in the modernisation of railway lines, whether two issues have been properly noticed so far and, I think, we will have to do more and more to try. Namely the construction of collisionless crossings through railway tracks and railway stations. As far as the first case is concerned, it is the town of Mrozy that is such a symbol of the inability to cross the railway tracks. There are so many more places like this. The city where the construction permit for the reconstruction of the Moscow - Berlin railway line included the construction of the railway station without collision crossing the railway tracks (the bell) and to this day it has not been completed. That's the scale. the failure of the state that the lines have been modernised, the railway inspector has entered the need to build a collision-free viaduct, and it has not yet been built. In this respect, the government should establish a special programme. Just like the Orlik program, there must be a program connected with the construction of the collisionless... Go ahead and finish. ...cross the railroad tracks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u127	Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is still a debate between the inhabitants of Bialystok and the surrounding areas on the exit from the city centre of rail transit. We had an incident a few years ago that one of the chlorine tanks just exploded in the centre of Bialystok. It was a very, very, very dangerous event. It's about modernising the E75 Rail Baltica route. Please provide PKP PLK as soon as possible with variants of this investment in consultation with inhabitants of Białystok and surrounding areas. This is a very important issue for the inhabitants of the Podlaskie voivodship. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u129	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Two things. If the proposed law aims to stop the liquidation of railway lines, then why does it allow the complete liquidation of the railway lines in one of the articles? I quote: The land remaining after the decommissioned railway lines or railway sidings along with the built-in infrastructure can be transferred to local government units for transport purposes. What does that mean? This means that these closed railway lines will not be able to be put back into service. Why? Because in their place you will be able to build bypasses, roads and bike paths. And these are not examples out of mind, because we have in Poland several cities in which existing tracks, railway lines have been converted into bypasses, e.g. Barlinek or Frost. This is the wrong direction. I ask that you simply change this and add one word: for rail or rail transport purposes. One word, and it will actually prevent the destruction of the line. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And second, I would like to appeal for a quicker solution to the issue of rail transport between Krakow and Olsztyn... excuse me, Olkus. We really need this connection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u131	Thank you very much, Member. That was the last question. I ask the Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am extremely glad that this bill met with such a lively response, although I also have the impression that many questions are more suitable for interpellation than for this submission. You'll answer in writing, Minister. Yes, and that is certainly what I intend to do, especially with regard to Mr Szczepański's questions, but also to many others who have asked questions. We're counting on good news. I welcome the extreme interest or extremely large participation in this debate by the representatives of the club Lewis. I am extremely pleased with this and particularly welcome the participation of Mr Szczepański in the debate, who was the Minister, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure in the two governments during which he was... One. Two, I think. We only have 15 minutes. I'll make it. I'll make it. ...the decisions taken to liquidate 2.5,000. km of railway lines. [[Applause]] Ooh... That's what I'm more excited about, because that means we have a common goal. This joint objective is to rebuild the Polish railway, it is to finance it, it is to implement investment programmes such as the National Railway Programme, which is an extremely important instrument for intervention in the main transport corridors, which is financed by the Operational Programme of the infrastructure and environment, which is financed by the Connecting Europe Programme. We are the leader in gaining European funds on railway lines, in modernising railway lines, we are the leader in using these resources. I think that this country should see with certainty, because the levels of use of rail-related resources, the modernisation of railways, if you compare the year of the current perspective to the year of the previous perspective, are quite two worlds at all. 10 billion already completed investments, 40 billion in construction sites, this year we will contract more than 10 billion for further investments. We are extremely advanced in these activities. This should be borne in mind and the maintenance programme that has been adopted should also be taken into account. For the first time, the government has adopted a multi-annual maintenance programme that allows us to think about maintenance in the long term. It is expected by all, including the European Commission. It should also be said that there are obligations at every level of public administration, just as it is the responsibility of the government to organise inter-voivodship and cross-border connections, so it is the responsibility of the regional government to organise regional connections. In many cases, you ask for regional connections, for which the modernisation of railway lines is carried out under the national railway programme, but from the regional operational programme, where the spending of funds is decided by the local government. The local government indicates its priorities, of course in agreement with the beneficiary, which is PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe. I strongly protest against saying that PKP PLK does not carry out the investment well, because it does it very well and this is borne out by concrete facts. Why are we introducing a loan element into the legal order for local government? We are introducing this not to shift some responsibilities, but to give the local government the opportunity to temporarily, in the shorter term, in the longer term, because the process of restoring rail connections is not a process of, so... It eliminates easily: it seems a decision, first the demand is extinguished, then the railway line is extinguished from the carrier's side, and then it seems to be the decision to liquidate, because if nothing drives, there is no economic interest in maintaining such a line. And it goes away easily: here's the decision, there's the decision. No such decision was made in the previous term. If the Member is talking about the liquidation of the railway line, he is talking about the demolition of a long-lost railway line. She could've been stopped. The question is - and here we are probably different - whether it is worth to leave on the ground unexploited railway tracks, which slowly, slowly local business, of course speaking in quotes, will strip and take to the purchase of scrap metal, whether it should be collected from it itself, get some revenue, small, because, nevertheless, it is our common property, and keep the corridor from the point of view of the real estate, because this is the basic barrier when it comes to the playback of the railway line, it is the most important issue for it to be a corridor. If someone made a decision to cut the rail corridor down the highway, how do we keep it? Then there are decisions about some other way of developing this corridor. We need to think about it - we will, of course, also think about it - how to bring about a situation in which we will also describe this secondary third-rate communication network, transport-rail network, because we certainly need such tools. This law is also intended to organise relations with local authorities in the contexts of viaducts or railroad crossings which were implemented within the framework of the investment, in order to be clear about who is responsible for what. This element has not been ensured in due time and is therefore necessary. Do you need to invest in collision-free travel? Yes, of course. Such a viaduct programme was announced, recruitments were carried out and investments are carried out under this programme. So that in the national railway programme there is a corresponding line. Do we work together as a part of the living+? I was very interested in that question. Yeah, we're working together as a part of the apartment +... Program. ...and we will consistently cooperate, although this problem is not described in this law, is in another law already adopted. Appropriate facilitations are generated, realized, for sure. This law, of course, must be read together with the recently adopted government resolution, because the money under the recapitalisation of PKP PLK will also be used to conduct competitions and together with local government e.g. The railroad to Hawk-Zdrój, which was liquidated for the first time in 2005, for the second time in 2008, try to rebuild together. And so in the case of any investment, whether indicated on the list of investments recommended by the government, or any other investment presented by the local government, because the competition is open, it will be open, we will together after the conclusions are reached, we can evaluate and we will try to take them all into account. Of course, the budget of this programme is estimated at about PLN 6 billion, including the participation of local government funds. So this is the scale of this project that we're going to be doing. Part of this money, this 11 billion, about half of it, is already included in the National Railway Programme, which we are implementing, which also contributes to eliminating the exclusion of communication, which contributes to ensuring that the TEN-T rail routes are as expected of us by the European Commission, at a certain time, and this time is 2030, with appropriate parameters. It is also served by this undertaking, or act, to stabilise the financing of this programme. Is this bill too late? Well, it is now, isn't it? In my view, of course, there were many things that could have been done earlier. The railway line could not have been closed before. Then there would be no need to create this law, then this intervention in the current reality would not be so deeply needed. It must be said that today, too, I think, we share the view that investing in the Polish railroad, in railway infrastructure, because in the case of this law we are talking about railway infrastructure, is a common goal for us. I'm very, very happy for you. The question of the Railway Fund and the contacts, 30 km. The law was in consultation, the law was assessed by KWRIST. I'm also saying that so we're aware of that. Of course, someone at some point has to decide whether 30 km or 50 km or 70 km. We've decided 30 kilometers. If we need to change this parameter, we are open to discussion whether now or later, as these regulations will function and we will see how they work, because it is the carriers who should present their offer at a certain time that they would like to make their offer in a different shape, and then we will certainly lean on it. Whether we go 300 km/h, that's the question. I can say that the laws that are currently in force and have been amended in the last 2 years allow the construction of railway lines up to 250 km/h. Are we gonna need 300 kilometers? Geometrics will probably allow this to happen on new railway lines and railway lines, but by looking at needs, it is necessary to consider whether, for our country, 300 km is enough or too much. Personally, I believe that the railway up to 250 km/h is also a high-speed railway, not high-speed, but high-speed, for efficient operation, assuming that large centres, agglomerations, railway nodes are therefore operated by railway lines with parameters: two agglomeration tracks, two long-distance tracks, which would allow for smooth movement in Poland, but also in international connections. Such connections would certainly be competitive in some cases or in most cases for air services. This is the goal that is described today. The pace of construction depends, of course, on what laws we have, whether we improve the mechanisation on the construction sites. That's right, the European Union. Will we be able to persuade our contractors to do this by showing them the long perspective of investing in the Polish railroad, to convince them that it is worth modernising when it comes to equipment, when it comes to all these technical measures that allow construction processes to automate and thus accelerate them and at the same time give them an even higher level of quality. If I have not answered a specific question, then of course we will prepare a written reply. I would like to avoid a discussion in which, on the basis of these provisions, we will discuss what year the station will be built. We have this plan. Each investment is described. This is the first big station program we're doing. I'd love to share that knowledge with you. Thank you very much and I will see you at the committee meeting. What about the invitation? As far as the invitation is concerned, of course I am ready to meet with every Member, and I will even say that I have a duty which follows from the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, as corrected. You're welcome. Not 2,5 Just three minutes? One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If you've studied my résumé, you forgot to say that I was the vice minister of infrastructure, but from construction, not railroad. However, when we are talking about accuracy, indeed from 1991 until today we have eliminated approx. 7,000. railway lines. We're down from 27 to less, say, 20. Please also say that the biggest decrease was between 1991 and 1993 and 1997 and when the government of AWS and the Freedom Union passed the Commercialisation Act of the PKP, creating almost 140 companies. Another drop, let's say, under the rule of the Civic Platform. Today you are rebuilding, but you do not indicate that under the SLD government, when the bill was budged by the formation of companies from companies, the left has eliminated the most railway lines.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u135	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, contained in print 43, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law (Print No 51). I ask Mr Mark Suski to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill amending the Act amending the Act on excise duty and the Customs Law, print No 51. Ladies and gentlemen. This law is, you can say, very short, albeit important, because it amends the Customs Law and the Excise Tax Act on products which are exempt from this tax. The main issue here is fuel, fuel or marine fuels or the chemical industry for solvents, thinners, paint removers. This law extends the period during which traders will have to adapt their demonstration of the movement of these products, in terms of resignation, the transition from paper documentation to electronic documentation. What does that mean? This means that operators will have additional time to implement a system allowing the transition from a paper delivery document to an electronic system. This is a proposal to extend this period until 31 January 2021, an additional 13 months of vacathio legis for this solution. This will allow you to install new software, i.e. it makes it easier for entrepreneurs. It's about such a smooth transition from paper to electronics, which also fits liquid fuels. Ladies and gentlemen! These provisions refer to the entry into force of the Act on 1 January, but for formal reasons we will submit an amendment, a colleague will propose an amendment to this effect from 31 December 2019. I'm telling you right away, there's gonna be an amendment like that. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law. Moreover, the European Union does not regulate this issue. The project also has no impact on the public finance sector, so there is no need to indicate how this law affects the public finance sector. It's not here. also technical standards which would make the law necessary to be notified and therefore the law is not subject to notification. On behalf of the applicants, I ask the High House to accept this good solution for the Polish economy and Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u137	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Materna, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law, print No 51. The purpose of amending the Act of 20 July 2018 amending the Excise Tax Act and the Customs Law is to introduce an additional 13-month vacathio legis allowing the use of a paper delivery document in the EMCS PL 2 system and an electronic delivery document. The proposed amendments will allow for an extension by 31 January 2021 of the period during which excise duty exemptions can be used as existing rules by operators moving in the territory of the country outside the excise duty suspension procedure for excise goods covered by the excise duty authorisation due to their use. This means that WW. operators will have additional time to implement a system allowing the transition from a paper delivery document guaranteeing the use of this authorisation to an electronic system for monitoring the supply of these goods. The extension of the use of the paper delivery document shall not affect the increase of expenditure on the part of traders. The bill has no impact on the public finance sector. The bill will not increase expenditure and reduce the revenues of public finance units, including the state budget and budgets of local government units. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to make an amendment to the bill. It's about getting Art. The Act shall enter into force on 31 December 2019. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u139	Mr President, there is only one problem. You can't file an amendment right now. The amendment can be tabled at second reading, so you have to take this amendment and when it comes to second reading, report it. You can't fold it because we're in the first. This is not a second reading. This is not a second reading. You can make an amendment at second reading. I'm very sorry, sir. You'll have to wait and submit it only at second reading. You said there would be an amendment. Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law. First of all, I would like to refer to the words of Marek Suski, who said at the end of his speech that this law is good for the Polish economy. I want to make you aware that this law with the good of the Polish economy has absolutely nothing to do with it. This law, however, has much to do with the sloppy legislation that is in force in this parliament during the rule of law and justice. The state, having a year to prepare all the issues, just didn't do it. Two weeks before the end of the year, you introduce a law that extends the provisions by one year. Not much, probably on November 21, the Sejm adopted an amendment to the excise tax Act. Wasn't it a good time to extend the duration of these provisions already in that law? No, you didn't remember that at the time. In fact, it may not be PiS Members, but it was not remembered at all by the Ministry of Finance, which in fact focused solely on raising excise duty by 10% on alcohol, on tobacco products to secure the budgetary impact, the potential impact on the state budget of PLN 1700 million. Other provisions, regulations were not issued, but no one was in control at all. That's not enough, this bill was sent to the Sejm after the Senate discussion on the Senate committee. The senators picked up this problem and even took a legislative initiative at the Senate level, almost identical to the presentation that later came into the Sejm. Of course, as the Civic Coalition Club, we will be behind this bill because it is natural. If mistakes have been made, there can be no situation where entrepreneurs will be held responsible. Of course, we will support these rules so that this paper turnover of documentation can continue for another year, but as I said, you have to think about it, because the functioning of the state under your rule is a huge chaos, and in fact the prestige of being a parliamentarians should not allow us to function this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club, the Left has the honour to present our position on the parliamentary bill of 5 December this year. amending the excise duty law and the Customs law in print No 51. Today, we will be pleased about the project as a matter of urgency, for which there is a lack of any information on public consultations and expert opinions and analyses - that is why the Law and Justice have chosen the parliamentary project. As my previous speaker said, we are again extending the date of entry into force of the next law by a year. The Act of July 2018 amending the Excise Tax Act and the Customs Law introduced the application of the EMCS PL2 system and the electronic delivery document eDD into premises in the territory of the country outside the procedure of suspension of excise duty on excise goods taxed at zero excise duty due to their purpose. According to the Act of 1980 from January 2019 to 31 December 2019, the entity carrying out the movement in the territory of the country outside the procedure for suspension of excise duty collection of excise goods subject to excise duty exemption due to their intended use or excise goods listed in Annex 2 to the amended Act may, by reason of their intended use, apply the existing provisions until then, i.e. paper turnover. At the same time, the law was amended in 2019 and it was decided that the provisions of Article shall apply to delivery documents issued before 1 January 2020. 138 amended law in the version so far, i.e. paper documentation. Today's amendment extends the deadline for issuing paper-based documents in this trade until 1 February 2021 and so-called. paper turnover - until 31 January 2021 What is EMCS PL2? This is a computer system used for the movement of excise goods, energy products, alcoholic products, tobacco in the procedure of suspension of excise duty without paid excise duty in domestic trade, as well as intra-Community trade between Member States of the European Union in the framework of exports and imports. The participants in this system are entities, international organisations, diplomatic representations carrying out movements of excise goods in the procedure of suspension of excise duty within the European Union and representatives of tax authorities supervising the abovementioned. movements in both domestic and intra-Community trade. In order to operate in EMCS PL2, each entity and its representative is obliged to have an active IDSISC number transmitted on the e-Client portal. According to the applicants, the time since the previous amendment of the Act discussed today did not allow all entrepreneurs, entities, to adapt their internal IT systems to the changes in functionality provided for by the excise tax law. The proposed amendment thus allows the maintenance of the paper delivery document for the period indicated in the Act, which will allow entrepreneurs to adapt to the previously adopted solutions. At the same time, the Act allows businesses to choose the use of a paper delivery or movement document for excise goods in the EMCS PL2 IT system. An additional year of vacathio legis for this solution according to applicants will enable entrepreneurs to install new software, test it, interact with internal IT systems of entrepreneurs from different areas of the fuel industry, who have different accounting and storage accounting systems and then smooth transition from paper to electronic monitoring of goods subject to excise duty. But as always, as I said, we haven't looked after the case and we need to extend the law for another year to come into force. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My club supports the proposed solutions. I request that this proposal be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u144	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I would like to say that if we listened to all these statements, it would seem that today we are adopting a great thing that we are creating some interesting solutions that are really going to heal our economy, as we said earlier, and in fact we are just changing the date of entry into force of the solutions that have already been adopted. The aim is to simply introduce excise and customs-related arrangements a year later when it comes to electronic records. That's it. That's it. Because - difficult - it has not been possible for a long period of time to introduce the solutions contained in the Act and at the moment it is necessary to create such a solution quickly. This is a waste of time for the High House, the Government and all those who must work throughout the legislative process, because these two minor provisions must go through the whole legislative process. You could either hurry up and introduce these solutions earlier, prepare the tooling, or do it on another occasion. After all, for a long time, in that term it was possible to conclude that we would not be able to make it, so we are extending by a year and no one would resent it. It's better to find good solutions to make it work than to make a makeover. The parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will support this solution because it is logical. If the government didn't make it, we'd have to drop the rescue wheel and help solve this problem. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u145	Thank you very much for speaking. I now ask you to speak on behalf of Mr Michael Urbaniak's Confederation of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u146	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Draft law amending the law amending the excise tax law, which also concerns customs law. Well, we have to start by saying we're gonna support this project. We will support this change in the project on the extension of vacathio legis. We will do this mainly because we care about the good of entrepreneurs, we care about the well-being of our economy or the reduction of administrative chaos and, at the same time, the reduction of chaos concerning the procedures for implementing larger IT systems in companies themselves. We know that this is a long process, that it is an expensive process for most companies, and that is why we understand the proposal to extend the implementation period by one more year. At the same time, we are quite deeply concerned about the fact that the government could not predict the consequences of what it is implementing, that you could not prepare a project with a larger time horizon for implementing concrete changes. I assume you know it's a long process, but something didn't play out. So, like I said, it's only because we support this project that we want to avoid chaos. And we insist, we encourage you to pay more attention to this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u147	Thank you very much, sir. Would Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke still like to speak on this issue? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to explain that we support this type of vacathio legis, because the more time people have to prepare for change, the better. For example, it would be good for a good change to be about 20 years old vacathio legis - and we would also support it with certainty - and even better 30. Ha, ha, ha. I wanted to remind you that this is about what prints are like - pink, green. All this needs to be prepared. I want to remind you that when Wilczek's law was in 1988, behind a commune still so called, then everyone could take a tanker, go abroad, fill it up, come and sell it on the corner of the street. Thanks to this, it was a huge economic development, because no one controlled it. Unfortunately, I understand that the Polish People's Republic is coming back, and this commune is coming back from pre-wolves. And unfortunately, I'm afraid this even better change is difficult to stop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u149	Thank you very much for speaking. Let's get to the questions. I would like to inform you that seven Members have signed up for questions. If no one wants to turn themselves in, I close the list while setting the time to ask the question for 60 seconds, which is 1 minute. Then I ask that Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, speak. There isn't. Yeah, I signed up. There isn't. You didn't sign up. Ha, ha, ha. In that case, I now ask the floor of Mr Jerzy Materna, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On the basis of the article. 51 point 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I request that you join the second reading immediately after the end of the first, without referring a draft law amending the Act amending the Act on excise duty and the Customs Law, print No 51, to the committee. And the other thing. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I apply for no amendments to the draft law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law to committees and for a second reading after the Members have been served with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u151	Thank you very much for speaking. I now ask Mr Arthur Łącki, the Civic Coalition. This is about first reading. This is the first reading, sir. At second reading, put this together. Anyway, it's gonna be exactly the intention of the Marshal of the Sejm, so don't get upset. Objection. Now I ask Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you as an opportunity to ask a question. You are introducing amendments to the excise tax law, which include: obliges to change the form of recording purchases from paper form to electronic form and to adapt to the EMCS PL 2000. My question is. What about the micro-entrepreneurs? Will this change also be mandatory? There is no way, ladies and gentlemen, to introduce a computer system at a cost, to adapt it to the required system, because sometimes this system does not function in small, micro-enterprises. I am thinking here of small shopping points such as kiosks, grocery stores, which, by the way, sell excise goods and are subject to the same legal provisions in accordance with the draft law that you have prepared, like large oil companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will these points, these economic operators continue to benefit from vacathio legis, or will they be able to benefit from tax relief to adapt or create an electronic computer system to register the sale and purchase of excise goods?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the department! It can be said that it is a typical technical act, but we are translating its entry into force once again. And that paper circuit. Do you not today see a certain threat to the functioning of paper circulation in terms of revenue to the state budget? Is there any danger that the absence of an electronic register could be a reason for reducing revenue to the state budget? The second point concerns costs for micro-entrepreneurs, but also other economic operators. Is there a system of public support for those entities which are required to introduce an electronic register, public aid for the introduction of this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u155	Thank you very much for speaking. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left, will speak next.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, according to my opinion, will in no way affect the reduction in alcohol consumption. If we're actually looking for a problem, a threat... And that's not for this bill. But I'd like to tell you about the excise. But that's not the bill. Oh, okay, I'm sorry. Excuse me, fuel. It's fuel, ha, ha, ha! It's fuel, but it's different.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir. The last speaker will be Mr Romuald Ajchler, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u158	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just spoke to Minister Suski about this bill, and as you know, life is richer than our imaginations. And I would like to ask the ministers, possibly, Minister Suski, you can answer. This law does not apply only to micro-entrepreneurs, etc., but also to all those who buy fuel oil. Namely, if a pensioner has a single-family cottage and needs to tan this house or heat this building to buy 500 or 1000 l of fuel oil, he must be able to introduce an electronic system. In addition to this system, ladies and gentlemen, you must also have a trusted profile, because otherwise, if you do not have a trusted profile, you will not be able to buy fuel oil because no one will sell it to him (the bell). That's why I wanted to ask if that time was 11 or 12 months - I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal - you wouldn't use this law to make sure that those people who couldn't operate a computer, didn't have a trusted profile, could buy 1,000 l so that they could heat their apartments. These people are certainly not the ones who avoid paying taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u159	Thank you very much for speaking. The list of persons applying for the question has been exhausted. So please take the floor of Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very interesting debate, because it is indeed not simple to introduce only an electronic data entry system into the EMCS system. The e-DD system just assumes this mechanism, that we give up paper and here we have only an electronic system. But contrary to what the Members have said here, the fundamental problem, which is, that is the problem of implementation - that was also the problem on the part of some Members - that is, the problem on the part of entrepreneurs. We are dealing with a system that is complicated, which requires companies to make huge investments in changes in information systems. The Ministry of Finance is aware that this electronic system, which we want to introduce, which is actually used, i.e. the e-DD system, the electronic data entry system in the EMCS system, is about to be a simplification. The simplification of that is, if someone doesn't want to introduce... We don't enter by paperwork, we enter by electronic means. But in a situation where we are dealing with huge companies, such as those that rotate a huge amount of goods subject to excise duty, and at the same time these phenomena, events are very much every day, it is simply not enough to force a man, an employee to click, enter data. We need an automatic data input system. This is a fundamental problem that came up many, many months ago. Great Polish companies in the course of the implementation of these IT projects in their systems identified, said that they needed even more time. The events referred to in this law are so much that even at a stage just a year ago, when it was known that we were moving this project by a year, it was not identified, because the implementation of information systems in large organizations is about itself, that it was just during that time that there were problems. That's the basic problem. The government, the Ministry of Finance, facing all these problems, is aware that it does not face any risks on the part of collection. Here was the question of whether there would be any irregularities, whether we are generating problems here. No, the e-DD mechanism is supposed to be a simplification, to make life easier for entrepreneurs. But we cannot make this life difficult for entrepreneurs to simplify their lives by creating great tensions in the operation of large companies. And that's the basic purpose of this bill. We know that we want to simplify entrepreneurs' lives by introducing an electronic system, but it must be introduced when they are ready, when these IT projects are completed, when these systems are tested and there will be no problems with the functioning, no legal risks associated with the application of this law. And that's the basic reason. We try to support Polish small, large and medium-sized entrepreneurs. There was also a question about micro-entrepreneurs. Well, micro-entrepreneurs in the system have much easier, because the Ministry of Finance has made it possible to use an application called Generator. This application is free to download. If someone has an obligation to enter data into the EMCS system from time to time, this is how the Generator application can do it. Of course, this solves the problem of microcompanies in the sense that these events are simply not much and they can benefit from this application. Therefore, we have not heard any voices that this is any problem for microenterprises, because the Generator application is sufficient here. For large companies, however, this is already a big problem, because they do not want to use it manually. Any applications, whether the Generator or its own, using the employee, only want this system to automatically perform activities without having to employ additional persons, without having to bear the costs of employment. And for this reason, these big companies, Polish, foreign, those that are active in Poland and sell excise goods, reported this problem to us. Questions were raised about small and medium-sized enterprises. It's worth remembering that we're dealing with... It's here too, I have a feeling, one misunderstanding. The EMCS system concerns a system in which... It's about the so-called transaction. a suspended excise duty system, i.e. an event of the type: there is a sale of alcohol - alcohol is not yet subject to excise duty - an entrepreneur who is to make out of it, for example. medicine, i.e. is selling alcohol to the pharmacy, the pharmacy at home produces a drug that sells. In this sense, This is a good example, because it shows the mechanism of suspended excise duty, i.e. from the alcohol that is sold to the pharmacy, there is no excise duty collected. The EMCS system records the movement of this alcohol without paid excise duty so that there is no attempt, so to speak, to create a grey zone. The Pharmacy using the Generator app will be able to confirm the receipt of this alcohol, this application is just to solve such situations. On the other hand, standard situations where excise goods are involved, e.g. in the traffic kiosks selling cigarettes, liquor stores, they're completely out of the EMCS system, because there's just excise duty already paid for. We are therefore talking about very few cases where small and medium-sized entrepreneurs use the EMCS system. These are just the examples that were mentioned, such as this pharmacy that sells alcohol-based drugs at home. The question raised by Mr Aichler concerned the way in which this system is to work, from the point of view of the household, which is currently benefiting from excise goods covered by the suspended excise duty system. Oh, that's right. There's one important thing here. The excise goods covered by the suspended excise duty system are natural gas, heating gas in the sense that we are dealing with supply, but not in the standard system, not by a PGNiG type company, but through a system in which our own containers are used. Household owners sometimes heat their rooms, their homes just like this. Fuel oil is not the product covered by the suspended excise duty, in the case of fuel oil the excise duty is. The fuel oil is therefore completely not covered by the EMCS system. All we can talk about here is gas heating. In the case of this specific gas heating, the EMCS system also takes into account such a situation that confirmation of the occurrence of this gas can be made by anyone, without any obligations of the type just having a trusted profile, without registration. But we're talking about oil, Minister, and pensioners who don't have computers. Fuel oil is not covered by the EMCS system, there is no need to confirm anything in the case of fuel oil, because, like the Member or anyone buying cigarettes and not confirming any in the EMCS system... If I don't take it, you're gonna charge me. Mr... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Fuel oil is not covered by the EMCS system. I mean, don't make any fuss because it's not true. The only commodity in this area that is covered by the EMCS system is the heating gas. In this case there is no obligation, there is no way of recording. This is a simplified system whereby the seller may issue a transfer certificate for signature. In this sense, it is simplified. So this proverbial pensioner, who heats his house with gas, is not obliged to do any formalities. This is a simplified method so that there are no other ways that make it difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u161	Thank you very much to the Minister for speaking. And now please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that most of the questions, perhaps even all the questions, were answered by the Minister in full, and here was also one point that I would like to correct. They said the government didn't make it, and it's sloppy, that we're fixing some kind of mistake that's on the government's side. Well, ladies and gentlemen, of course, it can be said that the government could have given much more time to meet these requirements, but as we know, human nature is such that, as time is 2 years, people put aside certain things for the future and then, at the end, they can't make it. Sometimes setting a shorter deadline requires that we approach it in an immediate manner. And since there were numerous signals from the economy that it was very complicated, and there were requests, requests for an extension of the deadline, the government came out to entrepreneurs, which is for the benefit of the economy, for entrepreneurs and also for individual or even mass customers, for example in the case of aviation fuel. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a good solution for entrepreneurs. This is not some government negligence, so I would very much ask you not to mislead the public. There is also a request to criticize the government if it is doing something wrong, not when it meets expectations. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. Once again, I ask you to support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u163	Thank you very much, sir. In short correction, Mr Romuald Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u164	Minister! Since we don't have a problem with the gas tan and its delivery and here are the exemptions, why do you insist that a pensioner can't do it on the same principle as his neighbor - he's the only one who burns the gas and this one burns the fuel oil - and is subject to the same procedures? It's about 1,000 l, it's about 500 l. Why does this pensioner have to have documents to prove it to him? He has to confirm (the bell) that the oil has flown. They can't do that. Don't you understand that? Apparently, life is richer than our imaginations. Use those 11 months or a year to make it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u165	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. A request for accession to the second reading of the draft law was made immediately in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We therefore proceed to the second reading of the bill. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of this bill? There's a call. There it is. I'm opening a discussion. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Materna.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club at second reading wishes to propose an amendment to the draft law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law, print No 51. It's about getting Art. The Act shall enter into force on 31 December 2019. I would also like to make a request on behalf of the Law and Justice Club not to send to the committee amendments to the draft law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law and joining the second reading after the Members have been served with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u167	Thank you very much, sir. I don't see any more calls, so... Mr. Marshal, I'm on behalf of the KO Club. I see. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, Mrs Hennig-Kloska is speaking. I'm setting the speaking time for three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is the way of proceeding over laws by law and justice. Suddenly, the Member made a request to move straight to second reading. There are no Members in the sitting room at the moment - because the point as such ended a moment ago - who are carrying out this bill on behalf of the other parliamentary clubs. We don't really know... Maybe one of these Members would like to make an amendment, maybe not. They might not have left. I also raised an objection in my time, Mr Marshal, to moving straight to second reading, taking into account the fact that there are no Members in the plenary room because committee meetings are ongoing. It is not that Members have now gone to dinner or anything like that, but simply attend meetings of their committees, parliamentary teams, which have also been convened in the meantime. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I would ask you to take into account the fact that I was sitting there and objecting. The point is not to go straight to second reading in connection with the absence in the plenary room of Members who spoke on behalf of the clubs when discussing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u169	Thank you very much, Member. In the same manner, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, Mr Romuald Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm trying to talk you out of the bubble you're trying to bring in, which is to burden you with these trusted profiles, with the computer work of pensioners and pensioners, or with the older people who live alone. You deprive them of the sources of supply or the possibility of using fuel oil, for which they have prepared or spent a huge amount of money, or you force them to switch to gas. Well, is that a non-living approach? The one we're talking about here today. You're 11 months old. The left said she would support this bill, but use it as part of this... After all, this in one or two readings can be done, in a minute - make an exception for these people. If someone buys less than 1,000 l, there's no need... Paper orders, so far it's been working, and paper pickup. And electronically he's gonna have to confirm the impact of fuel oil on the pensioner. He has to confirm it, because if he doesn't, he has to pay the penalty right now. Let's see, High Isbo, what do we want to give these people? I am sure that I have convinced Minister Suski that I have convinced Minister Kowalczyk too. The point is to convince the finance department... Ha, ha, ha! ...who can prepare this bill for life, with exceptions. After all, those retired people who buy 2,000 l of fuel a year aren't tax frauds. They are the best taxpayers for any tax that operates in our country. I therefore call on you to take advantage of this situation. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u171	Thank you very much, sir. I state that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. Does the Minister feel convinced? Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is indeed a question about fuel oil. It is important to understand the misunderstanding, which is the basis on which Mr Ajchler claims that the EMCS system - i.e. The electronic or non-electronic reporting mechanism imposes any obligations on pensioners who buy fuel oil. That is not the case. I mean. I understand that the point is to be aware that there are two separate systems that include excise goods. There is a European system of EMCS, which concerns all international transactions and also those with suspended excise duties, and also within Poland, i.e. when excise duties are not paid. This system is based on the fact that if any fuel comes in, for example. from Germany to Lithuania through Poland, then in the European system there is this product, so that it is known that there is such a transaction that this excise goods without paid excise duty will not disappear and that all goods within Poland - even if this ethyl alcohol, which serves only and exclusively for the manufacture of medicine in the pharmacy, where there is no paid excise duty, will not disappear. And this is the EMCS system. Here we are talking about how to enter data into the EMCS computer system: whether paper or electronic, how to prepare these companies. Better electronically. But we're actually discussing here that the companies didn't prepare. We're delaying it. There is a second system that Mr SENT referred to - a system that was created two years ago. It concerns goods for which excise duty is already paid. This is about trucks. Mostly it's... This is the system that sealed our fuel system in 2016, 2017. In the second half of 2016, when this system came in, it allowed us to report all truck movements that carried fuel. And within this system - of course there is a list of goods covered by these obligations - among others. There's fuel oil, that's used for heating. And there is indeed the fact that these methods, which relate to confirming that this product has been accepted, broadcast, received, etc., have its structure. Of course, you can say: Why don't you adapt the SENT system to the EMCS system? I answer right away: yes, the work to adapt these two systems to simplify this, to make it similar, is carried out in the Ministry of Finance. This is quite complicated in the sense that it concerns two separate systems: the European EMCS system and our local system, which is really important enough for us to think five times - if we're making a change - whether we're gonna cause some irregularities in the SENT system. In the sense that these changes have to guarantee that we don't make a hole, because they're about to show up and take advantage of the criminal. I can therefore say and assure you that we are certainly doing our utmost to integrate these two systems into each other as much as possible... So you'll do anything? ...that these methods of entering data, e.g. The fuel fuel data for use was as simple as possible. We therefore, of course, take the Member's attention to the fact that this may be too complicated in the sense that... Actually, this isn't about having a computer. Indeed, the current system requires even a smartphone and confirmation in the application of the person who uses fuel oil. Ha, ha, ha! Oh, Jesus. Of course, the question arises: Why was this created? Because we are aware of large irregularities. We say: fuel oil is used for various purposes. If anyone says, "I'm using... We've had a lot of cases where someone says, "I'm buying fuel oil to heat the house." This oil is so much that it's actually -- I'll say -- it's unlikely, but it was really meant for the companies that carried out the road transport, pouring it into their trucks. So it was kind of a form of irregularity. But it's marked. So the SENT system is just to seal it. But I understand your fellow Member telling me not to do it at the expense of pensioners. We therefore take note of this and we will certainly work to make it as simple as possible. Well, then I'm satisfied, Minister, we've finally made a deal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u173	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was submitted to the bill, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading of the bill after serving the Members of the table of amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. But also in the voting block? Yes, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax (Print No 40). I ask Minister Leszek Skiba to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a government bill amending the Retail Tax Act, contained in print 40. The Act of 6 July 2016 introduced a new tax on retail sales into the Polish legal system. Its adoption was preceded by a broad public consultation, with the acceptance of many traders. The purpose of introducing a new tax, in addition to increasing the tax revenue of the State budget, was to compensate for the budgetary damage resulting from the application of optimization practices by large retailers in corporate income tax. However, by decision of 19 September 2016, the European Commission initiated a detailed investigation procedure on our tax. The Commission claimed that progressive revenue-based rates confer a selective advantage on low-income entrepreneurs, thus giving them an advantage over larger competitors, which infringes EU State aid rules. At the same time, the European Commission issued an order requiring Poland to suspend the application of this tax until the Commission has completed its verification of its legality. In order to avoid adverse legal and financial consequences of the application of the Act in the event of a negative solution to the dispute with the European Commission for Poland, the Sejm passed a law suspending the application of the Retail Tax Act until the end of 2017. We anticipated that the possibility of charging tax under the rules laid down in the Act would be resolved by that date. We were in the course of a formal complaint to the European Union Court for the Commission's preliminary decision on the Polish retail tax, which was finally submitted by Poland on 30 November 2016. On 30 June 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the The Commission issued a final decision on the tax and, contrary to our belief, concluded that it was in breach of the State aid rules. The Commission concluded that, thanks to progressive rates based on the size of the low turnover company's revenues, it had a competitive advantage. In the Commission's view, Poland has not demonstrated that progressive tax rates are justified in the case of retail tax on the whole retail sector or that companies at a higher rate are more capable of paying the tax. Poland disagrees with the Commission's assessment of the Polish retail tax in the context of the rule of law. Therefore, an action was brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union on 13 September 2017 also against a decision of the European Commission of 30 June 2017. In view of the continuation of the dispute with the Commission in court proceedings on 12 October 2017, an extension of the suspension of tax collection was adopted until the end of 2018. Both actions brought by Poland were combined for joint examination at the hearing and the delivery of the judgment. The hearing took place on 26 September 2018. By the end of this year, there was no judgment in the case and no date for its notification. Therefore, the suspension of the application of the Retail Tax Act was extended until the end of 2019. The proceedings before the European Union court were concluded by judgment of 16 May 2019. The Court of First Instance fully divided Poland's position and ruled that the retail tax does not constitute State aid. The Court of First Instance annulled both the Commission's preliminary and final decision on the retail tax. However, the judgment of the Court of First Instance is unlawful. The Commission has exercised its powers and brought an appeal before the Court of Justice of the European Union on 24 July 2019. The lack of legitimacy of the judgment causes that the legal environment in which the Polish tax would operate is still uncertain. In this situation, it is reasonable to suspend the application of the Act and the collection of tax for the next six months, during which it is likely that the judgment of the TSUE on the compatibility of the tax with the State aid rules will fall. Without the judgment of the Court of First Instance, the levying of tax under the rules laid down in the Act could put the State Treasury at risk of losses due to the need to refund the tax collected in the event of a disadvantage for Poland. The solutions proposed in the project will continue to suspend the application of the Retail Tax Act until 30 June 2020. We expect that by that time a ruling will be given favorable for Poland, which will allow the collection of the suspended tax. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! By passing the bill to the High House for consideration, I hope that it will be accepted with understanding and work on it will proceed smoothly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. We proceed to this part of our point. Please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice of Mr Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The justification given by the Minister for the bill amending the Retail Tax Act, print 40, clearly explains the context of this case. Personally, I would just like to point out that the law adopted on 6 July 2016 met with a strong understanding of the commercial environment. Surprisingly - I was working on this bill at the time - taxpayers expressed their gratitude for the introduction of tax, which is, I think, quite a big event. Unfortunately, as set out in the timetable, the European Commission is persistently pressing charges against this law. The unsuccessful trial before the European Court of Justice and the judgment of 16 May are insufficient. The European Commission appealed against that judgment. Integrity of the judgment causes, I believe, a small risk, but the risk that it may be different, makes the collection of tax from 1 January 2020 risky. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the six-month delay. We hope that by then the sentence will be final. I am fully convinced that this will be a judgment which shares the position of the Government of the Republic of Poland. Dear Marshal, As it is a very simple law, it moves the start date of the tax collection from 1 January to 1 July 2020 - I ask for a second reading without referring the draft law back to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u177	Thank you very much for speaking. I ask you to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on the position of the Civic Coalition club to the draft amendment to the Act on Retail Tax, print 40. The Act, as the Minister has explained here, is to suspend the entry into force of the commercial tax by another 6 months, which is until July 2020. This is the third suspension of the collection of this tax in connection with proceedings pending before a court of the European Union between the European Commission and the Polish Government, since the Commission originally considered that the progress applied in this tax could constitute unlawful State aid for certain points of trade in Poland. This dispute has not yet been resolved and therefore the tax cannot enter into force. We will propose that we continue to proceed with this bill. However, I think it's better that we discuss this on the committee. However, this does not mean that we are changing our view on retail trade tax, which we believe will be paid 100% by citizens, because like any sector tax it will simply be passed on to consumers. Previously we had similar sectoral taxes introduced into the Polish tax system, e.g. tax on financial institutions. Experiences show that 100% It was paid by citizens in the form of an increase in the prices of the services they use in these financial institutions. This is actually a big problem, it's a cost that has already become a symbol of the rule of law and justice, and which really has affected us in an important way since this year. Over the last four years, food, education, health, housing has been expensive, and that's a few, a dozen percent. But in fact, we are starting to feel this cost in a significant way for about a year. And unfortunately, we're facing further increases, higher prices of life. Therefore, it is not desirable to enter into force in the middle of the year of this tax and translate it into food prices. It will make the lives of citizens more expensive, which is why in our view this tax should be more dismissed. Why do we think there will be further increases in the cost of living? We know that we are about to see a very significant increase in electricity prices. Households are estimated to be 10% for entrepreneurs, these will be higher increases, reaching 20% by experts. These increases will translate into production costs and thus - the costs of the goods, the services that we use on a daily basis and which we buy. We are expected to raise fuel prices, as if small, because it is estimated that 138 PLN from 1 000. I, but again in the production system in the economy this will translate into an increase in the cost of manufacturing and manufacturing of goods and their transport from the place of production to the place of sale. We also have different growths, for example. rents in housing cooperatives. The reason is to increase the minimum wage and secure funds for higher wages in these cooperatives. That's how you could really exchange a lot. There will be an increase in prices for the export of impurities, which in turn will end up in our pockets, because the conditions for the segregation and disposal of waste have been tightened. In many places there is a rise in prices for parking or property tax, because local governments suddenly took away some of their income without taking up their tasks, so these local governments must find other sources of funding and often, defending themselves against a drastic increase in the deficit. or the impossibility of tightening their own budgets, they must raise different prices. It's all finalizing that the cost of our lives in the coming months will increase, quite drastically, in many areas. And as far as they may not cause the insolvency of households, they will make it much harder for us to live, especially for a group of pensioners, because the value of pensions does not go as fast as rising prices of different types. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, this tax, Minister, should be thrown out of the Polish tax system at all. I object to the transition from hand to second reading. I believe that this law should go to the Committee on Public Finance so that once again we can discuss how this tax will translate into everyday life for citizens and citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u179	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask you to speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, Mrs Anita Sowińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting the Left's position on the government bill amending the Retail Tax Act. Let me tell you a little secret. Do you know what entrepreneurs do? Management, planning, organizing, controlling. And do you know what the government does or what the government should do? Exactly the same thing. Management, but on a larger scale, on a national scale. The difference is that the trader is responsible every day for his decisions, his name and his financial responsibility. If the entrepreneur is not able to manage his company, the company suffers losses and, worst case scenario, the company falls, but this is the one company. On the other hand, if the government is not able to manage the state, it is translated into companies across the country. The paradox is that, for evil, mindless or simply slow decisions of the rulers, there is no responsibility. That is why responsibility is so important in the case of the government and the entire parliament. It's your decisions, or the lack of them, that decide whether or not the companies are there. As a result, this translates into all citizens. In the case of the Retail Tax Act, you clearly lacked responsible management, lacked imagination and lacked action. Perhaps because you are not responsible for your actions - either financially or even by name. On 24 July this year, the European Commission appealed against the judgment of the European Court of First Instance to the second instance. From that moment you knew, you, Prime Minister, knew that Poland would have to wait for the introduction of a new tax for the final judgment of the court. You knew the clock was ticking - tick tok, tick tok - but you didn't do anything. I therefore ask: Why did the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki no longer present this simple bill extending the suspension of retail tax in September? After all, it was already known that it would take longer to process this case in court. How are entrepreneurs supposed to run their businesses in this mess? How do they plan budgets, adjust their computer systems, print invoices, receipts? Do you think that's what you do at the last minute? You guys can skip the law. When you want, you print sentences when you don't want to, you don't print. Everything is due to you, but - and perhaps it will be a surprise to you - all others are bound by the law, both good and bad, passed in chaos and at the last moment, written on their knees and voted out at night in the dark. Ordinary citizens, entrepreneurs cannot expect exceptions from you. It's December 12th and the government is finally filing a bill. In fact, it is already over, because if the Senate uses all the time available for the legislative process, we risk that this tax will enter into force now, before the final judgment of the court, and that is unacceptable in the state of law. That is why the Left will support this project. We have no choice but to be responsible politicians and politicians, and we do not want to create even greater chaos than the one we are currently dealing with. And I would like to remind the government that governing a country is service, service to people, not the other way around. The government is only and until the manager of a house whose name is Poland. Manage this house with your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u181	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 responsible, mainly because of the concern for legal certainty, for certainty and stability of economic turnover, will not be opposed, of course, to delay the entry into force of the law under consideration, a law proceded for the next six months, because this is what the responsibility of all who sit in the Chamber of Members requires. This does not mean that we do not have any criticisms and criticisms about the substance contained in the Retail Act, the doubts primarily directed towards those who today find it most difficult to bring an end to the end, and whose practice of life for the last few decades shows that unfortunately they will be affected by the consequences of the entry into force of this tax, but today it is important to focus on the certainty of economic and legal turnover. I would also like to join the voices of the previous speakers indicating that we should not lead to a secular tradition of proceding laws here today, however, with the omission of the Sejm committees, even if it concerns technical projects, because this is a bad habit that does not serve good legislation, it does not serve to reflect well on the proceded laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u183	Thank you very much to Mr Krzysztof Paszyk representing the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Now I would like to ask you to speak on behalf of Mr Dobromir Sosnier's Confederation of Members of the Circle of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u184	I am pleased to take part in such a fierce debate with the numerous presence of your Members. In fact, we would like to vote against this law, because voting on the projects yesterday certainly does not deserve recognition. It is absolutely unacceptable to start the legislative process on 12 December concerning the entry into force of the tax, which is to enter into force on 1 January, because this means that in Poland entrepreneurs will not be sure what taxes will be paid in the new year by the end of December. This is a completely absurd situation, and there are no reasonable reasons for it, because the facts in this case have been known for a long time. Doing this in such a way, with a significant risk that we will have to do it here at all... that the bill will enter into force earlier than the novel will be adopted, so it is absolutely gross negligence and really cannot be allowed to do so in the long run. We would like to vote against, but in fact voting against this law would mean voting in favour of introducing a new tax. Of course, it is not right for us to do this as freedomists and opponents of the tax itself, which is why the Confederation will support this project, but the taste remains. I would also like to point out that on this occasion we see once again that Poland is not an independent country, that Poland is only a colony of Brussels. In this case, the European Commission has been dragging us through the courts for several years. Our country can't introduce tax. Paradoxically, in this case, the European Commission is acting in the interest of the Polish taxpayer, albeit with an absolutely nonsense justification. It is not known who to say right and who to root for, because on the one hand, the Commission is obviously wrong that it is public aid and on the other hand because it is wrong to delay the entry into force of a tax harmful to taxpayers for several years. So that this sad reflection will end. The Confederation will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President, who spoke on behalf of the Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. I would like to inform you that six Members have joined the task of questioning. If there are no more people, I close the list of speakers. Question time - 1 minute. I would like to ask the floor of Magdalena Łośko, representing the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why does the government propose, in a draft law, when the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union is not known, that the rules apply to sales revenue after 1 July 2020? If the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is not passed by then, are we to expect further transfers? On what basis was such a time limit set, not another time limit? Each company is working according to a certain pricing and financial policy plan. The record proposed by the Ministry introduces chaos. Whether or not the company will pay tax in a given year is affected, among others. to the state of employment, the possibility for employees to raise their salaries or the price of goods and services. Such regulations should be introduced several months in advance so that companies can take account of the need to pay a new tax in their financial plans and prepare themselves accordingly. Will the government provide companies with the opportunity to adapt to changes that may follow a possible government-favourable judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u187	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Of course, I take into account all the reservations that have been raised. I'm not gonna repeat them. This project shall have a detailed justification. When we read this justification, there are very serious doubts. 200 entities will pay retail tax. We're assuming there's gonna be the sentence we expect. From July 1st, you will be able to download it. I'm talking about the budgetary implications. Why, over a period of 10 years, the budget impact is minus 795 300 000. Evil? These are absolutely incomprehensible situations. Why are we introducing this tax? So there's a negative impact on the budget? Thank you very much. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u189	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, I apologise very much, Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u190	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The tax that the government has decided to postpone in connection with the ongoing proceedings is, of course, a tax. He is very enigmatically named: retail tax. Few people realize that this will have an impact on the price of products in shops. According to the Ministry's data, it is to be covered by about 200 companies, probably also medium-sized ones, which means that not only brands, but also Polish companies that try to operate in this difficult market, will be hit by this tax. And of course it is not difficult to imagine that these Polish companies, for which it will be a strong cost boost, will want to shift these costs to customers, which will of course result in an increase in the prices of goods in shops. Minister! In view of the fact that this tax actually hits Polish consumers (the bell), Poles who buy ordinary products in shops: bread, butter, milk, are you at all wondering whether in this difficult situation the upcoming slow-down does not withdraw from this tax? That would be wise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak on behalf of the Polish Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u192	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, Minister, with a question to you: Is there any reflection in the Ministry to modify this law so that, when it comes into force, firstly, it protects the poorest consumers in the market from such a direct transfer of this tax to the consumer, and secondly, so that in a proper manner, and not only theoretically, it protects the interests of the state budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u193	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Question to the Government: Don't you consider it reasonable to implement this law on 1 January 2021? The shift to mid-year means that businesses will indeed have very little time to start all this tribute, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. That's one thing. Secondly, such a healthy logic of taxing, burdening entrepreneurs is generally a matter of the new year. And thirdly, the question about the effect of this law: Will this law burden our Polish entrepreneurs, these family ones to a large extent? Of course, the law provides that the amount of free money is marked in the law, and is it only a tax on large markets (the bell) or will it also affect our entrepreneurs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u195	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you to confirm the thesis that the rise in prices of goods and services and the cost of living was just under the government of PO-PSL. Because here was the fear that prices would rise. So I will just remind you of the increase in consumer prices: 2008 - 4,2%, 2009 - 3.5%, 2010 - 2,6%, 2011 - 4,3%, 2012 - 3,7%. And under the rule of law and justice, price drop: in 2016 by 0.6% , increase by 2% in 2017, increase by 1.6% in 2018. So if you put it together, it was over 20% growth at the time, and then it didn't bother you. Now, on the other hand, fearing a very small inflation is absolutely inappropriate. So, provoked by the appearance, unfortunately, by the lying terror of the citizens (the bell) I present these data. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u197	Thank you very much, sir. I now request the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a very interesting discussion. Indeed, it is the case that today we are discussing the delay in the entry into force of this project. The first question - I am referring to Mrs Czernow's question - why there are downsides in numbers, why there are data in the OSR about a decrease, a negative impact on the state budget. Because, as standard, the tax in force is being implemented - the retail tax in its current legal state will start to run on 1 January 2020 - brings money to the budget. If we make a decision - and the High House decides, as I understand it, today the decision to move its entry into force - so that we do not charge this tax, we take away the revenue from the budget, and that is why we are here saying a negative effect on the state budget. Questions arise about this... It's worth looking at the context of time. In May 2019, actually on 16 May 2019, the Court of the European Union stated that the retail tax does not constitute State aid, i.e. Poland was granted a right. From this point on, it is clear that this tax will apply. Of course, we are dealing with a difficult situation, that we have a reference to the second instance, and we are looking forward to this decision. And for this reason, this six-month shift allows us not to surprise entrepreneurs just on January 1. It is certainly beneficial from the point of view of entrepreneurs to have time yet, but no one here will deny that this tax will simply enter into force. Sooner or later it will come into force and entrepreneurs already have enough time, because it has been more than six months since May to take a series of actions. They get another six months, so it's quite enough to prepare and conduct a full analysis of their IT, organizational, financial and financial solutions to apply this tax. So we are dealing with a very cautious approach to the entrepreneurs who will pay this tax. And indeed the full agreement that these entrepreneurs are not that many. This is the 200 entities mentioned, these are the largest networks that can be organized to pay this tax. Mr Pashika's question. I immediately confirm that the tax bill brings money to the budget. Solutions related to the implementation of this law, when the law enters into force when the retail tax enters into force, will safeguard the interests of the budget in such a way that money will simply go there. Therefore, the tax principle itself and the fact that money will go to the state budget certainly confirm that the budget will simply benefit from tax. And now we are dealing with the care of predictability, cooperation with entrepreneurs. They're not gonna lose the poorest. The tax was planned so that the largest networks, because we include the biggest trading networks tax, will pay it from their margin, i.e. from the profit they make in the course of their activity. This increased margin will be reduced, with this increased margin just entrepreneurs will pay this tax. Mr Suchoń asked if there was any reason to withdraw from the tax. On the one hand, we have the voices of many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who claim that there is inequality in terms of competition in the trade market, i.e. small and medium-sized ones, encouraging the government to fight for this tax and implement it. On the other hand, we have the information that comes from the project, from the structure of this tax, that it will simply be paid by the largest companies. It is therefore clear that the tax is favourable from the point of view of Polish entrepreneurs, especially those of small and medium-sized enterprises. But we are also clear that this somehow reduces the negative effects of scale when it comes to trade. Of course, the impact of this tax should be monitored on an ongoing basis when it acts, it will affect prices, it will certainly be extremely important to know how this tax works and how it affects trade relations, and how these companies operate. I'm sure it'll be monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u199	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. An objection has been raised in the light of the request for immediate accession to the second reading of the draft law. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the urgent draft government law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 (Print No 60). Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament (prints Nos 42 and 55). I ask Mr Zbigniew Babalski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday was the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee. At the meeting of the committee, the matter concerning the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland was discussed. Five amendments were tabled during the discussion. 4 were rejected, 1 was accepted. I have the honour and duty on behalf of the committee to ask the Sejm to adopt this resolution of the Sejm concerning the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u201	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Krzysztof Sobolewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The Parliamentary draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, contained in print No 42, concerns a change related to the revised electoral code, which was amended on 11 January 2018 in the field of formation of the State Election Commission. This amendment aimed at increasing the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities, including the State Election Commission. The changes made in the Election Code in January 2018 have either contributed to the fact that parliamentary and local elections and elections to the European Parliament have gone smoothly, especially parliamentary elections, the vote has gone smoothly and the results have been announced for the first time in history within 24 hours of the end of the vote. So all the accusations raised at the time with the amendment of the electoral code that these changes would lead to the election either not being conducted or ending with a total failure, were, as you can see, once again just throwing false accusations on the part of the opposition. And returning to the resolution proposed to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I would like to say that this is because there is a need to implement the provisions of the electoral code to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, i.e. that in this term of office the Sejm will be elected by 7 representatives who will be members of the State Election Commission. Of course, it is foreseen that this will be a choice proportional to the size of clubs and that it will be decided by the Sejm Bureau after these amendments have been adopted, after adoption of this resolution, by the deadline for submitting candidates. There is also an obligation to appoint these 7 new members of the State Election Commission by the President within 100 days. The draft also provides for the possibility of dismissing the members of the State Election Commission, provided that the application, together with the justification, is submitted to the Sejm Bureau or a minimum of 35 Members (The Bell), which is more than a draft law which can be submitted by 15 Members. In conclusion, Mr. Marshal, it is my honor to inform you that the Law and Justice will fully support these changes in the resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u203	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the coalition of Poland will address Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. The Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u204	Civic coalition, my lord marshal. Was I wrong? Poland, but it is the Polish Civic Coalition. Excuse me, Civil Coalition. That's okay, Marshal. It's at work. Dear Marshal, High Seym! The amendments proposed in this draft to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are, in fact, the implementation of the amendments to the electoral code which PiS voted in January 2018 - a very long time ago. These changes hit the foundations of democracy, the foundations of the rule of law. Probably for this reason, until urgent deadlines, PiS waited to implement these changes in the electoral code into the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. And these changes in the Sejm's rules are less important, because the original sin, or even I would say: the original sins were done just then, in January 2018. Two sins are now being implemented in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. It is about breaking up with the judicial model of the State Election Commission and introducing the possibility of dismissing members of the State Election Commission. Until now, there has been a judicial system, i.e. the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Constitutional Tribunal. We had such fuses that as a result of the long process of indirect selection of others, the independence and independence of the PKW members were guaranteed as much independence and independence as possible. What do we have right now? What we are now proposing is that as many as seven members of the State Election Commission will be appointed by the election of the Sejm. This is not only a violation of the Constitution, and in particular of the Article. 2 saying that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state... Here is a slight digression: not only in this case, but in general, when it comes to what PiS has been doing for 4 years, it is not the rule of law, but it is the rule of law. You don't break the law. To do the wrong thing, first it's the right, using the fact that you have most, you break. But, sir, there's nothing to laugh about. Then Banas come along. The most important thing, though. I said that breaking the constitution was one thing, but the fact that seven PKW members on nine will be elected by the Sejm is to break one of the fundamental principles of our civilization, European, Latin civilization, that you must not be a judge on your own behalf. Breaking this rule places us not in the Latin world, European world (the bell), but in the Asian world. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club, I have three amendments to make that save, I hope, this very terrible draft of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, concerning, among others. who has the right to apply for an appeal from a member of the State Election Commission. We also want the possibility of a cancellation of the State Election Commission, a body other than the Sejm, if it has already introduced such a law, to be for a very serious reason. This serious reason for us in this case is only a crime against elections. Thank you very much. Thanks for your patience.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u205	Thank you very much. Thanks. I now ask you to take the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, representing the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left parliamentary club on the print project No. 42, i.e. a draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The draft resolution concerns the regulation of matters relating to the designation by the Sejm of the members of the State Election Commission. Our first concern is the implementation of the article. 158 § 1 electoral code, i.e. Appeals of the members of the PKW. We are aware that the cancellation of people appointed to different positions actually has been successful on average by the governing team lately. The dismissal of the members of the CIC may be notified by the Sejm Bureau or by a group of 35 Members. In the draft resolution containing the proposal, the projector will be obliged to indicate the reasons for the request, but the provision in the form in which it is present gives, of course, the possibility of abuse. In the case of members of the State Election Commission, the appeal procedure should be legally limited in order to preserve the independence of PKW members. In addition, it should also be pointed out that the deadline is vague: a reasoned request. We recommended that specific reasons be considered within the time limit: a reasoned request to appeal a member of the PKW, but they were rejected. We are also aware that the amendment of the 2018 electoral code increases political control of the PKW, because after the changes only one member of the PKW appointed by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court will not come from political choice. We would like to be able to count on the independence of selected PKW members so that they carry out their duties without political pressure. In conjunction with the possible political appeal of PKW members, there is a threat of political impact of the PKW to a greater extent than provided for by the Act. Our concerns are also raised by the PiS tabled and the amendment to the Rule adopted yesterday at the committee meeting. 2, which is in its present form: the resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. We understand that this only applies in emergency situations that are urgent. It is difficult to justify that we are dealing with such a situation in the case of this resolution. Therefore, the parliamentary club of the Left requests that the resolution be rejected in its present form.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u207	Thank you very much, madam. Now, on behalf of the parliamentary club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, Mrs Jolanta Fedak will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once upon a time, 11 January 2018, the electoral code was amended in such a way that the creation of the composition of the State Election Commission was to deal largely with the Sejm. It is intended to select seven judges from among the judges who have precisely these judicial qualifications to be part of this election committee. So it's about the judges first designated by the Sejm, later appointed by your President. I am talking about this with some sarcasm, because we had enough time to think about how this creation could possibly be - since it is already in the electoral code or already in the law - to change it to make sense. But all of a sudden, there's a deadline in January. He's very distant, because it's only about a month before the Sejm gets these nominations, chooses to introduce you to the president, which is a short time. In the meantime, we're rushed to pass laws again. The first question I asked was, what is the catalogue - since we are continuing to say so, are we supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm after amending the Act - appeals of such a member of the electoral commission? I have received such an answer from the Members of the applicants that it is simply any. He might not like it, and it's obviously bothering me. Especially since the situation is ambiguous at first. Namely, the Sejm, i.e. the Members who are elected, create this power and have an absolute opportunity without any significant reason to dismiss this member, i.e. such a very strong pressure. It seems to me that this situation is so ambiguous that once again I ask you to think about it. It's clear. Because it causes even more distrust in the functioning of the Sejm and all the other organs. The recent elections indicated that nothing so terrible happened, that the State Election Commission quickly reported that it worked well. Maybe we should think about changing this electoral code instead of going back into the story of this appeal for no reason. I know you may have a grudge from the last thing that happened to NIK's boss, but, well, we're not here to treat injuries, we're just making a good law. I hope so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not gonna lay a hand on this. As a club, we will abstain from voting, considering that it is simply... You have changed this code and you will eat this frog. If you want to eat two frogs, because you're making this worse, you're welcome. We shall abstain from voting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u209	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krystian Kaminski will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the amendment of the electoral code in 2018, it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The intention of the amendment was to increase the participation of citizens in the process of running and controlling public authorities, and in fact it has a completely different effect. The election by the Sejm of seven of the nine PKW members is not an increase in the influence of voters on the public institution, but it is a limitation of independence, independence, neutrality, apoliticality and impartiality. The state in which people selected by politicians from PiS, Platforms, SLD and PSL will constitute the majority of these people will certainly not increase the prestige of this institution. In addition, it is another project of the PiS, which ignores 1250 thousand. voters of the Confederation, which causes representatives of the Confederation, despite democratic mandate, to be seceded by the PiS. The above rules conflict with democratic elections and anyone who votes in favour will vote in favour of a large part of society. Therefore, the circle of the Confederation will vote against changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u211	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Three Members have joined the floor. Would anyone else like to? Mr Urbaniak. If there are no more questions to ask, I close... Mr Mirosław Suchoń. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. The time to ask questions is 1 minute. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. So I ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Kukiz15 - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment to the Code only proves that the law and justice inventors are merely about personal changes. Besides, as in all reforms of Law and Justice, it is only about personal changes, not any improvement of the system, whatever it is. On the other hand, in the explanatory memorandum presented by the Member, he denied himself. If these elections have been conducted so well, then why do you want to change judges in the PKW unless you declare that they will appoint the same ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Dariusz Klimczak. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 - Coalition Poland, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am thinking of one fundamental question arising from the doubts raised by the applicant's representative presented to the High House. Namely, what are these criteria that will make the High House change its composition? Is that, I don't know, the club's lack of trust? Any offenses? What nature, the question. Or, I don't know, the loss of trust in your president will be, for example, with this factor, which will make the state as the majority of the parliament quite freely able to make changes to an organ that should have extremely high independence. It is important, sir, that the High Chamber (the bell) should have these doubts resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the applicants about these scandalous rules regarding the dismissal of a PKW member, about two things. 35 Members may apply for an appeal. Only 35? She said yesterday in the committee: "But 15 can come up with a legislative initiative. Yeah, because we're the lawmakers. But if we want someone else to have a legislative initiative, we don't say 30 or 35 citizens, we say 100,000. That's the difference. And here we are interfering with the PKW. Second thing. I have a question: Did the story with Mr Banas and his many problems affect the fact that you are introducing rules on the basis of which it is possible to apply for the cancellation of a member of the PKW without giving a serious reason? After all, such a recipe is like the sword of Damocles hanging over every member of the PKW. Each member of the PKW (the bell) will remember that in a moment 35 Members will be able to ask for him to stop being that member of the PKW. What kind of election control is that gonna be? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u217	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This change is obvious. It is about ensuring that law and justice can influence the decisions of the State Election Commission. If we look at the history of such changes - only personal changes, because that's what it is - which were done by Law and Justice, then we will see the history of the Misiewiczs, we will see the history of the KNF scandal, we will see the last story, President Banas as the head of NIK. Now, the question to law and justice: How do you want to guarantee the quality of the election processes carried out by the CIC, since all your changes - as to the one you have made, personal changes in all state institutions, in the judiciary - have only contributed to the deterioration of the quality of these offices, to the deterioration in the work in these offices (the bell), about the people who have key functions in these offices? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u219	Thank you very much, sir. I ask that Mrs Barbara Bartus, the applicant's representative, take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u220	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the point where the questions are asked, the Members who asked them said that everything was clear. On the other hand, from these statements made here just moments ago, it appears that you really have doubts about what we are considering now. I'd like to remind you that we are attempting to amend the Sejm's resolution on the rules of the Sejm. This amendment concerns the extension of Chapter 5 of the Election and the appointment and withdrawal of public authorities, which are the result of the amended Act of the Code of Election. The electoral code, which has been adopted by the Sejm, and the amendments to this code which have been adopted and which are in force, oblige the Sejm, inter alia. to elect five members of the State Election Commission. Seven. In this Act, the electoral code, in Chapter 2, which speaks of the State Election Commission, is the exact composition of this committee and it is clearly stated that seven persons qualified to take the position of judge are designated by the Sejm. There is also talk of proportionality, about reporting by clubs. We work in the Sejm under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which is why these rules must be implemented in our Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Therefore, this draft resolution, on which we are proceeding. There were doubts about the proposal by 35 Members to justify it. So I'm going to point out what it looks like again. In fact, it is not the Sejm that appoints and dismisses these members of the State Election Commission, it is the President, by decision. But this resolution is based on the resolution of the Sejm, a resolution adopted by the Sejm. Not by 15, 30 or 35 Members, but by the Sejm. If we are talking about the cancellation of the members of the State Election Commission indicated by the Sejm, then the procedure appears to be such that a draft resolution must be submitted, which contains a reasoned request. The persons who submit this draft resolution must write a justification, state why they want to appeal the member of the State Election Commission. Only this draft resolution - like any draft resolution, like any draft law - is being proceded by the Sejm. The Sejm may adopt such a resolution and ask the President to revoke this member of the State Election Commission. What's the reason for that? We can't tell what the reason for the appeal is, we can't make a closed directory. I hear there's an amendment to make it just because of the election crime. In order to determine that there is a crime, there must be a sentence that determines the offence, because if there is a suspicion, there is no criminal offence yet, someone is not convicted of the crime. Now we have a situation where there are legitimate concerns that someone has committed a crime. At the time of introduction of such a closed club catalog, which e.g. Once this person pointed out, he would not have been able to submit such a request and such a draft resolution until a judicial decision was given. That is why we do not make a catalogue of examples of reasons here, but write carefully the draft resolution with a proposal to be justified, signed by at least 35 Members. If we have such a draft resolution, then the Sejm must normally proceed over it and accept by majority. it or reject it. The mere submission of an appeal does not mean that it is already a request for an appeal addressed to the President. I think that the discussion that took place here resulted from the misunderstanding of the provisions proposed in this draft resolution. I think that we should all be careful to ensure that the State Election Commission has the right conditions to hold elections and that this is fully, properly regulated also in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. In my opinion, this draft resolution fulfils these conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u221	Thank you very much, Barbara Bartus, the applicant's representative. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity for the purpose of submitting a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government bill amending the Act on Social Insurance and the Act on National Tax Administration (prints Nos 41 and 54). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u222	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance and the Act on National Tax Administration. The Act was included in print No 41. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. In short, it concerns a small ZUS. The Commissions: Public Finance and Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading, considered the draft law at its meeting on 11 December. During the discussion, the problem of abandoning the income criterion and leaving only the income criterion for the use of a small ZUS was raised. The Commission has left the provisions of the government project in this respect. The Commission has tabled amendments: two of a technical nature, one concerning, inter alia, the need for the Social Insurance Institution to justify the request for documents from an economic operator, if these documents, these data can be obtained by other means, and three interlinked amendments, which in fact move the entry into force of the Act and the consequences of the late entry into force of the Act, which will take place during the financial year, specifying also the methods of calculating revenue. Finally, the Joint Committees: Public Finance and Social Policy and Families request that the bill be adopted together with the amendments adopted according to the wording contained in print No 54. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u223	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice of Mr Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government bill amending the Act on Social Security and the Act on National Tax Administration. The draft in print No 41 is already after first reading in the Committee on Public Finance. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, chairman of the committee, discussed the changes proposed so far during the process on this document. It is worth to say that the government is very quickly fulfilling its promises - the announcement of the extension of the program - the Little ZUS. or the Little ZUS+. we already had Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in an exposé. This is good news for people who thought that today the costs of entering the market, running the business are very high. An important, important item in terms of these costs is the social security, pension, pension, health and accident contribution. The idea was to lower it. In a project that the Law and Justice Government had already proposed in 2018, and the Sejm introduced a law in July, such a reduction, the introduction of the possibility of paying a lower contribution took place. It was used by 186,000. persons. Such data shows us ZUS in the assumptions of a new project, which increases the amount of revenue that gives us the right to use this reduced level of payment of ZUS. We have a plan in mind that the beneficiaries of this project will make about, I think, over 320 thousand. persons. That's good news. At this point Poland will join the countries of the European Union and OECD countries, which in many cases have a tight rate of contributions with income. Here, in the course of the work on this document, there were positions that it was necessary to tighten it more closely with revenues due to the fact of different margins in many industries where entrepreneurs are active in the field of which they achieve their revenues and their economic performance. This is undoubtedly a good direction. Let me remind you that the Government of Law and Justice also had the courage to reduce to the lowest business CIT tax in Europe for entities with revenues below 1200 000. Euros. And this is still the direction we want to encourage people to do business, reduce the cost of doing business. Of course, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a lower contribution will also result in the calculation of a lower pension benefit in the future, which is worth remembering, but this permission and consent are found in those people who are just starting business today. We want these micro-enterprises to become medium-sized, medium-sized, so that family businesses grow very quickly to gain a better competitive position in the services market. Because it is this regulation, it seems, will be strongly tailored to companies that persist with the fact that they provide services that have a very high margin. Less will be beneficial for those entities that achieve very fast high revenues and benefit from a very low margin. So she's addressed to small service facilities, to equipment repair facilities, to, I think, lawyers, to people providing consulting services. Let's hope this is the beginning. Also roads in this direction, that the situation of public finances in Poland will allow to create new, far-reaching programs that will further encourage people to actively behave in the market of services in the business undertaken and carried out successfully. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this project (The Bell) and at this stage we do not make any amendments to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u225	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u226	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Any proposal that reduces the fiscal burden on entrepreneurs should be carefully looked at. This should be looked at with attention, but above all, projects that concern the widest possible range of Polish entrepreneurs should be supported. In total, there are 2.5 million self-employed people in Poland. It is these people who work hard every day and work honestly, conscientiously and honestly to pay their taxes. Our role as parliamentarians and the role of the state is to create the right conditions for their development and activity, not to treat them as machines to bring money to the state's money. It is good that this small ZUS has been extended to make the basis for the calculation of the ZUS contribution income. A year ago, when we talked about this, these proposals were repeated, but the government did not want to hear it and it turned out that only 180 thousand. entrepreneurs expressed their willingness to benefit. But how many have benefited, we don't know. So it's $1,200,000. Entrepreneurs who pay this entire contribution are very few. Turned out to be a mess. Unfortunately, the new proposal may be right in some places, but on the other hand it does not meet the needs that entrepreneurs report on such a large scale, and at the same time it can be said that it was the mountain that gave birth to a mouse, because of the 1,200 thousand. The project will cover only 320 000 entrepreneurs. That means 3/4, which is 75%. , entrepreneurs paying contributions to the Social Security Office each month will be excluded from this. Is that the best solution? No. There are solutions that are better that will support entrepreneurs more in running their own businesses and make them easier to run these businesses. It is important that after these 2 years or 2.5 years The business year did not immediately receive a cash increase in the ZUS contribution, because many might threaten to close their businesses, because they would not be able to just earn those contributions. For those who have little income, it may be right, because they will pay a smaller contribution to the Social Security Office, but there are only 1/4 of them. What do we propose and what do we want to do in this regard? We propose that the basis for the calculation of the ZUS contribution should not be 60% average wage, but minimum wage. This means that next year entrepreneurs will not pay contributions to ZUS and NFZ in the amount of PLN 1444 and PLN 1261. It's almost 200 zlotys of benefits and savings. This is, in our opinion, a much better proposal that will cover all entrepreneurs, and will not only be addressed to a smaller part, only 1/4 will be able to serve. Secondly, we propose that those who are young entrepreneurs, who are just starting a business, want to implement their creative ideas, be exempt from the need to pay contributions to the ZUS and the NFZ. The budget will not lose much because the number of young people active is relatively small. Only 35% of young people work, the rest are inactive. So if we give them the opportunity to start their own companies without having to pay contributions to the ZUS and the NFZ, they won't have to worry about whether they have enough to run their own company. They're not active today, and they don't pay taxes. So if they activate and are exempt from these taxes, it's better for them, better for the economy as a whole. And it's the right thing to do. The third issue concerns the income limit. The government proposal assumes 120,000. income for those who can catch the so-called. Little ZUS+. I will refer to what the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises said yesterday. It should, according to his proposal, change revenue to 500,000. zł, and then completely abolish it, because some people, although they have a large income, have very high costs at the same time, and even a very low margin, and may simply not catch on to this program, and it may turn out that this program would also be very useful for them. So we also propose to increase this limit to 500,000. And these three amendments I'm putting on your Marshal's (Bingle) hand. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u227	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Trela, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the Small ZUS programme was a step in the right direction, so the Small ZUS+ programme should also be assessed very similarly: this is a solution that will help entrepreneurs, and in this case there will be almost 300 thousand and even more than 300 thousand entrepreneurs. If we're dealing with an increase of over 100,000. the number of people doing business, it should be said that this solution is good. I am very pleased that one proposal was consummated, which was made by the Left regarding the entry into force of this law, because we talked about the fact that this project should come into force on 1 February at the earliest, and this amendment is accepted. On the other hand, I would like to propose an amendment on behalf of the Coalition Club of the Left, which would replace the sum of 120,000. zł as the border where the small ZUS+ applies, and this amount is replaced by a multiple of the lowest salary for work. Of course, I'll make the appropriate adjustments to the marshal. I would like to say that the Left proposes that it be 45 times the lowest wage. This will be close to 120 000 in 2020. zł. On the other hand, we will have a guarantee and businesses will have a guarantee that the higher the minimum wage, the higher the quota threshold globally each year. And as we have heard Mr Kaczyński's hurrahoptymistic announcements, in 3, 4 years, there will be an amount of 4,000. zł lowest salary, so it is easy to calculate that this would already be the amount of 180 thousand. zł. And I think it's a step in the right direction. So the relevant amendments to the bill amending the Act on Social Security and the Act on National Tax Administration, which basically changes the amount of 120 thousand. I'll allow you to pay the Marshal once and for all. Of course, two further amendments are derivatives, which must also consume this amendment and the fundamental proposal from the formal side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u229	Thank you very much, sir. I am now asking Mrs Agnieszka to come forward on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the draft law on printing No.41, on the amendment of the Act on the Social Insurance System and the Act on the National Tax Administration. This is the continuation of the so-called "Procededed Law" a year ago. a small ZUS, a minimum step, I do not even know if very minimal, with a noisyly announced constitution for business, which unfortunately has not been largely implemented in the last term, and it is not expected to be implemented to a large extent. But this is undoubtedly a necessary step to relieve small businesses, small businesses. The fact that it was used by 180,000. economic activity shows that this change was in some way necessary and necessary. The projected change, that is to go further, extending this group of customers to 320 thousand, is, of course, always a step forward, and that is why we bend over and probably support it when it comes to the whole club. On the other hand, it has minor shortcomings and promises a certain thing, but one very important thing it does not say. It indicates the amount that will appear in the budget, and it will cost the budget. So this relief is actually designed for 1 billion 100 thousand, and averaged at around 1400 million, sorry, millions of the cost per year. That's a relief for the 320 grand. And we have 950,000 left. economic activities which will not be subject to this relief, while from next year they will pay 150 PLN additionally to this large ZUS, which in fact will cause no less money in the budget, but there will be 1,700 million more. So, in fact, the government doesn't make a lot of entrepreneurs, it's just that it's a relief that the other entrepreneurs really do. So this understatement, I think, is very important because entrepreneurs need to be aware, the more that the criterion that has been retained here, the income criterion, is absolutely unfair and, not knowing why, excludes a large part of entrepreneurs who, for example. they are engaged in Polish trade, which neither the European Union nor any previous government programmes have supported and which are gradually dying. Who has the trade, who has the shelves, it decides the economy, so it is illogical from the point of view of the economy that these traders, small and small merchants just basically cut out of this possibility. As a club, we are proposing an amendment that is in line with what the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs expected, and we are putting up with it, and we are not reducing it, but we are really asking for the abolition of this income threshold completely, because income is not really an entrepreneur's wealth, it is just an income and it is enough to make a profit criterion. If it remains in the amount of 6,000, it will actually be directed to those who are about to create the announced middle class and are about to earn money, so we think it is unnecessary. That's the amendment we're going to make. Of course, we also believe that the time criterion is a criterion that is not needed either, because if we are talking about companies that are to develop Or somehow they're gonna have that start-up money, so we have one relief from a short, two-year start-up time. But if we're talking about entrepreneurs who run small-scale services or small-scale production, they're not really going to develop this business for three years, because there's not going to be any big money here. They're gonna keep their income at 6,000. And it's worth not sticking them in the gray zone after three years or causing them to shut up. So we believe, like the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the businessmen themselves, that the temporary duration of this relief should simply not exist. We are proposing an amendment which abolishes this time and causes that if the entrepreneur does not exceed this income, 6 000, he will still be able to benefit from lower fees. Of course, I would like to say that the comprehensive solution is the solution that we proposed in the bill, where the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club - Kukiz15 submitted a project, which is widely accepted, tested in other countries, voluntary ZUS. We believe that 20 years of payment by an entrepreneur is just as fair to pay as any other employee in Poland. 20 years, and in the remaining years, the opportunity to invest in the development of your own company, putting off in your own way, because we are talking about entrepreneurial people, people who can manage their own money, turn gold for the benefit of the economy, for their own family and for their own future. It is worth to trust them, just as the Germans trusted their entrepreneurs, and it is worth letting them make a voluntary contribution to ZUS-owska. This solution is really comprehensive (The Bell) and we ask you to lean on this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u231	Thank you very much, Member. Now I would like to ask Mr Jakub Kulesza, who will present the position of the Wheel of the Posel Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to say that the smallest entrepreneurs, despite all this government propaganda, are not the beneficiaries of a good change, are basically victims of it. Through further difficulties in doing business, small and micro-enterprises become the most oppressed social group. JPK, split payment, white list of taxpayers, Central Register of Real Recipients, STIR, BDO are just some of the inventions of the current and previous government, which are subject to the same large company and corporation as the smallest, even single-member business. President Jarosław Kaczyński, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister Emilewicz often spoke at press conferences in the election campaign about the advantages, preferences presented, introduced for small and micro-entrepreneurs. Meanwhile, we have an increasing cost of doing business, more and more responsibilities and more penalties. Running even the simplest business activity in Poland becomes more risky than professional criminal activity. There is no need for any relief, no by-passes, no runways, no pros, no cons, no exemptions that are created so that only a few percent of companies in Poland can use them. We need a major change here, so we are calling for a change in the whole social security system for entrepreneurs, preferably for the voluntary system that is in the countries of Western Europe, for example. at our neighbor's, in Germany. Back to the act, little ZUS, who's gonna be involved in the project? Unfortunately, just a few micro- and small entrepreneurs, basically just micro-, because the little ones no longer catch up, while 90% entrepreneurs from next year will pay higher ZUS. I therefore appeal on behalf of micro and small entrepreneurs to all Members to take care of a group of 1.5 million entrepreneurs and to vote in favour of amendments, which include. The Confederation reports that the small ZUS project should cover as broad a group of entrepreneurs as possible. I understand that we are not going to change the whole system today to some honest, preferably voluntary one, but let's assume today that we are just leaving a profit criterion, and that we are eliminating an absurd income criterion of 10,000. zł, which is an absurdly low amount. Even the traffic kiosk or the grocery store can't survive on the market with only 10,000. income. Income, not income, because it is very often for some politicians, including ministers, who are wrong. This project completely discriminates against any commercial activity. In order to achieve an income of 5,000. zł, another revenue should be earned in the service industry, another in the commercial sector and another in the production sector. According to the government project, a small ZUS could benefit from at most part of the service activity. Finally, it is necessary to eliminate completely incomprehensible restrictions on the validity of the small Social Security Office for up to 3 years. Someone who prepared this project and put in such a nonsense condition never did business. The vast majority of micro- or small-business activities are carried out on a scale from which income is intended to meet the needs of the entrepreneur's family. Such an entrepreneur is self-employed and has no ambition to become Orlen or Amazon. The state forces him to work more and more, grow and grow into an increasingly large company, forcing him to do so, using punishment from the beginning of the fourth year of his business, i.e. the increase of the ZUS by almost 300%. This undermines the freedom to conduct business. Entrepreneurs should decide for themselves whether they want to grow and grow, whether they want to remain a small company, and here the state imposes on entrepreneurs how to operate. For 3 years, the entrepreneur pays contributions of PLN 500.600 and suddenly in January of the fourth year he will have to pay 1500, or almost three times more. It cannot be that an entrepreneur who has not been able to pay high ZUS contributions is thrown out of the apartment, with his family landing under the bridge, the bailiff on behalf of ZUS is bidding, selling this apartment and depositing money into the ZUS account of this entrepreneur in order to ensure that he has a pension. The present life of entrepreneurs is being destroyed in the name of future precarious retirement. It's a sick system. This is supposed to be a contribution to your own retirement in the future, so it cannot be such a huge burden that prevents normal functioning. I therefore propose and appeal to Members to accept the amendment that I am making (the Bell) on the elimination of the income criterion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u233	Thank you very much, sir. The question has been asked by 11 Members, High Izbo. I'm closing the list, setting the time to ask a question for one minute at the same time. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. So I would ask Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition. Too fast. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u234	If we want to talk about this project, I think there are many criticisms and opinions about the weaknesses of this project from all sides. First of all, income - in this respect we are talking about income, not income related to the activity of taxpayers. Such a solution does not fully satisfy and treats the economic operators in an unequal manner. The State of the applicant refers, for example, to traders who conduct business activities - in this respect, with low margins, their income is very low. Unfortunately, this solution does not meet the expected condition. Secondly, it does not activate young people, because by the age of 26 the state proposed that workers should not pay the tax (the bell) and in this case the young state does not activate, and the activation of young people should also be the basis for this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u235	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u236	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill provides for an extension of the catalogue of economic operators entitled to reduce social security contributions. Consequently, this will result in less revenue for the Social Insurance Fund. And my questions. Did the government, when submitting this bill, think about the amount of future pensions for entrepreneurs benefiting from this relief? Will the government guarantee them a minimum pension in the future? If so, where is this provision guaranteeing this minimum pension? Did the government estimate how much lower the benefits would be for those who would benefit from this pension trap? 'Cause you could call it that? And one last question. Does the government intend to launch a campaign to inform that taking advantage of this relief will involve not only lower pensions in the future but also lower sickness and maternity benefits as early as 2020? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u237	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the process of the bill amending the Act on Social Security and the Act on National Tax Administration, if you listen to the statements, a few questions arise. Firstly, have there been any studies on how this change will affect entrepreneurs? Is the government aware that this will undermine the competitiveness of small businesses? Does the government know that it is already December and entrepreneurs do not know what contribution they will be paying from January 2020 today? And one more thing. Why were clearing companies excluded in a different way than on the basis of the general principles of PIT in relation to the small CSO? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u239	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, on the one hand, the government has a wonderful, I would say, an object to create a propaganda image that goes against entrepreneurs, but if we look at the substance of this project, we will notice at least a few problems and probably shortcomings or conscious omissions. It goes on for example. by a very low amount which entitles you to use it - 120 thousand. zloty zloty. I must say that there is probably no common sense person in the ministry who has experience in doing business. If such a person had been and had already been running a traffic kiosk or a vegetable kiosk mentioned here, she would have realized - and, I think, enlightened the staff of the ministry, the government - that this is the amount that has nothing to do with real work, with the real income of entrepreneurs who (Dawn) are doing their business. Therefore, I have a question for the Ministry: How has this amount been calculated and is it true that it was meant to limit, as much as possible, a group of entrepreneurs that could benefit from this mechanism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u241	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u242	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We have heard many times in the statements of the Prime Minister and representatives of the government of PiS that a large number of entrepreneurs are supported, who run their businesses, that they are facilitated by these business activities, but let's look at the facts. In the Doing Business report prepared by the World Bank Poland is on 40th place, and two years ago it was on 27. What happened that the rules of doing business got so much worse that we were getting lower in this ranking? Worse still, with regard to the part of the report, which refers to the ease of business opening, Poland is on 128th place in 190 countries. Minister! How does the government intend to change and improve this situation? As it turns out, the proposal prepared by the government, i.e. a small ZUS+, will only reach a narrow group of Polish entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This needs to be extended and really supported by those who work hard every day and pay fair taxes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u243	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Jolanta Fedak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I haven't been here for a few years, and I'm surprised to see that in the retirement system, everyone who knows about it is the most important minister of economy, small, medium-sized enterprises, big and bigger, and smaller, etc. You have your mechanisms to stimulate business. There's a lot of taxes in this country, reliefs can be made for what you want, but the pension system is to secure the old-age entrepreneur, too, so that he just gets a pension. That's what retirement is for. My question is this: Why doesn't the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy deal with this issue, but anyone who wakes up in the morning? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u245	Thank you very much, Minister. And I would now like to ask the floor of Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft of changes shows how the Law and Justice Government treats entrepreneurs in a lens. The question is essential: Why do you not approach the changes that they offer to entrepreneurs in a systematic manner, but only produce legal michałki, which are basically merely a simulation of the change of law and a simulation of the facilitation of doing business in Poland? Do you not understand that the great majority of entrepreneurs who are watching your legislative proposal feel even deceived? Because propaganda announcements, especially those issued on public television, represent in a completely different way those changes that the government is presenting today in a very poor proposal for change. Why are you e.g. Don't they offer a voluntary ZUS contribution to self-employed entrepreneurs? This would be a real change that entrepreneurs in Poland would see, and it would not be the legal michałki that you are proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u247	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Studies that have recently been carried out indicate that nearly 70% micro-, small entrepreneurs would like to introduce a solution, which their German colleagues have been using for many years, i.e. voluntary ZUS contributions. Such a project was submitted by the Polish People's Party in the last term. This year we will reassign it as the Coalition of Poland. This is a comprehensive solution, something that could give the development of almost 1.5 million self-employed people over the years. I think that entrepreneurs today expect such a comprehensive solution, not for a short time, for 3 years and uncertainty about what to do next. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Why is Law and Justice, the government so resisting the proposal of voluntary contribution of the Social Security Office?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u249	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I think we got away with something in the discussion that maybe is a detail, but it's unique. I would like to ask the Minister to recall here the amounts calculated by the government, which, as a result of this regulation, can be provided by local government units. I think that it will not be large amounts, but in view of the numerous attacks that the government's proposals often reduce the revenue of local government units, it is worth saying that in this case it is the other way around. I would also like to ask you to recall the amount that will be retained in the business portfolio and will have to be supplemented by grants or loans from the state budget to the Social Insurance Fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u251	Thank you very much. The list of Members asking questions is closed by Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The greatest weakness of this presentation is the issue of pension insurance for those who are engaged in economic activity, because it is not as Mr Jończyk said... Janczyk! ... Janczyk. It is not that there will be any compensation for paying a lower contribution. For this reason, it will simply be a much lower pension or there will be no pension at all. In extreme cases, it takes 35 years for a woman to do business to meet the statutory requirement - a 20-year period for paying a full contribution from a minimum wage - or 43 years for a man. Those are the provisions of this law, that's just the reality. In view of the above, it may turn out that instead of a small ZUS+, the entrepreneur will receive a small ZUS+ minus pension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u253	Thank you very much, sir. The questions asked will be answered by Minister Marek Niebżak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I tried to write down all my questions. It seems to me that some issues appear in various statements, but I would like to draw attention to a very fundamental issue which appears in the votes of the Members of the opposition and is indeed full of contradictions. It is absolutely so - and every time we repeat it, and this is an extremely important part of this project - that it means an exception to the general principles and a reduction in social security contributions, which will, of course, result in a lower pension. And that's what we all know. We need to be aware of that. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, the SME spokesperson also said that he even committed himself to taking promotional action in this area because he wanted to be aware of it. Now, on the one hand, I hear voices that say why this reduction isn't wider, it's not bigger than what the limit is for. On the other hand, there's a vote about pension insurance. This project has to do with itself - and in general all the changes in this subject matter have to do with each other - that we have to balance two interests. One interest is the amount of the contribution Here and now, and the other business is retirement in the future. And that's why this project is -- the expression I'm going to use -- calibrated. He is calibrated on the one hand in such a way that he takes into account the costs for the budget, which he will have to cover the losses in the fund due to the fact that there will be fewer contributions, and on the other hand in such a way as to cover several hundred thousand Polish entrepreneurs. This is a dozen percent of entrepreneurs, given how many of them we have registered, active in CEiDG. It's known that this is a one-man activity, so this is all we're talking about here. It seems to me that the introduction of relief, the exception to the least of a dozen percent, is not a project for anyone or a project for several entities. At least in my dictionary, three hundred and tens of thousands of entities are not several entities. That's the first thing. The second thing has also appeared here many times. Income as a criterion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this revenue is a decisive criterion for determining the size of the business. The definition of SMEs, adopted in European law, and thus recycled to our right, is based on the category of not income, just turnover, sales, income... Employed employees. ...and the number of employees, of course. These are criteria objectively referring to whether a company is large or small. This is the solution for the smallest companies and that is why here the input criterion, this limit, is the revenue limit. There is no income limit in the Act - it also appeared here in some statements. The income limit, which is sometimes referred to in the debate, stems only from the fact that this proportionality is no longer profitable and the transition to a lump sum is worthwhile. And there's no hard line in the rules: that's the income limit for which you have the right to benefit from this relief. There is proportionality, which at some point reaches such a level that it pays to get out of proportionality and to get into lump sums on a general basis. There's only an income limit in the bill, and I was just trying to explain why. Three out of five... It's just a little... 3 years every 5 years, i.e. when it is possible to use this solution. 'Cause I'm gonna do it again: it's a possibility, right. This is not an obligation, precisely because this possibility will have consequences for the pension. People who are entrepreneurs are, by definition, those who accept a higher level of risk than those who are employed on the job, and must also face that risk if they choose to do so. So three out of five. This mechanism, three out of five, is precisely related to the pension security mentioned here by the last of the Members asking. If we had introduced it all the time, without this limitation - you could say five out of five or 100%. - we wouldn't have a guarantee in the bill or in those laws that we could raise for minimum retirement. Incidentally, of course, no one can guarantee that, because there are random accidents: someone may simply not be able to work, to have a disease, and then he will not actually collect it. On the other hand, assuming that such a person will be active, such a person - if there is a limit of 3 years for every 5 years - has a real chance of getting a minimum pension. If we lift that limit, she's not gonna get the chance. Here there is also a comparison with the Germans. As it happens, e.g. in Germany, there is now a discussion on this subject in order to withdraw from this voluntary issue for entrepreneurs. Please also remember that in Germany there is a completely different scale of self-employment, this is just another economy. In turn, in England, which I also know a little bit, is that yes, there are low contributions for entrepreneurs, but this pension, which is entitled to, reminds me of something that should probably be called a pension from the budget, a state pension in Poland. She is at the level of several hundred pounds, which may be attractive for the Pole as an additional pension allowance, especially if she returns to Poland and lives in Poland. But in England, these few hundred pounds really do not allow - let's call it - a worthy life. So please also do not rely on selective solutions that exist somewhere in a completely different context from ours. Like I said... That was the question - these were the questions: Why this limit? Why does this include such a number of entrepreneurs and not another number of entrepreneurs? This is the limit, which on the one hand takes into account the budgetary reality, because also look at the OSR: the annual cost for the budget is around 1300 million, and on the other hand the current solution extends the subject range more than twice if you look at the number of entrepreneurs who can benefit from this solution. There was also a question about why the Minister of Development is authorised to conduct this project. This project wouldn't have been built... Of course in his case was the cooperation of the ZUS, Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and Ministry of Finance. So that's what I'm going to say, of course, and that's what happened. I assure you, this is not some self-righteous idea of the minister responsible for economic affairs. There was also a question about the time of entry into force. I, as the humble Undersecretary of State, can say that the date of entry into force actually depends on you, Members and Senators, right? I don't really have much influence on it, I can't offer anything. more than what we can propose in the submission and then simply wait for the results of the votes, for the results of your decision. And remember, we're not talking about general principles, we're talking about an exception, and we're talking about a positive one, we're talking about a certain advantage, right? So on general terms, this system is not changed here and entrepreneurs know what these general principles look like and will look like next year. On the other hand, the benefit - because for these several hundred thousand people we offer a certain advantage here, they can choose to benefit from it - must always be seen as a kind of privilege, as an exception of some kind. Nor is it true that this solution is offered only to clearing taxpayers on a general basis, because there are also solutions for flat-raters, i.e. flat-rate tax clearing, and also so-called. Cartoons. So that it was just not accurate what happened here. As far as the positive effects for JST are concerned - we know this also on the basis of data from the Ministry of Finance, together these predictions were made - we estimate them based on the projected expansion of the tax base, because CIT and PIT in some percentage also consists of budgets of local government units. Hence the benefit here on their side. I think these are the most important issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u255	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to ask you to welcome the young patient of the Children's Health Center who is visiting us in the Sejm today. [[Applause]] Maya, an extremely brave young lady. Welcome. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on public collective transport (prints Nos 44 and 52). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Public Collective Transport Act, print No 44. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 4 December 2019 the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading. The Infrastructure Commission, following its first reading, considered this draft law at its meeting on 11 December 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt draft Law No 44 without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u257	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Anna Milczanowska will be the first to speak by presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Public Collective Transport Act, print No 44. The Government of Law and Justice has taken up the challenge of tackling the growing phenomenon of communication exclusion, particularly in areas remote from large urban centres. This manifestation of the pathology of social life was decided to combat among others. by means of a reform being carried out. One of its mechanisms is the Act of 16 May 2019 on the Development Fund for public service bus services. This law entered into force on 18 July 2019. Thanks to it, through funding, many local bus lines were restored. Legislative work is currently underway to continue the development of local connections. Pending their completion, there is a need to extend the transitional provisions of the Public Collective Transport Act for another year. This extension of the transitional provisions will allow them to be brought into line with the budgetary provisions for 2020. Failure to make these changes would lead to the adoption of a structure different from that contained in the Budgetary Act of the authorising officers responsible for the financing of the allowances. The provisions which, in the circumstances of the failure to approve this draft law, would apply, apart from the fact that they contain a different system of financing for reliefs, also raise interpretation doubts. Maintaining the current subsidy system will allow for greater control of the resources allocated to this end and will ensure that this task is financed at an appropriate level. At the same time, there is no objective data to assess the consequences of implementing the laws and to ensure that the social expectations laid down in the provisions in question are met if the transitional period of application of the law is not extended. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u259	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored to be able to devote my first speech to a topic that is particularly close to me, that is, collective communication, the more that I speak about the government project, so that I can address directly those who decide the conditions under which Poles and Poles travel. Recently Prime Minister Morawiecki in his exposé said a lot about sustainable transport. The lack of a bus or train near the place of residence for many people means that there is no access to school, hospital or work. This is a problem for about 14 million people excluded by communication. Each new railway or bus line is therefore a restoration of hope and dignity to those who have been deprived of it by short-sighted and irresponsible decisions made in the past. Without efficient collective transport, there will be no social justice. I believe that we can clearly define what we differ in and what we agree on. Our common goal is to create a collective communication that we would all enjoy. So when I heard the Prime Minister's words, I felt that, of course, I would support all the right actions on this matter, whether or not I agree with this government in other areas. The problem is, we don't know much yet. We have heard about modernization and construction of 9,000 km of railway tracks. The question is, why is it this number? I am glad that the Prime Minister has pointed out this problem, and I am counting on the program to not write a finger on the water like the Living+. You did not mention the trams with a word, although you gave a lot of space to cars, as well as controversial Byzantine projects such as the Central Communication Port. In any case, the bill we are discussing today is a continuation of the same inconsistency. Under the pretext of the prepared reform of collective transport, the government postpones the regulation of the system of financing reductions for railway and bus tickets. This amendment was initially intended to enter into force in 2017 and is postponed every year. Ladies and gentlemen, how many more years will we be waiting for these regulations to enter into force? Can we hear a specific date? It is worth noting that the bill is postponed in the Polish Parliament for the fourth time, which in itself should be enough reason for the rulers to be ashamed. It's December 12th, and the government is just starting to discuss what's going to happen in less than three weeks. In such a situation, citizens and citizens may treat the work of the Sejm in a non-serious way, they may not trust that collective communication will work smoothly. Law and Justice have repeatedly shown that there is no idea of how to reform transport. Instead of comprehensive reforms, we get fragmented solutions and attempts to deal with the chaos instantly. In turn, rejecting this proposal would mean an organisational mess in local governments and blocking public transport outside cities, which would be a disaster for passengers and passengers. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, I recommend the Greens to abstain. By the way, I would like to draw attention to the topic of Poznań, i.e. the Poznań Main Railway Station, which for years requires improvement and restoration of its glory. At this point, it is the object of mockery and travesty of the station. Poznań councilman Paweł Sowa wrote to the Prime Minister on this matter. I hope the Prime Minister will respond in a short time. Besides, I wish we had such a small New Year's resolution. From 1 January, let us return to this law and other laws concerning buses or railways and finally start to talk seriously about collective communication. Ladies and gentlemen! Make CollectionCom Great Again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u261	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Paulina Matysiak will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u262	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary left club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the government draft law amending the law on public collective transport. The law on public collective transport, which has been in operation for almost 10 years, has not stopped the collapse of public transport in non-urban areas in Poland. In recent years, the number of bus users outside the cities has been steadily declining and has been reduced by the offer of carriers. This year alone 340 bus connections were suspended or terminated on such lines as: Skępe - Lipno, Łódź - Lutomiersk - Szydłów - Łódź, Chełmno - Świecie. This is just a few examples. The communes, where there is no local communication organised by the local government, live today as many as 14 million people. If someone does not own their own car and there is no active train stop in his town, he is doomed to mercy or disfavor of private bus operators. However, efficient collective transport outside cities is a key factor for sustainable regional development. It allows for the activation of people living in high unemployment areas, gives access to schools that increase opportunities in the labour market, access to medical facilities, places of trade and services, or finally public institutions and culture. A well-connected society is free from barriers, borders and constraints. The lack of good public transport inevitably leads to the exclusion of all non-urban residents without the possibility of using cars, persons with reduced mobility, children and young people, as well as those who are not wealthy. This is the exclusion not only of transport, but also of economic and social. There is no universality of education, health care, culture and economic prosperity if millions of people are deprived of transport to benefit from it. The exclusion of transport limits the possibility of taking up a job, because you have to travel to it often, as well as the possibility of taking advantage of an offer such as cinema, theatre or museum. Even casual encounters with family and friends become a luxury that not everyone can afford. Millions of Poles and Poles are deprived of basic medical care when they cannot reach the clinic or hospital. The suspension of amendments to the Act does not solve any of the chronic problems of public collective transport in Poland, and preserves the current system based, in great simplification, on the operation of transport in a market manner. On the one hand, the complex and non-transparient system of transport financing through relief payments leads to a mismanagement of even the most profitable connections and, on the other hand, to a number of pathologies, such as artificial price increases or the sale of tickets with a 100% discount in order to obtain a higher refund. The organisation of collective transport on the basis of a permit for carriage combined with its financing from the level of marshal offices deprives the counties and municipalities of any impact on the network of connections, frequency of courses or quality of rolling stock. The unclear division and fragmentation of competences between the various levels of government leads to the lack of a broader vision of public transport organisation, the unwillingness to cooperate and, finally, the blurring of responsibility for combating the exclusion of transport in non-urban areas. Unfortunately, neither the transitional provisions on public collective transport laid down for the fourth time today, nor the subsequent draft laws prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure, will solve any of these problems. The superficial and chaotic approach of the governing party to public collective transport leads to an increasing degradation of bus transport in non-urban areas. The cost of this will be borne by millions of inhabitants of cities and villages who, without even a minimum transport offer, will continue to face transport exclusion. The way in which this project is being processed also deserves strong criticism. The draft law, the failure of which could lead to the paralysis of collective transport from 1 January 2020, entered the Sejm only last week - 4 December. If not signed by the President until 31 December, the validity of the New Year will lose all permits for the carriage of passengers in road transport, i.e. really no buses will leave. In less than a month, the project must be approved by the Sejm, the Senate and the President. The procedure is worse, and the late deadline for sending the project is ridiculed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the entire government. However, the Left will vote in favour of this project (The Bell) because it is responsible. We are therefore calling on the government to take seriously the problem of transport exclusion and to prepare changes that improve quality and access to collective transport. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u263	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski will speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u264	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 concerning the draft law on amending the law on public collective transport and certain other laws. The Council of Ministers adopted a draft law amending the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport submitted by the Minister of Infrastructure, which was the subject of the Committee on Infrastructure. The new rules will allow for contracts to be concluded by the end of 2020 for the submission by the Marshals of relief tickets sold by commercial bus operators, for which the current deadline for the payment of payments is applicable until the end of 2019. Until the end of 2020, licences for scheduled bus services carried out by commercial carriers will also be extended. The current deadline expires in 2019. New solutions are to enter into force on 1 January and 1 January we can wake up in a country without public transport, because at the end of the year the permit for the carriage of persons in road transport is no longer valid. Even if you manage to win over time, the problem could be reduced tickets. By the end of the year, we have one session of the Sejm: today and again on December 19 and 20. Members must therefore hurry because the Senate will sit on 17 and 18 December. The bill has a chance to enter into force on 1 January only if the Senate accepts it without amendments and the president signs it quickly. If any of these elements fail, the passengers will have a problem. What will happen after 1 January if we fail to postpone the amendment again? The validity will lose all permits for the carriage of passengers in road transport, so no private bus will leave unless the carrier has previously requested confirmation of the transport declaration. The problem is that no one has submitted such applications so far, because their validity is also related to the above mentioned. the provisions. Regardless of when applications have been submitted, the first day of application is the first day of application of the new rules. Assuming, however, that all these carriers will complete these formalities when it comes to this mode of transport, this closes the way to receiving relief tickets, the only tool by which extra-urban bus services have been financed for many years. If this bill does not enter into force, the reduced tickets will also disappear from commercial express trains and pendolino. The government ensures that the money to finance the reliefs are and have been written down in the draft budget, but at the same time acknowledges that if the bill does not pass, it will not be possible to finance the reliefs in this way. The absence of these provisions would imply the need to adopt a structure different from that contained in the draft budget law for 2020 of the authorising officers responsible for financing the reliefs - we read in the explanatory memorandum. The government points out that the adoption of the law means that 312 million passengers in road transport and 301 million rail passengers, in other words: all those who use buses or railways will continue to benefit from the relief. The government also points out that there will be an extension of the existing legislation by one year until the reform of public collective transport has been completed. However, this is the fourth such deferral. So the question is whether the government that was supposed to support public transport supports this transport or whether it is doing the opposite. Has the idea of assisting local authorities in their efforts to restore local connections proved to be unhappily, or will you again blame local authorities that do not want to benefit from state subsidies because they lack money for their own contributions? It was supposed to be a great success, one of the so-called points. Fridays of Kaczyński, where it was predicted that people deprived of local transport would eventually start Live and move normally. The truth is quite different. Local governments are reluctant to use this fund - this is shown by more calls - because they simply don't have any money. Between 2015 and 2019 many connections were closed in PKS Lubliniec, Hrubieszów, Szczecinek, I could mention this. On the other hand, our club, as a responsible club, who sees the need to support these poorest social groups too, will vote in favour of the draft Print Act No. 44 (The bell) so that the poorest benefit and these subsidies can be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u265	Thank you very much, sir. I kindly inform you that 11 people have joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. As the first... We have time, Marshal. And that's a lot, a lot of time. I try not to take the floor if the question is really substantive. Great! Ms Beata Maciejewska, Leżyewska, will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week, in response to the request of the voters from my district, I submitted a parliamentary interpellation on white spots, which became a particularly important problem in the Pomerania area. The amendment that we are discussing now does not introduce any improvements to the bill requested by local governments. An example of this is the Główczyce in the pole district, where the PKS recently eliminated some of the courses, which caused the inhabitants to have problems with their commuting to the workplace. As local authorities say, subsidies do not encourage carriers to create new connections, as they remain too costly and problematic for them. Moreover, not every municipality or not every county can afford the required own contribution. I would therefore like to ask: If the government had to change the dates for the entry into force of certain provisions of the law anyway, why did it not use this opportunity to introduce amendments that might meet (the Ring) the problems of local governments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u267	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The report by Ryszard Kapuściński describes such a scene: somewhere on the Black Land, the bus leaves only when people gather. This is a very interesting example and its analysis leads to the only possible conclusion. In fact, public transport is about getting people together at a certain point and taking the bus. That's what it's all about. However, you still believe that the most important thing is for the bus to leave. That's not the point. And the local authorities obviously didn't believe you because the money wasn't used. And these five, the last of Kaczyński's five points is a flop. I propose to save this program (the bell) - I will ask for half a minute, your marshal - namely to make a government program in which you give money for innovation in public transport, simply to apply mechanisms known from smart solutions, smart village, smart city, and to find out where it will work. Then, on the basis of these examples, you will be able to, or we will be able to design changes in the organisation of the public transport system someday. The point is that this model just survived and local governments will not give money for it because they know that adding a zloty or 80 gr to the car is absolutely not doing anything. There's still empty air. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u269	Thank you very much, sir. But I would like to point out that we are at a questioning stage. Questions. It wasn't a club appearance. So would the government be polite to consider such a government program? Thank you very much. Another person, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum to this project, the ongoing legislative work on the functioning of public collective transport is being completed. And that's why we're talking about this shift today. Minister! When, then, - and I ask here to indicate a specific month and a specific year - the parliamentarians will be able to familiarize themselves with the solutions prepared? If the Minister is not prepared to answer this question today, I will ask for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u271	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project was submitted by the government on 4 December, less than one month before the planned entry into force of the provisions contained therein. If the bill doesn't come into force by the end of the year, the statutory exemptions for extra-urban bus journeys may simply disappear. I therefore have a question: What is the government going to do if Parliament fails to pass the bill by the end of this year? Let me remind you that we are going to have legislative work on this project in the upper chamber, and then the bill has to go to the president's desk and be signed by him. In the face of such a serious risk of deepening the communication exclusion, has the Ministry of Infrastructure prepared any plan B? Please respond in writing in this regard. I would also like to point out that we are dealing with the fourth delay in the entry into force of very important rules on the organisation and financing of non-urban public transport, the rules that have been adopted, I recall, already 9 years ago. I strongly urge that the Ministry should not deal with such important matters at the very last minute in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the bill must be adopted because it would threaten to paralyze everyone about financing reliefs. Minister, I admire, to be honest, this optimism resulting from the time of the submission of this project, because the bill must be transposed by the Senate, then signed by the President. Let's just say this last stage isn't the problem. Mr. President used to sign basically everything that hits the desk immediately. I have a question about the bus service. Last year, a draft bill was adopted in the previous term of office, which regulates transport subsidies. It's about the bus company. There was a planned amount of PLN 300 million. Question: "How much has it actually been used and why, if it is not 300 million PLN, it has not been used to the full extent?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] Second question: Is the planned amount for 2020 really PLN 800 million? What is the practical demand of local authorities today for these subsidies? What is the amount on the basis of the conclusions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u275	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually have two questions. First: Did the government give notice to local authorities in advance, where it intends to ask for an extension of this task? We all know that local authorities, for example those who serve reliefs, relief fees, have already been preparing for organisational changes in their own offices, to move jobs, to reduce the amounts they have spent on this task. When did the local authorities learn that the state would have to continue to carry out these tasks through the local government? The second issue concerns the amount allocated to the local government to handle this task. Everyone who worked in the local government knows that tasks, not only those tasks, but many others, have always absorbed more resources than were allocated from the government's budget, by the government. Would the State, in order to compensate for this continuous extension, want to allocate more money to the local government to serve these tasks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that local collective transport is the responsibility of the local government. The Municipal Government Act, whether you like it or not, in art. Paragraph 7 Point 4 clearly states this. Minister! You said yesterday at the committee meeting that about 1,700 applications were received from local government units. These units responded about this fund that the Law and Justice Government has proposed. I would like to hear in cars kilometers how many kilometers we will be together with local governments in 2020 and how much we have over 4 months, maybe 3 months 2019, because the year is not over yet. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u279	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When you listen to such discussions, these lamentations, how very bad it is with public communication in Poland in rural areas... It's very bad. ...and in general that Poles are cut off from the world, etc., it constantly raises a question about the origins of this state of affairs: What is the cause of this state of affairs? I think you remember how the public transport problem was solved. There were, as I recall, about 170 state-owned communication companies, so-called. P.S.S.s. I said, what happened to them? In what years have they been destroyed, privatized? I have my experience in Lublin Voivodeship. The case was finally diagnosed by the D.A.'s office, because the state on the head, you privatized the P.C.S., because everything private was supposed to be better. In such a situation, please: reflect (the bell) above all on your behaviour. And the question? Question...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u281	No, thank you, thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. But indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a questioning stage. Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs Masłowska! I want to tell you that I intervened where the PiS government was, i.e. In Dębica, so that PKS wouldn't be privatized. So? And they didn't want him. Write to them and resent them. [[Applause]] Hello, hello, Mrs... And now for the ultimatum. Ladies and gentlemen, this time is an ultimatum of Minister for all Poles. First of all, for local governments. Low subsidies to the Payment Fund, the deadline for which we are talking, relief tickets subsidies and permits for carriers. Why do you give such an ultimatum to entrepreneurs and local governments? What do you suggest? Low funds for public transport subsidies, low subsidies, small contracts for hospitals - you suspend everything on the local government. Why? Why are we so late in this process? Just one more local thing. I will speak not of the matter that is with the Minister, that is, the course of the S19 road, but of the station program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A friend from Poznań talked about it, so did I. When do we get a revised, annexed station program? I'm talking about the Mielec station. You're from Podkarpacie. I think you're gonna be as close to this case as you are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government talks a lot about dignity and quality of life. I would like to say that dignity and quality of life are e.g. then, when the senior can go to the clinic alone and not wait half a day under the doctor's office, because the call that way is now at dawn. Dignity is when a child can come home from school without waiting 3 hours for the only bus that goes there. Dignity is also when you can just go to a cinema to a big resort regardless of how old you are and how rich your wallet is. Today we're investigating a collective transport bill that doesn't fix anything. We've heard a lot about rail infrastructure investments before. Unfortunately, we do not know anything about how to improve the quality and frequency of public transport connections, whether by rail or by bus. I would like to strengthen the voice of Mrs Matysiak and Mr Sterczewski, hence my questions. Does the Ministry of Infrastructure intend to develop a comprehensive and long-term recovery plan for collective transport? Do the possible plans include an increase in the number and frequency of connections? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, is the Ministry planning to prepare these plans by carrying out a wide public consultation involving representatives of citizens and local governments? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u285	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, parliamentary club PSL - Kukiz15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With great respect I refer to local governments, entrepreneurs-transporters and other entrepreneurs, as well as to all those who use collective transport. I would like to ask why the next task, which is carried out with enormous risks, is being imposed on local governments. Does the State, by guaranteeing the funds that are in the budget, for the financing of commuting allowances, count on the risk that at the time when we do not have time to transpose this bill, this fourth shift... Do you really people who commute for minimum wages often 100 km and more, go to the authorities and get help there? I'd also like to ask you a second question. What is the real demand from local governments for funding in terms of reliefs for commuters, e.g. To work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u287	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u288	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Thank you so much for the discussion. I would divide it into two parts: a discussion that is strictly related to the project and to our important and, I admit, an urgent and quick proposal, which is to continue to compensate for the relief in bus transport, in collective transport. I don't think our proposal is very risky about not taking it this year. During the process in the Sejm, not a single amendment was tabled, which means that we will probably vote on it in the evening voting block. The project goes to the Senate. There's a two-day Senate meeting next week. If there are no comments to the draft itself, then the President will have a dozen days to sign it. Then these rules will be able to enter into force on 1 January next year and the relief will continue without any complications. It is important that passengers are aware that they can use them. Let me remind you that this is a large group of passengers: students, children, disabled people, very often older people. The carriers will also be sure that they will receive compensation for their benefits. I am very pleased that there is no dispute between us in this matter. Once again - I am convinced that, like us, the Sejm, also the Senate will show great responsibility and will not intentionally prolong the legislative process. On the other hand, a much broader issue is an interesting discussion on the fight against communication exclusion, the situation in collective communication and how the elimination of bus connections has been progressing over the last decades. Discussion about how residents, especially villages and smaller towns, lost access to collective communication. It's okay here, too. This fact has been identified by all parliamentary clubs. The question is different. What has been done about this difficult subject in nearly three decades? How have previous governments - all policy options - fought the exclusion of communication? Have they made any attempt to ensure that collective communication is not abolished so that bus lines in these smaller towns are not liquidated? I have not heard such voices here, I have not heard of these actions, which have been taken by your political formations in the last 30 years, because there have really been no real steps in this matter. What have we been doing as Law and Justice for some time? National road construction programme, PLN 142 billion, perspective by 2025 We want to complete the motorway program in the next 6 years, that is to build all the missing sections of motorways in Poland, and this program will finish by 2025. By 2030, on the other hand, we want to complete the main base, the main network of high-speed roads in the standard of expressway. At the moment, we are the fifth country of the European Union in terms of the length of the road network, more than 4 000. It's a kilometer. Another $1,000. is in the implementation phase - either design, or already in the construction phase, and another nearly 1 000. is in the preparation phase of the documentation. 2030 is the time when Poland will be covered by nearly 6 thousand. High-speed roads. This is also a real fight against communication exclusion. This is above all also a concern for safety. And although our roads, Polish roads are still dangerous, there are still too many accidents on them, it must be clearly stated that the number of accidents per year is decreasing, that the number of accidents per year is decreasing. The number of wounded is also decreasing and this is due to the fact that road infrastructure is improving. Secondly, the Self-Government Road Fund, which is a historically high tool for supporting road, municipal and district investments. In 2019 it is PLN 6 billion allocated to local governments for these investments, in 2020, PLN 3200 million for investments in improving the quality of local roads. And in the perspective of 10 years, between 2019 and 2028, it is 36 billion PLN of government resources to support modernisation, reconstruction, but also the construction of new communication routes at the level of municipalities and powiats. This is the tool that was created last year by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It began to function in such a formula in 2019 and we already have the first visible effects, and over time, as a result of this programme, there will be more. I'm reminding you of the problem we're dealing with. The 2015 Supreme Audit Chamber report indicated that 32% of municipal and district roads in Poland are unsatisfactory and 36% He's in a bad state. So that over 70% municipal and district roads at that time in Poland, can be said, using a large thought shortcut, were not suitable for safe use. We want to change this quite quickly, therefore there is very concrete and measurable support for local authorities in this area. Thirdly, the Bus Development Fund, another new tool created by the Government of Law and Justice. A tool that has been in operation since September this year, which is just over 3 months. It's close to 1,500 bus lines that were either re-created or re-established on the basis of this fund. November 29th this year the call for 2020 has ended. The proposals from local governments are already more than 256 applications across the country, more than 1711 bus lines, which will be covered by this financial support. So that this is a bright and powerful proof that we have only just begun the fight against communication exclusion, and it will be a process that will last years. We estimate that nearly 0.5 billion km of bus connections disappeared in Poland between 1990 and 2018, so that we can see the speed at which the bus connections were closed. We will not make this 0.5 billion return immediately and there will be more of these connections, but we can make it a process that will continue, but will be carried out jointly, in cooperation with local authorities. Why in cooperation with local government? Because we believe that local government officials know better than we do here in Warsaw, what lines to play, what connections to finance. I know that many of them, many of the local authorities, also use social organisations, groups of people who ask for it. We transfer funds, up to 1 PLN to a car km, and of course we have provided the legal basis for this. Here, cooperation between government and government is necessary and desirable. I don't see any logic in the part of your speech. Some of you believe that we use self-government, and the other part that we do not see self-government. And I find our cooperation balanced. We offer opportunities, we give the legal basis, we give the funds, but on the other hand we expect activity and discernment of social needs in terms of bus playback. Better, in our opinion, that can't be done. We are only at the beginning of the process of restoring bus connections in the formula of the bus transport development fund and I very much hope that this process will proceed, that the played bus connections in smaller towns will be much more in Polish villages. The funds are, the legal basis is, just the involvement of local governments. Of course, there are problems that we will not solve quickly. Bus drivers are missing, transport companies are struggling with this problem. We also know and see that there is a problem with rolling stock, the quality of rolling stock, which is also very much needed to ensure the right standard for collective transport. I hope that, in the latter situation, we will also create a programme that will allow funds to be raised for those carriers who want to bet on a modern, greener and less costly bus rolling stock. But this is also another action that I hope will be implemented in the near future by the Government of Law and Justice. As far as rail is concerned, the rail modernisation programme is also progressing. If my memory is correct, it is PLN 70 billion for the modernisation of the railway network, making the Polish railroad faster to increase speed on railway lines. Mr Andrzej Bittel is directly responsible for this plot, and he could say more about it. I think he did it this morning at one of the points - just another bill created by the Ministry of Infrastructure is being processed in the Seym. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for these voices, which have been very serious voices here, did not focus on the attack on the Government of Law and Justice, but actually showed the problems that Poland has been facing in recent decades, I stress this word when it comes to collective communication, collective transport. I hope that we will put in place further tools and further legal and financial solutions, together in this term of office, in order to improve this issue. On the other hand, as regards the comprehensive amendment of the law on collective transport, this law is prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure. It was directed to the work of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers in the middle of this year, but due to discounting - after all, we had elections - the work on this law was stopped. We as the Ministry are ready to continue this work. I am convinced that this will happen in 2020. Thank you very much for the discussion. I hope that this bill will be adopted today by the High House, next week by the Senate, and that the President will sign it in the sense of responsibility, so that compensation for relief tickets can also be paid from 1 January 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u289	Thank you very much, Minister. As rapporteur for the committee, Mrs Anna Milczanowska... No, she won't. Good. In that case, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the urgent government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 (Prints No 56 and 60). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today, work has been carried out in connection with the urgent act notified by the Prime Minister, by the Government, concerning the amendment of the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. It affects several very important points on the financing of very important public life spheres. And so, there is a proposal to transfer funds related to the Police modernisation programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Protection Service between 2017 and 2020, in the amount of over PLN 103 million, the time shift to 30 April next year, and two further aspects also consisting in the transfer of funds available: funds for the purchase of ambulances, i.e. over PLN 20 million, and expenditure related to health protection, funds spent by MSWiA in the amount of PLN 14 million, also up to 30 April next year. And a very important, fundamental case concerning the new special-purpose reserve of PLN 3 billion, broken down by: PLN 2 billion for the National Health Fund, which increases the reserve fund, and he is to finance health benefits, and a fund of PLN 1 billion for police support. During the committee's work and the examination of the points put forward by the government's proposal, there were no special disputes as to the validity of the proposal, but it was about some detail. Of course, there is always a choice here as to how detailed the information needs to be presented, and there is a question of the response of the relevant representatives of the government: whether the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. But we have come to an agreement by making all these aspects of specific information available to stakeholders. However, the conclusion was that the committee accepted this without amendment. Only the legislative amendments that were made were accepted, and this new printing is with those amendments which already fill the whole scope of the legislative amendments. And that, Your Marshal, is all about the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u291	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, the position will be presented by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u292	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 after its first reading was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance. No amendments were tabled today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, except for the comments of the Legislative Bureau. The discussion reiterated the questions that were raised during the first reading, despite the comprehensive answers of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health and the representatives of the Ministry of Interior and Administration at the first reading in the sitting room. It seems that the point is not to supplement the bill under discussion or to introduce better solutions. Such proposals were not made. However, in such a repeated discussion, in order to give the impression that the expenditure rule is being violated, the law is being violated, the debt of hospitals is growing, and whether the money from the NFZ will be used to extend hospitals, etc. They do not help explain that the money from the National Health Fund cannot be used to extend hospitals because it is not the task of the National Health Fund. They do not help explaining that in 2017 by PLN 1 billion the funds for the NFZ were increased to repay over-executions which the PO-PSL government did not settle in relation to hospitals. They do not help explaining that in 2018 spending on NFZ was increased by more than 1800 million PLN, thus reducing many queues to highly specialised services. At this point, we hear: What will the money be used for? Because in fact, shortening the queues of people waiting for cataract surgery or endoprosthesis is irrelevant, while not so long ago it was made the main point, as on the banners of the fight against law and justice, as is neglected by health care. Now we hear that it doesn't really matter anymore. There were also allegations that the changes to the financial plan would not be assessed by the finance committee or outside the parliament, which, of course, is not true either because they are assessed by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health and in the latter case, as regards the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, by the relevant committee. So, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the discussion has gone completely out of line with the law, and we, Members of the Law and Justice, believe that increasing the budget for the NFZ to improve health services to PLN 2 billion, as well as to PLN 1 billion for the Police Fund, to improve the safety of Poles is absolutely justified and we support this project, as I put it at first reading. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u293	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Izabel Leszczyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I understand that the Member who represents the PiS Club can say anything she wants to say from this speaker. That's usually the way it is. He can talk about hospital debt, although we all know he's avalanchely growing now and there's no comparison at all with the debt of our eight years. But the fact that Mr Siwier, the rapporteur, comes out and says things that haven't happened means that he doesn't understand what the committee report is all about. You said the dispute was about detailed solutions. And do you know what you said from that podium? Mr President, the dispute was about the foundation, about the security of public finances. Let me repeat: this bill is not about any money for you, Minister of Health, nor for you, Minister of mustache, to the police. We don't know if you're ever gonna get it. This bill is about one thing: the PiS can no longer spend any more money from the budget, because it has exceeded the limit of many billions that the Public Finance Act imposes on it by way of a rule. You already had to introduce the Solidarity Fund, bring out 9 billion, earlier 4 billion. In this bill, you have to get 3 billion out of budget spending, or the government would commit a crime. And that's what we talked about. Not about the detail of the financial plan. You're taking out the public finance fuse. You are dismantleing the rule that the Civic Platform and PSL government introduced so that the government does not spend more money than it is safe for citizens. Poland, I'll tell you again, it doesn't take one or two terms. Poland is to last for years. I mean, you guys are... You can't leave your citizens to the limits of public finances being impossible at a time when there's a summer in the economy all over the world. The 14 countries of the European Union had a budget surplus last year and most of the EU countries had a balanced budget. What about your government? All the more reason for you guys to... And you've been walking for weeks. or even months, you're talking some bullshit about a balanced budget, and there's no 2020 budget at all. There is no budget, because you are looking for 5 billion zlotys and you no longer know who to add what tax, to introduce these 5 billion into the budget somehow, or to take it away, because it's not really what it is anymore. That's your balanced budget. Even though you wanted to balance it with one-off income, introducing long-term, fixed, rigid expenses. That was supposed to be your balanced budget, and it didn't even work out for you either. And you have a huge problem from 2019. If the Minister of Health didn't know he was getting 2 billion zlotys last night, what does that mean? It means that the finance minister sent a letter to the resorts: Don't spend it, because it's no longer allowed, because we'll all be in front of the State Court. And all the ministers in the resorts are cutting their expenses now. And it'll be like every year. At the beginning of the year, Prime Minister Morawiecki comes and says that there is a great budget - investment, we have plenty of money for investments. At the end of the year he comes and says: Great budget. Deficit's smaller than it was supposed to be. Why? Well, we didn't do 80%. investment, so we didn't have to spend money. That's your public finance management. At a time when the economy in the world is spinning, when tax revenues are high, because people are working because companies are developing because there is a high consumption, also through 500+, you have sucked this budget to the limits of impossible. You haven't left anything for the skinny years. And yet the economic cycle, Minister, is a phenomenon, and no one will say otherwise this time. And that is why we introduced this rule, and every day you (the bell) are wondering how to dismantle it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u295	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, it is hard not to feel that we are dealing with a series called "The Bible. " Budgetary prosperity or a balanced budget. Unfortunately, most of the Seym has been funding us this show for a few weeks. What else do you call it? The election campaign was coming up - the budget was balanced, everything was fine. After the election, the budget was no longer balanced, because what did the previous session of the Sejm bring? There are three approaches to obtaining additional budgetary resources. Two successful ones, one thanks to Prime Minister Gowin, failed. Today we have a follow-up to this show. It's Christmas, so a couple of professional groups could use a Christmas tree. A few Members, a few ministers, send something good to you at the end of the year. To show that it's okay again, we have the resources. This is not a responsible fiscal policy, a responsible budgetary policy of the state, ladies and gentlemen ministers, High Izbo. And this is the first observation, which today in the debate on this urgent law amending the budget must be said to one another in this Chamber. We, as the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party together with Kukiz15, would like a predictable budgetary policy. It's consistent, not something you're serving us today. But we have a project. We will, of course, not object to ad hoc, but to support a number of important social or public areas. On the other hand, we will be consistent, because not more than two weeks ago there was a debate on the increase of excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol, and then you said that just about PLN 2 billion of this excise duty would improve the health of Poles. As we have tabled an amendment to make it a specific goal, because in general it can be said that we will improve the health of Poles, but as we said: "National programme for the fight against cancer," Minister Szumowski went out and said: I do not want these 2 billion PLN, I do not need them. It was a specific event that the Minister of Health does not want money for a specific purpose when it comes to health policy. Today, these 2 billion zlotys are coming back. The Minister didn't want to at the time, but I think after two weeks he wants to do it again. You must learn, sir, to learn. Because now again we have 2 billion zlotys on the table to support a backup fund at the National Health Fund. My club... We would like to be consistent, ministers, so today we reiterate our amendment to this law, the proposal that these 2 billion zlotys, which today supposedly appear to support the health care system... They're not gonna make any difference in service. Let us not be enchanted that 2 billion PLN will change anything when it comes to services, because the hospital itself in Grudziądz is indebted to 0.5 billion PLN. Minister, I don't know if you know. So what's the $2 billion coming? Do you know why? But what we just mentioned is the national programme for the fight against cancer, which you have created, the state, it seems, you have created this program... But very well, Minister, I'm not accusing you, I'm not saying it in the form of an outrage. He would be able to make real use of this 2 billion PLN. They mean anything by this fund, and therefore I will allow myself to make an amendment to the contested law, so that it is precisely the 2 billion zlotys that are spoken of in a very general way and which are most likely to die in the sea in health policy, to be used for a specific purpose. We all know what a plague cancer is today in Poland. We have a problem dealing with this phenomenon. I think that the National Fund for the Prevention of Cancer, supported by this amount, will be able to take further initiatives that will inhibit the plague of cancer diseases, which are increasingly severe. Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm putting this amendment on your hand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u297	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I kindly inform you that four people have joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for the question: 1 minute. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question. There isn't. I can't see. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, club PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u298	Dear Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The safety of Poles, Poles and people living in our country is paramount. In this area of life cannot be spared, although it is a very demanding area financially and in principle using any financial means that arise at a given point in time to be used. I also understand that this is a form of appreciation for those people who do their work not only during working hours but also after it, and often carry out their work also as a mission. I'm talking about police officers, the Border Guard, the Fire Department, the SOP, and many other competitions that are involved. Given the reasonableness of the expenditure, I hope that these funds which are now appearing in the budget, in a sudden and unpredictable way, will be spent rationally, wisely and not simply. I wanted to suggest that, in the future, we try to anticipate at the end of each financial year, for which such funds will be spent when they appear. On the other hand, I would like to ask: What exactly is this money going to be spent on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like a written reply, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u299	Thank you, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u300	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is about very important goals, because you have to equip all the services, you have to look for the money, but you also have to drive slower, just like everyone else does. There isn't a month that we don't find out about any further collisions, break down any more cars, both the State Security Services and the police. Those cars drive as they please. We see it, and we often witness events on the roads. But my question is a different matter. When will the government find money for these poorest local governments? You were talking about the government getting paid for their school job. 26 billion... Self-governments are performing for 100,000, they get 12, 13 and 15 thousand. This is about the poorest local governments, they need to be supported, because they are already at the limit of endurance (the bell), and what you are proposing is important, but not most importantly. Thank you very much. The most important thing is health and safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u302	From the representative's side PSL has repeatedly stated here that you were so generously planning to allocate additional measures that were affected by the increase in excise duty, specifically the protection of health and the fight against certain diseases or the prevention of them. I have a question, Minister: Is this kind of practice allowed? Is it not contrary to the excise duty law? 'Cause I don't think excise revenue can be used to just mark and allocate it to specific purposes. This is not in accordance with the rules of procedure for the budget law. I think that this is something you need to know before you begin to appear on this issue many times, Mr Paszyk. Besides, we are now increasing the resources from the state budget just to protect health, so how can we be accused of not taking care of health care? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ignore the fact that, compared to you, we have increased our health funds by 25% to PLN 100 billion in total. Over, over 100. These cassandra visions of the Member of the Civic Platform on state finances are an expression of... Thank you. But now we are asking questions... It's already time. ...only and simply not being able to defend your own conduct.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u303	We ask questions, Member. Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be answered first by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance by Minister Tomasz Robaczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Three short answers. In the first case, it's not really about the answer, I just want to make a point. Once again, there is a claim that the government that the Minister of Finance has exceeded the limit set by the spending rule. Well, he didn't, and if he did, of course, it would be a breach of the budget law and a violation of the law. It is no longer possible to spend any more money from the budget, as budget expenditure is being implemented and will be implemented until the end of December, as every year. The funds which this law is transferred or whose transfer to the National Health Fund and the Police Support Fund is being designed are also budgetary expenditure, and this is therefore in contradiction with what came out of that speaker. If we could not spend any more money, there would necessarily be no bill, which provides for expenditure of PLN 3 billion. Although these are, of course, expenses, as I said, potential. It was also said here that we should try to predict whether any expenses would not be made so that they could be spent on something else. This bill is exactly the kind of prediction. That is, it was usually the case that expenditure simply expired at the end of the financial year and could no longer be implemented or used for other purposes. This law, where there are savings in the budget, will be able to redirect this year's appropriations to the objectives indicated in the act. The last point is that tax resources are earmarked for specific purposes. As you have said, this is contrary to the principle set out in the Public Finance Act and generally contrary to budgetary principles, according to which taxes of these expenditure are not financed by name. These measures are generally revenue from the State budget and are then redistributed in accordance with the expenditure plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u305	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else on behalf of the government? I can't see. Thank you. Will the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, want to address the questions raised? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will briefly address a few comments that have been made. The Minister has already responded. During the process on such a significant change - because it is the specific money in the fund, but also the transfer of funds to be spent by April - there was probably no dispute. You can see from this discussion that there was no dispute. We agree that these funds should be spent. If, for example, The ambulances are being bought, and a few more voivodships haven't bought them, so let them buy the ambulances. That's the obvious thing. Rather, the issue is focused on those 3 billion, which are, as the Minister said, an alleged fund. There was a discussion on that background. Here you can see that we do not really have an element of proceding in spe, but a political evaluation - that the budget is collapsing, there is no money, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, these are concrete measures. Let me remind you that we hear there are shortcomings in the health fund. If the government proposes PLN 2 billion for health benefits, this is probably a good course of action and should be absolutely supported by all without any discussion. On the other hand, as for the budget, I believe that the Minister of Finance will present the 2020 budget in a moment. Then there will be a political discussion about what priorities we choose. On the other hand, I believe that as a finance committee, we should only proceed on request. The highest may be comments, and these have been reported, e.g. on the detail of matters relating to the elements of specific records. Of course, that's inquisitive. Members themselves, it may exist, but only the response to these detailed provisions will, I hope, be given by the government. One last remark. This has already been said by Mrs Masłowska and the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, if anybody has a specific purpose, it is necessary to create a special fund, but this is a different procedure. On the other hand, budgeting has to do with the fact that there is a revenue, revenue and expenditure page. It's obvious. The Public Finance Commission should see this. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u307	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, also volunteered to answer questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also answer your question about the expenditure from the Police Support Fund. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4f of the Police Act, these funds are intended for three tasks. The first task is to cover investment, modernisation or renovation expenses and the maintenance and operation of police offices, as well as the purchase of necessary goods and services for them. The second task is to compensate police officers for the time of service exceeding the standard laid down in the Act. Third - awards for policemen's achievements in the service. For this purpose, for these specific purposes, the amount of PLN 1 billion will go. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 18, when we get to the voting block. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 54 hrs. 18 min 33]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. To the minutes of the first meeting of the Sejm, the President of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Green Mr Boris Budka, tabled an amendment. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the adoption or rejection of the amendment shall be decided by a majority without discussion. In the amendment, the applicant proposes supplementing the minutes of the 1st meeting on the 20th agenda concerning the election of the members of the National Judicial Council, with the words spoken by the Deputy Head of the Sejm Chancellery, addressed to the Marshals of the Sejm and relating to the voting procedure. The amendment tabled was presented and discussed at the meetings of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention today. We'll proceed with the vote. We're voting. We're still working on the cards, so hurry up with the cards. You're welcome. Just a minute. I'm sorry, but the card's still being made. I have been waiting for Mr Charzasty, and I will wait for another Member. Ladies and gentlemen, wait a minute. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the amendment to the minutes of the first sitting of the Sejm would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. It was 196, 228--no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Sejm rejected the amendment. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the excise duty law and the Customs Law. The Sejm decided to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. An amendment was tabled in the discussion. The text of the amendment tabled has been delivered to the Members. We therefore proceed to the third reading. I will put the amendment to the vote first and then the whole draft law. In the amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 434 was for, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting a bill amending the Act amending the Act on excise duty and the Customs Law in print No 51, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 430 was in favour, no one was against, 1 member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law. We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax. In the discussion, requests were made: to join the second reading of the bill immediately and to refer the bill to the Public Finance Commission. I will put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting an application for the immediate entry into the second reading of the draft Print Act No 40, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 285 was for, 149 against, no one held back. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the bill? Yes. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Hennig-Kloska. One minute, Member. One minute? How much do you need? Three minutes, Member? Three minutes. Okay, three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Suspension of collection of this tax is absolutely reasonable, but not for six months. This tax should actually disappear from the tax system at all. It's not just in the shops that the yeast of life will become a symbol of your government. The so-called trade tax, like all other sectoral taxes, will actually translate into the prices of the goods we buy in shops. [[Applause]] It will be paid by consumers in the end. Not any commercial institution, not any international concern, but Poles, buying every day, shopping in shops. That's not the only problem. We're gonna be suffering for the next 12 months. What's waiting for us? First of all, the increase in electricity prices. It is estimated that in the case of households - plus 10% , and in the case of companies, between 20% and 40%. We're going to have an increase in fuel prices because the government is raising the fuel charge. This will also translate into an increase in production costs, and ultimately into an increase in the prices of goods in shops. We also have a rent increase in housing cooperatives. Cooperatives have already announced this because they must bear the costs of raising the minimum wage. It's all raises. We have a rise in the export of impurities due to the tightening of waste segregation and disposal conditions. We also have an increase in taxes in local governments, because the government took the revenue from local governments and did not take away their tasks. That's not enough. He's done his homework. As a result, local taxes will increase because local governments have to deal with the tasks that the government imposes on them. So there's gonna be more parking fees in the city center or real estate taxes. All this will make the lives of Poles simply more expensive next year. The entry into force of this tax will also translate in the middle of the year into the prices of goods in shops and will by no means change any consumer preferences of our citizens. We wanted to talk about it in the Public Finance Committee, but you don't have the guts. All you have the courage to do is tax Poles. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u311	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Paulina for president. We proceed to the third reading of the bill. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska joined the question before voting on the entire draft law. No, not anymore. That's enough. No? Okay, thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 40 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 429 was in favour, no one was against, no one stopped 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Retail Tax Act. Everyone's screaming and everybody's voting. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The additional committee report shall be in print No 55-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zbigniew Babalski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Rules of Procedure Committee, I present an additional report on the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, prints No. 42 and 55. High Seym! During the second reading, the Civic Coalition submitted three amendments and a request was made to reject the draft resolution in its entirety. The Commission did not consider the motion to reject the draft resolution in full because of the opinion of the Legislative Bureau that the application had been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, it has examined the three amendments tabled and recommends that the High House reject them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u313	Thank you, sir. The Commission proposes that a draft resolution be adopted in print No 55. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft resolution containing amendments to the resolution of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In the first amendment to Article. 31b applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Urbaniak joined the question. You're welcome, sir. One minute. Marshal, I didn't hear you. One minute? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to have a procedure on how to choose seven of the nine members of the State Election Commission. All these provisions tell us how to get to the point when these seven Sejm bureaus will vote. And that's in the mouth. 8, when the Bureau of the Sejm presents the seven candidates to be indicated, we are talking about the fact that the appointment of the members of the State Election Commission takes place together, i.e. we have a project here that we will be in the Sejm together, proportionally, in agreement, to determine what it will be for seven people. But then in the proposal you added: unless the Sejm decides otherwise. And we in our previous term of office know what that means: unless the Sejm decides otherwise. [[Applause]] Therefore, in our amendment, we demand that, when the Sejm decides otherwise, it decides by a majority of 2/3 of votes, and not only with your voices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u315	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. It was 196, 232 against, 7 abstentions. I'm against it. I was right again. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 31c applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak joined the question. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u316	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear PiS! You just failed your credibility test. [[Applause]] And you guys really didn't pass. Bravo! You cannot believe that you have any good intentions in choosing the members of the State Election Commission in the next amendment, because you introduce the principle that a member of the State Election Commission can be dismissed. We want, if you allow such a thing in the bill, that actually the reasons for the appeal are very important. And you write that, for whatever reason, a member of the State Election Commission can be dismissed, that the Sejm may apply for an appeal. The Sejm, who is most interested in who sits on the State Election Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u317	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 203 was for, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 31c applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that this part of the room is afraid of cases like Marian Banas, which you can't dismiss, even though he compromises his office with allegations that are commonly formulated. We proposed in the amendment that Mr Urbaniak was talking about so that a member of the State Election Commission could not be dismissed for any reason. We want such an appeal to take place when he is legally convicted of a crime against elections and referendums, for abuse in the course of elections, for interference with elections, for unlawful influence, for electoral bribery or for breach of the secrecy of voting. The point is that it is not that the members of the PCA will be fully subject to the parliamentary majority, and when you wish, you will be able to appeal this person from day to day by asking the President to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u319	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 204 was for, 229 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. The question was put before the vote on the whole by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute, sir. Bravo, you!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment to the Rules of Procedure is the implementation of amendments to the 2018 electoral code. To date, members of the State Election Commission have been designated by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Constitutional Tribunal. It was called. the judicial model. We had the guarantee of independence and independence of the members of the State Election Commission. You guys change that. On nine members of the State Election Commission of the Sejm, which is the most interested body, he will choose as many as seven. It's not just a constitutional violation, Art. 2 saying that the Republic of Poland is a democratic state of law. This is a violation of one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of European civilization, Latin civilization: you must not be a judge on your own behalf. Seriously, don't go east. There's no civilization there. Our civilization is in the west. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u321	Thank you, sir. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 55, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 232 was in favor, against - 180, 23 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We would like to return to the review of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on a draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance and the Act on National Tax Administration. The additional committee report shall be in print No 54-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading 13 amendments were tabled to the Act amending the Act on Social Security and the Act on National Tax Administration, so-called. Small ZUS bill. The committee considered all the amendments and gave a negative opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u323	Thank you, sir. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 54. The committees present in the additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 12 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Social Security Act. In the first amendment, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 6. This amendment is combined with the 2nd amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question was raised by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u324	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS government has repeatedly talked about supporting young people, about creating the right opportunities for development, for work, for creating their own business. I ask you to support the amendment, our amendment, whereby young entrepreneurs, up to the age of 25, will be exempt from the need to pay contributions to the Social Security Office and the NFZ. As a result, someone who starts his studies for 5 years - according to current regulations - will not have to pay almost 50,000 to the state. zł, and this money will be able to use for the development of its own business. I will also justify that in this group - young people up to 25 years of age - only 35 out of 100 are active. So if most of them today do not pay taxes, if they are exempt from tax in the future and they are active, then it will only be something positive for our economy and something positive for young people who will be able to implement their innovative, modern ideas and not worry about whether they will have enough to pay contributions to the Social Security Office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u325	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 200 was in favor, 229 against, holding down five. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 18 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 8. The committees are filing for rejection. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u326	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Little ZUS+ was supposed to be a great salvation for entrepreneurs. Meanwhile, 900,000. out of 1.2 million entrepreneurs will be excluded from this programme. 75% entrepreneurs will not have a lower ZUS, but from next year will pay a premium on ZUS and NFZ - almost PLN 1500. If this is to be the case for reducing and improving the functioning of the business, we should not agree to this. We propose in our amendment that the basis for the calculation of contributions to the Social Security Office should be the minimum wage. So next year 2,600, not over 3,200, which is 60%. the average salary. In this way, next year entrepreneurs will pay almost PLN 200 less contributions to ZUS and NFZ regardless of their income, whether they are large entrepreneurs or not. And this is real help for entrepreneurs. That's the way out. Against their expectations. Unfortunately, your proposal is limited only to 25% of entrepreneurs. And let's make it for everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u327	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members took part in the vote. 206 was for, 230 against, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 18c. This amendment is combined with the 12th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 5 to 11. Ms Agnieszka Chat, PSL - Kukiz15, came to the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment deals with the abolition of the wrong limit, excluding a large proportion of small businesses with no income of up to 6 000. It's an amendment that abolishes the limit of 120 grand. income. Prime Minister, is it fair that the lady who runs the neighborhood store to make $2.5,000? zł, must turn the product worth about 20,000. Evil? And this amendment also allows her to benefit from this relief. Isn't it better and fairer to approach, apply a profit criterion? Because income is what people get from their job, not income. Those who produce something are excluded, and the worst is excluded, Polish, small trade, which has already received many times for its own and has never been supported by Poland or the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u329	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 84 was for, against - 229, 121 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 18c applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. One, two, three, four. Amendments 9 and 11 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 6 to 8 and 10. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation, joined the question. You're welcome. One minute, sir. There was a sixth amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The common ZUS is a serial killer of Polish entrepreneurship. Oh, my gosh. The State, when implementing this law, wants to relieve entrepreneurs, but the income criterion is one of the biggest discriminations this House has ever seen. What's the difference between a seamstress who can't afford to pay a horrendous ZUS, the owner of a grocery store whose income is often less than a seamstress? Nothing. Your income criterion has nothing to do with whether an entrepreneur can afford to pay this ZUS, what this entrepreneur earns. The revenue criterion determines only the industry in which the trader operates: whether it is the service industry, whether it is the commercial sector, whether it is the production industry. Therefore, in order to be honest with all the small entrepreneurs who are killed by this horrendous ZUS, we propose to eliminate (the bell) the income criterion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And it's gonna be okay. Nothing's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u331	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u332	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It was supposed to be a universal system, and it really came out a system that excluded both tailors and small shops. But my question will be directed the other way. Does the government intend to launch a good, solid information campaign that will alert entrepreneurs to the negative issues of this law? Will you tell entrepreneurs in this information campaign that using a small ZUS, only 9 working hard 30 days will be included in the retirement pension? Will you make the entrepreneurs aware that after using the small Social Security Office they will not be entitled to unemployment benefits? And finally, are you going to tell the entrepreneurs that if they use the little ZUS, they're just going to have lower pensions? [[Applause]] If someone can't read the bill, that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u333	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 5, 9 and 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Fifty for, against - 273, 113 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 18c applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are filing for rejection. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 7, 8 and 10. Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition, came to the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u334	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government has promised entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, that they will be relieved when the economic downturn is approaching and when the burdens for the Social Security Office are among the most severe financial danin. Unfortunately, the government's proposal to this House is deeply disappointing. This proposal, instead of being addressed to almost 2.5 million small and medium-sized enterprises, has a chance to cover only 300 000. I have a question for the Minister and the Prime Minister, who made such far-reaching promises: Why are you so unambitious? Why aren't you fulfilling your promises again? Why are you unable to support the amendment that provides for extending the charity of this law to all small companies with a revenue of PLN 0.5 million per year? This would mean, while maintaining financial discipline, that a large number of enterprises (the Bell) will be covered by this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u335	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 204 was for, 228 against, 2 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 18c applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. Amendments 8 and 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left, joined the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now, law and justice politicians have shown how they treat entrepreneurs. The proposal was to increase the amount to PLN 0.5 million and you are against it. That's why we have a system solution for you. Instead of 120 grand. zł We suggest that you enter the multiple - the multiple of the lowest salary. We define it at level 45. This means that from next year it will be 117 thousand. zł, but after all, Mr Kaczyński said that in three years' time the lowest wage will be 4 000. PLN, so according to our proposal for 4 years this amount will amount to 180 thousand. zł. If you have the desire and ambition for entrepreneurs to live better and for this little ZUS+ to expand every year, this is the way and this proposal. I'm counting on you to say, just for small entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u337	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 7, 8 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 196 - for, 232 - against, 2 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3 draft amending act. The committees are filing for rejection. Ms Agnieszka Chat, PSL - Kukiz15, came to the question. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment abolishes the duration of this relief. Since you state in the explanatory statement that this relief is for small tailors, shoemakers or small service providers, and this project has been running for over a year, earlier, please tell me: Do you have such data that during this year this shoemaker, this tailor has suddenly become shoe tycoons, the clothing industry, has their situation really changed? If not, why should this be temporary? Why would you suddenly want to break it off after 3 years? Isn't it true that most of them simply decide to close this business? Have such studies and evaluations been carried out? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u339	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 230, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. But before that, the questions. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Four years ago, there was a noisy, big constitution for business. We didn't see it coming or maybe two paragraphs. That's one of those two paragraphs. Good paragraph, I'm not saying no, and I'm sure we'll all support that paragraph here in this room. But Prime Minister, isn't it a better solution, fair, tested in other countries, based on the fact that entrepreneurs are thinking people, responsible, able to turn money and give money to the budget, is a project which was submitted by the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 and supported by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, by all entrepreneurs, a voluntary project of ZUS? [[Applause]] Isn't it better to let entrepreneurs decide, like everyone who works for 20 years, that they pay contributions, and that the next 20 years they're multiplying the money that they're going to work for you, for us and for all citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u341	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I address the Members of the European Union and the Members of Law and Justice. After this vote, you will go to your constituency and look into the eyes of your entrepreneurs from your own region. And you know what you're gonna tell them? You will tell them that you have provided them with a relief of PLN 1300 million for the whole year for 2.5 million small entrepreneurs, which is exactly the same amount of money as public television as a subsidy. I don't know if you're gonna be embarrassed, and I don't know if your constituents really don't think they just made a mistake giving you power for the next four years. [[Applause]] Shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u343	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u344	Ladies and gentlemen! We had two almost identical amendments tabled to this bill. One is an amendment by the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, the other is an amendment by the Confederation, amendments abolishing the criterion of income. And I'm looking at the vote and I'm a little surprised. With the amendment of PSL the club left - 48 for, with the same amendment of the Confederation the club left - 43 against. [[Applause]] Are we dealing with some kind of collective split personality? Is this what the substantive opposition looks like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's love.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u345	Thank you, sir. That wasn't a question about the bill. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 54 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 433 was for, no one was against, no one stopped. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on Social Security and the Act on National Tax Administration. Why was there so much screaming? So much screaming. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law on amending the law on public collective transport. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 44. Mr Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u346	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to say that this bill, in short, concerns a very important thing, that is, collective transport, namely the system of concession for suburban and extra-urban transport tickets. This regulation should have come in four years ago, it was due from 2017, unfortunately it is postponed every year, which is a big problem for local governments and passengers and passengers throughout Poland. That is why I think it is scandalous that collective transport is not taken seriously enough. I think that we should take this subject seriously from January. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Club will abstain. Unfortunately, not prolonging this now will also mean communication chaos and therefore I call (the bell) for the seriousness of this topic in the near future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u347	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 44, will want to raise your hand and press the button, Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 304 was for, there was no one against, 129 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public Collective Transport Act. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the urgent draft government law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. The additional committee report shall be in print No 60-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There were no conclusions at first reading. During the second reading, an amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. It concerned only one entry under the special-purpose reserve. It was a proposal to change this record. 2 billion PLN, which is intended to finance the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, according to the applicants, should be used to finance another expenditure, i.e. the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases. After clarification by the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance and the Legislative Office, it was found that this request was unfounded because it could not be voted on in this manner. On the other hand, it was voted because it was supported by applicants. In the vote, the proposal has not been supported and the committee on behalf of which I am acting recommends that the High House reject it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u349	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 60. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment, applicants shall propose in the following Article. 24b different wording of paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal Terlecki, sitting here, stated that health care in Poland is considered to be one of the best in Europe. Ha, ha, ha! Perhaps there are those in the PiS who think so. Ladies and gentlemen! Poles and Poles spend over PLN 40 billion from their own pockets on private health services per year. Since when? It's only been four years. We also remember those boastful, informative, morally superior words of Karczewski... Who? Marshal! ...who said to residents that it's worth working for ideas, not just thinking about money. Yeah, actually, [[Applause]] High Izbo, Karczewski is a volunteer of the decade. Marshal Karczewski, Marshal. He made 400,000 on his free leave. zł. But what is this amendment about? The point of this amendment is that if we are already directing PLN 2 billion to the NFZ today, then let us focus these measures for a specific purpose, on the National Programme for the Control of Cancer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] $30,000. Polish people and Poles die prematurely of cancer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u351	Thank you, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left, joined the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u352	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Now, like this morning, we are convinced that as a Left, we will support this project. On the other hand, I ask once again that such important decisions should not be made in the manner in which this project is being conducted. We got it yesterday at an hour. 20. It's just a mockery of this House, it's a mockery of citizens, really. [[Applause]] We must have a working culture here. Get used to it. I ask that you decide to move in the budget - and this is one of the most important things - about PLN 3 billion, really... So that we can all think about it and support it, just as the Left supports you today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u353	Thank you, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Janusz Cieszyński, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u354	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We thought we'd cleared that up before the committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment actually means that we are taking 2 billion PLN from the National Health Fund and spending it on something that is already financed by the budget. Even the Legislative Office tried to explain this to the Members of the opposition - unfortunately, unsuccessfully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u355	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 200 was for, against - 226, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Before this question is asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We know well that this bill is not about any health money at all. Besides, the previous amendment showed exactly this. We know that it's not about any money for the police either. This law is simply intended to allow the government to escape with further budget expenditure outside the expenditure rule. Today, you take out the fuses and dismantle the stabilizing spending rule that was supposed to stop the government's appetite for spending money that it doesn't have, or money put aside for a black hour. [[Applause]] In fact, you know very well that both the Solidarity Fund, which we voted on at the previous meeting, and the NFZ reserve fund that we are voting on now, are funds placed outside the stabilizing expenditure rule. You're like a father who puts family savings, money on a pole. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u357	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 60 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 298 was in favour, against - 1, 133 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 53). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 and Article 4 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 53 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 422 - for, against - no one, stopped 4. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 December. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to make a statement about the Silesian Museum. I'll mention the story. The current director, Mrs Alicja Knast, became the director of the Upper Silesian Museum in Bytom and the Silesian Museum in Katowice in 2014 without a competition. The competition procedure would require several months of action, and there was no time for it, because the date of opening the Silesian Museum was inexorably approaching - explained this fact by the then Marshal of the Silesian Sejm from the Civic Platform. The Upper Silesian Museum was intended to be liquidated. These were the actions of the authorities of the Silesian Sejm. My intervention, after four attempts by the authorities of the then Marshal's office, led to the rescue of this facility. We are currently learning that the decision to revoke Director Alicia Kast is due to political motives. The appointment to head office without a competition and with the right gas was not a political matter, but now the control at the Katowice institution, which revealed numerous irregularities, and consequently the initiation of the appeal procedure of the director of Alicja Knast, is a political matter? [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal... Calm them down, because we're listening. I will only mention a few of the many post-control arrangements concerning this museum. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Violation of the Accounting Act. The fact that all or part of the exhibitions were disposed of without supporting documents, and these were exhibitions worth more than 100,000. PLN and even more than 900,000. Gold. There is no documentation indicating that measures are being taken to manage the premises properly. Divergence in rental costs, etc., etc. Louder! Currently, the Marshal's office claims that the results of the audit carried out at the Silesian Museum are equally shocking for the administration of the institution. It should be emphasized that directors manage invaluable collections which exceed the image of an average Pole of their material value, and therefore, if there are irregularities, they should be accounted for by those responsible for this state of affairs and exchanged for persons with competence and appropriate education, at least with the title of museum curator. Everyone should be obliged to care for the national goods that have been decimated as a result of World War II and other activities in the last century. Every preserved monument is a sacred thing that must be protected absolutely. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u359	Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Coalition, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of my statement I would like to say that I very much regret that we could not adopt a resolution today on the Nobel Prize for Olga Tokarczuk. [[Applause]] And it is worth realizing that this event is important not only for Polish literature, for Polish culture or for European literature at all, but it is also an important event from the point of view of what it conveys in its books Olga Tokarczuk. Let me remind you that Olga Tokarczuk in her speech, in her Nobel Lecture, mentioned how difficult it is to merge the world today, in the situation of many narratives of what happened to the world, which became a world of fragments of separate, separate entities, separate narratives, something that could not actually be combined well. Stendhal used to talk about how literature is like a mirror that walks around in a guest house. But it is worth recalling that he also spoke about the fact that the sky's azure and sometimes the mud of a roadside puddle are repeatedly viewed in this mirror. And this is the world today: between the blue sky and this puddle. It's stretched between what we want to be, who we want to be, and who we sometimes are or who the world makes us. Olga Tokarczuk in his narrative, in his novels, starting with the Travel of the People of the Book, tells about us, tells about our lives. It presents heroes among whom we should all really be able to find each other. Literature, in general art is something that allows us to enter a different life. Sometimes we envy who the heroes are, we want to be like them, we want to have a few lives. Because the world has become richer because we get to know it through literature, we get to know it through art. Olga Tokarczuk, worth mentioning, is also a representative of a generation of great Polish writers. Because this is Andrzej Stasiuk, this is Natasha Goerke, this is Marzanna Kielar, this is Adam Wiedemann, this is Krzysztof Siwczyk. This is a whole bunch of great writers who debuted in the 1990s and today are the glory of Polish literature. They're being translated all over the world. They represent our culture 100 times better than, I apologize very much, the Minister of Culture or present rulers with all their attachments. [[Applause]] There is in some sense what I quoted behind Stendhal from his novel Red and Black, an unusual connection with what Olga Tokarczuk said the day before yesterday in his Nobel lecture. Namely, this mirror where you look at the guest house is broken today. It's often cut. This fragmentation is precisely what happened to our world today also by discovering many new things through technology. We discover many worlds through how The Internet works today, for example. And in these worlds we often feel lonely, often alien, often underestimated, often rejected. Olga Tokarczuk in his novels is talking about how to find a common history, a common path, a common narrative. He's talking about how we should do it through the tenderness category. Talking about being sensitive to politicians is not an easy task, to say the least. [[Applause]] It's not. But Olga's trying to tell us that, too. We politicians. You just have to read those novels. Don't start and quit. You have to read them to the end. You have to read them wisely. [[Applause]] It is important to know that literature from the point of view of Polish culture is the greatest thing. Of course, we had extraordinary and great writers who deserved this reward. From poets I will mention Zbigniew Herbert or Tadeusz Różewicz. This award was awarded to Olga Tokarczuk, but I really think Olga would agree with me. I published her first serious story in the Culture Time in 1993. That's how she started. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Besides, creativity rejected this story. She would agree that, in fact, this Nobel Prize was awarded to Polish literature. All those in there patiently, craftsman, are trying to talk to us. in a wise way and in a way in which they try to help us understand the world. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u361	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Coalition Club. Thank you. I'm quitting. Bravo! Mr Jan Mosiński, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy? He's here. He just can't hear. You need to speak up. Mr Jan Mosiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the action that took place a few days ago throughout Poland, namely the organisation of Santa Claus actions for children's homes, for families who have failed in their lives, for poor families, where modest budgets did not allow children to buy gifts. Those organizations that took care of this action of Santa Claus were very many in Poland. It's hard to name them all one at a time. I would like to thank these organisations and, above all, the volunteers with all my heart. Thousands of young people who organized Santa Claus action across the country. There have also been organisations that do not have much in common with charity activities, but have also been involved in these noble activities. And speaking of nobility, I would like to draw attention to this work that the Noble Package has done. A few statistics. As a result of the 19th edition of the Noble Pack, the total value of the aid provided in the children's packages was over 45,860,000. zł. Over 14.5,000. families in need received packages. As part of the 19th edition, this idea of the Noble Pack combined 620 thousand in this work. persons. The average value of the package was over PLN 3,400 and the average number of people preparing the package was 38. Next to the Noble Pack, we also have something that I would like to mention, namely OFF ROAD Team Kalisz. People who like to drive, like extreme - so to speak - the conditions of driving in the field cars, screamed in Kalisz to prepare a Santa Claus action for children from the Children's House in Liskow. I think the reward for them was the smiley faces of those kids who saw powerful cars, powerful engines, roaring units, as some say, which cars people from OFF ROAD Team Kalisz came to this child's home with. I wanted to thank you - because these are young people, fascinated by such a ride, this is a very beautiful sport - for having found time for children in the Children's House in Liskow to smile when they arrived with these packages. Thank you very much and, of course, I encourage all of us, ladies and gentlemen, not only to join the action of the Noble Pack, but also to other charity activities that bring joy to the youngest ones, as well as to families of many children whose budgets are not tight enough to buy children once, twice a year, as part of a gift from a bunny or from St. Santa, presents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On December 8, 2018, in the Feast of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska - activist of the NSZZ She has been on the bench since 2004. Jolanta Szczypińska was harassed at the workplace, beaten several times, bullied, fired from the hospital where she worked as a nurse. Faithful to the end of the ideals of the first Solidarity, extremely sensitive to the suffering and harm of another human being. A pattern of empathy, constantly smiling and open. He was always the first to be different to her, the needy, the suffering man. She was saving her cases for later. She passed away a year ago, definitely prematurely, leaving many people of good faith, friends, friends and colleagues in great sadness. She left with dignity, with great faith and humility, accepting the will of the Lord. She suffered in silence, not pleading for herself or her needs. The Seym without Jolanta Szczypińska, without the Member, is not the same Seym. On Sunday 8 December 2019, on the first anniversary of the death of Mrs Słupsk, her hometown, there was an anniversary ceremony commemorating the Member. Anniversary Mass in behalf of the deceased was celebrated in the church of St. The Blessed Virgin Mary of the Queen of the Holy Rosary. The numerous participation of the faithful in the Eucharist has shown the great sympathy enjoyed by your Member in Słupsk. After the Holy Mass, the plaque commemorating the dead was solemnly unveiled. Jolanta Szczypinska. The board was walled into a building on the street. Lutosławski, in which for many years she had a parliamentary office and worked as a parliamentarian. After the plaque was unveiled, participants of the ceremony had the opportunity to participate in the premiere of an extraordinary report about Jolanta Szczypińska. On the initiative of the director of the Polish Television SA Branch of Gdansk Joanna Strzemieczna-Rozen, a film was created, which caused very great emotions among viewers. Again we saw Jola beautiful, smiling, mentioned by the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, friends, activists of Solidarity, parliamentarians. It is a beautiful document - a tribute to life, work, as well as faithfulness to principles and ideals and sensitivity of sleep. Member of the Commission. As the chairman of the district board of 26 Słupsk, or organizer of Sunday celebrations, I thank all those who have contributed to the celebrations of the anniversary. Thank you very much to President Jarosław Kaczyński for a letter full of empathy, which I had the pleasure of reading to the participants of the ceremony, who were very touched. Thank you, Fr. Reverend Zbigniew Krawczyk for his Holy Mass. I would like to thank colleagues of the district board, law and justice activists in Słupsk. I would like to thank Mariusz Łuczyk, the deputy leader of the district board in Słupsk, Jack Za ran for his great commitment and help, former employees, Agnieszka Błachnio and Jack Żukowski for their beautiful multimedia presentation. Thank you to President Słupska Krystyn Daniletka-Voivodeship for all the organizational assistance and great support provided. I would like to thank all delegations, flag posters, uniformed services, colleagues from the Bytov, Chojnice, Człuchów, Lębork and Słupska field committees. I would like to thank the director and co-workers of the Polish Television in Gdańsk, Joanna Jereczek and Rafał Ostrowski - the authors of the document and the entire team of employees, thanks to whom the report was created. It's a beautiful souvenir and a tribute to sleep. Member of the Commission. In the evening, you arrived in Słupsk by the Marshal of the Polish Sejm Elżbieta Witek and placed flowers on the grave and on the board. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you so much for that. We believe you're asleep. The Member we are talking about is that she held her cell phone in one hand and the Rosary in the other is in heaven. Jolu, we remember and we'll remember you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u365	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! E-prescriptions shall enter into force on 1 January 2020. It's a good thing that we've been trying to sort things out for the patient's comfort. But are you sure it's for convenience? Well, this process of switching from paper to e-prescription in the UK lasted for several years, in Poland it will last for several months. What threats do doctors and patients see? First of all, it's too fast. Of course, we know that there are even small towns where doctors have dealt with the problem and at the moment thousands of e-prescriptions are already being issued. But this concerns very efficient managers, those who deal with every situation. What's the percentage? As those who manage medicine say, it's not that big a percentage. That goes for, say, 30%. Other people need to prepare for this. This time is too short. In this case, on 2 December, there was an interpellation, whose author focused primarily on the fact that doctors, and we have over 60% of older doctors, may not be able to cope, may leave work. I don't agree with that. The doctors can handle it. But can patients cope? Patients who will receive the code are used to the prescription. The code can be lost. You don't know, you don't have one. They're talking about a cell phone. Not everyone has a cell phone. But there are bigger problems. The first is the failure of computer systems. With tens of thousands of clinics disorders, computer suspensions, or just some computer problems may occur and will definitely occur. Not as far as one of the doctors turned on the computer today. And what did he see instead of being able to issue a prescription? Black screen. So it's not entirely prepared. My statement after this interpellation, which has not yet had any effect, is for the ministry to change just one more thing - because we have a sitting - extended the vacathio legis by at least six months. After all, very often in the case of a law that has a short vacathio legis, it is then extended, sometimes even by a year or more. So why don't we just... There's no need to be alarmed. To whom will this be the greatest concern? For the patient, because he's the one who won't get the prescription. And if the Internet doesn't work in a small town, what will it do for the patient? The fact that he will have to come to the doctor again and wait for a prescription for some time - and sometimes travel several dozen kilometers. But that's not the only problem. These problems are much, much more, e.g. Rescue services don't always have a laptop, they're not always prepared for that. Sometimes, as the doctors told me - the towns are very small - it is difficult to get there, not to mention a prescription. There is still time, a good time to do a very good initiative, without worrying patients, because in them mostly will hit all irregularities and lack of proper preparation. I therefore call on the Ministry of Health to consider and analyse whether the implementation of the law is already sufficiently prepared that patients will not suffer and will be successful. It's not about the national average. It's about every patient, especially the older one, especially the disabled one. It was for him that the English prepared for the entry into force of the e-prescription until three years or longer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From 1 January 2020, a new law on order and cleanliness in municipalities will apply. Therefore, the authorities of the following municipalities are forced to raise the charges for the export of waste. They've been calculating it for weeks. And so on. when they pay 131% for their trash to be exported more, cdancing - 100% and the inhabitants of Bialystok - about 70%. It is another law introduced by this government, the consequences of which are burdened by local governments, namely us, the inhabitants. The municipalities would like to reduce these increases, but without subsidies from the state budget, although partial, this will not be possible. Such drastic price increases cause, among others. those provisions of the bill. Firstly, traders will be able to sign contracts for the export of waste with a voluntary entity. This will lead to the departure of entrepreneurs from municipal waste collection systems, which will lead to a deficit in the financing of waste collection and disposal. Secondly, imposing additional requirements on waste companies - i.e. monitoring, bailouts, registers - increases the cost of their operations by up to 1 million a year. Another reason to increase the export price of waste is the increase in the so-called charge. use of the environment. In 2018 it was 140 PLN per tonne, in 2019 - 170 PLN per tonne, and in 2020 it will be 270 PLN per tonne. Of course, the increase is also due to an increase in electricity prices. Even though the PiS government promised that there would be no growth, they would, and that would be very drastic. The responsibility of each government should be to introduce laws on its own account, not at the expense of local governments, i.e. us, residents. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister how the government intends to compensate the municipalities for the introduction of the Waste Act, which has such a drastic impact on residents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u369	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Various statements were made today from this pulpit. I will say that for Poles one of the most important statements is a statement by Mr Rafał Grupiński saying or congratulating our compatriot Olga Tokarczuk Literary Nobel Prize. We join as the Civic Coalition Club. But there are ground-based matters that are important for Poles: electricity prices. That's what we're asking, and today, December 12th, the government doesn't answer that question. We look forward to answering questions about how much each resident, each farm will pay more for electricity, how much will the entrepreneurs pay, as this will affect the price of the goods. Rulers only calm Poles. There's no action. My colleague told me about waste management, which is important for local governments. I would like to focus on an important issue for local governments, but also for us, i.e. to finance education and the missing subsidies for local governments. According to the report prepared by the Association of Polish Cities, the total funding gap in education calculated as the difference between expenditure and education subsidy amounts to PLN 27 billion. This gap increased particularly strongly between 2017 and 2018, i.e. during the reform period in the education system. As the local authorities point out, even wage costs are currently not covered, not to mention the cost of maintaining schools or the necessary investments, which are also coming due to the need to adapt the classes to the new conditions. Moreover, local authorities argue that the 2020 budget does not guarantee funds or cover expenditure related to teachers paid since September 2019 with a increase of 9.6% , or to cover expenditure related to the projected increase of 6% in 2020. I received a letter from one of the local authorities. The mayor of the commune and the city of Sokołów Małopolska in Podkarpackie Voivodeship writes that for educational tasks in 2020 funds of PLN 33 million are planned in the budget. Of this amount, the funds for salaries and compulsory benefits are PLN 29 million and the amount of the subsidy granted to the municipality is PLN 19 million. There are 10 billion zlotys missing from this account for real needs. This 10 billion PLN of state budget in subsidies did not give the local government. On 30 October, the Joint Government and Local Government Commission discussed issues related to the rapid increase in local education expenditure resulting from education reform, as well as increases for teachers. In this way, because there is no draft budget for 2020, and the local governments have to make decisions about their budgets, I ask the Prime Minister: What are the figures on the allocation of general subsidies for 2020 for individual local government units in Poland, but also in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship? What measures does the government intend to take if the planned amounts of funding provided to local governments in the education subsidy in 2020 prove to be so significantly insufficient? We are talking about the absence of PLN 27 billion. But there are fewer investments, or there are higher taxes or charges. The waste management didn't work, and the funding of local governments... Unfortunately, the state of self-governments is underestimating, and you underestimate that they carry out important tasks for citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u371	Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Safe Świętokrzyskie. Security is a state that gives confidence and guarantees its behaviour and an opportunity to improve. Security is one of the basic needs of man. There is no risk of losing something particularly valuable to man: life, health, work, respect, feelings, material goods and intangible goods. In order to be fully able to develop your potential and function productively in society, you need to feel safe. The fulfillment of this condition allows him to stabilise and operate for the sake of his family and country. The Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, meeting the expectations and needs of its inhabitants, initiated a program called "Safe Świętokrzyskie" (Safe Świętokrzyskie). The Security Cooperation Programme was established on 5 December 1999. Initially, it was assumed that the programme would operate for 5 years. The success he achieved and the enthusiasm with which he met has led him to continue to this day, and the result of a healthy, creative competition between the districts of Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship is the award of the Koziołka. The idea of distinguishing districts, which were particularly committed to the goal of ensuring the maximum level of security for the inhabitants of Świętokrzyskie province, was born among Kielce policemen. The initiator of the award of the best statuette was the insp. Tadeusz Cielecki, Chief of Police in Kielce. In view of the fact that the image of Koziołek Matołek from Pacanów arouses widespread sympathy, it was decided to choose the character of the statuette as this goat. Thus, after obtaining permission to use the image of the goat from the heirs of Kornel Makuszyński, the Pacan Koziołek Matołek gained a cousin. Since then, i.e. since 2000, it has been an annual reward for contributing to the safety of residents. The aim of the Koziołek Award was primarily to support the activity and promote local authorities, where through the actions of natural and legal persons there has been a noticeable improvement in the state of civil security and the security of state, municipal and private assets. The established social attitudes are designed to strengthen the order, order, civic attitude and proper response to events that occur in the immediate surroundings of the sanctimonious land. In this way good examples, achievements and opportunities for action to combat crime and pathology are shown. Participation in the "Safe Świętokrzyskie" programme, and thus competition between powiats tames society with the activities of services and institutions working for the security of citizens and the protection of their rights and assets. For the best who will prove by their attitude and actions that they deserve to be honoured with the prestigious statuette of the goat, financial support is guaranteed for the projects carried out related to the program "Safe Świętokrzyskie. In order to be among the candidates for the prize, Świętokrzyskie voivodship must undertake activities far beyond their normal duties to improve security. In the elimination of the prize, an analysis is carried out of actions such as increasing security levels, safeguarding state or private assets, contributing to the dissemination of the foundations of social activity in the field of security of other people and public order and tranquillity. The initial evaluation of the powiats is carried out by a working team seconded by the chapter of the Koziołka Prize, consisting of representatives of Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, Marshal of Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship and Świętokrzyskie Chief of Police in Kielce. This team visits individual districts each year, which have declared their willingness to participate in the competition, and looks at the actions to improve security in the region on the spot. The working group at the section of the Koziołek Award after summing up the reports on the implementation of the program.Safe Świętokrzyskie.The respective counties are eligible for the winner of the annual edition of the Koziołka Award. The final decision at the secret meeting, however, is taken by the chapter of Koziołek, which consists of: Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, Marshal of Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, Świętokrzyski Police Voivodeship Commandant, President of the Association of Cities and Municipalities of the Region of Świętokrzyskie, President of the Convention of Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. The winner and the counties that took second and third place receive the Koziołka in-kind prize and the cash prizes to be allocated for the implementation of the Safer Świętokrzyskie programme. For personal reasons, I would like to mention that this year Koziołek's award went to the district of Włoszczów. This is a special distinction, given that it took place during the 20th anniversary of the prize, it also honoured the security measures taking place in the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Włoszczów County could not have celebrated an anniversary so important for millions of Poles better than by engaging in 2018 to improve their comfort and safety. This would not have been possible if it had not been for the involvement of people and institutions who have been very committed to implementing the programme. It should be mentioned here the Police District Command headed by Mariusz Przyborowski, the District Command of the State Fire Department headed by Commander Krzysztof Ciozek, the Foundation (BELL RINGING) We are close, as well as a number of individuals, including the distinguished Marcin Sztuka. The Koziołek Prize is a great initiative from the sanctimonious police. Reflection on the program "Safe Świętokrzyskie" and thus the Koziołek prize, cannot be different from the fact that teamwork is the most important. Individualism is valued for a moment, nothing brings the best results than working together. Thank you very much, sir. Self-governments who compete for the statuette each year prove it best. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u373	Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2011, the Warsaw-run platform sold the Capital Warm Energy Company. This city company was a monopoly on the Warsaw market in terms of providing heat to apartments. The company owned a municipal district heating network and had a huge number of patents, but also brought huge revenues to the city. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz and the Warsaw Platform sold 85% SPEC shares for 1,400 million PLN - and note - to whom, the state concern from France. In total, SPEC was purchased at the credit rating price of SPEC at the time. Instead of taking a loan of PLN 1400 million and securing it with the assets of SPEC, it was decided to sell SPEC for this price. How did it happen that the state-owned company from France was profitable to buy the Capital Warm Energy Company, and Warsaw was not profitable to own a company that was a monopoly on the Warsaw market? Since then, the quality of the services provided has deteriorated. The new owner closed down the district thermal power plants responsible for the repair and maintenance of the equipment. The lack of proper maintenance can be demonstrated by the recent bus failure, which cut off several districts of Warsaw from the supply of heat. Over the course of several years, there have been significant increases in heat charges in Warsaw, although the Civic Platform in 2011 promised that this would not happen. SPEC, a golden egg-bearer, has been sold, and the new owner of the district heating network can unpunishedly rob the inhabitants of Warsaw. The capital city of Warsaw was deprived of the dividend from having SPEC. In 2011 the company brought about PLN 50 million to the Warsaw cashier. The new owner as a monopoly in 2012 has already earned about PLN 77 million. The current annual revenues of this company amount to more than PLN 100 million. The platform in Warsaw, selling the Capital Warm Energy Company at a relatively low price, led to the fact that the city monopoly was placed in the hands of a foreign state-owned company, which increased the prices of heat supply and at the same time lowered the standard of services. Is this an act for the good of the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u375	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u376	Declaration on Poland's war with the Teutonic Order. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 500 years ago, on 11 December 1519, the last war between Poland and the Teutonic Order began, which ended in 1525. Prussian tribute. Albrecht Hohenzollern, nephew of King Zygmunt the Old, great master of the Teutonic Knights, made territorial claims against Poland, demanding the return of Royal Prussia and Warmia and payment of compensation for 50 years of the Polish occupation - 30 thousand each. Guilders a year. On 20 August 1518 Bishop of Płock Erasmus Ciołek performed at the Reich Seym in Augsburg with an anti-Crossian filipica. On 11 December 1519 the Toruń Sejm approved the beginning of the war with the Teutonic Knights, but Lithuania refused to help Poland. Hetman the great Crown Santa Firle carried out a concentration of 4,000. Polish troops heavy in the camp near the Circle. The Polish crews of Gdansk and Toruń were strengthened. The Polish troops hit by Pomezania towards the King and besieged Kwidzyn and Pasłęk, which were won in the spring. At the same time, the caper fleet blocked the Teutonic ports - Królewiec and Piława. In defense of the threatened Order, the legacies of Pope Leon X, who accused Poland of raising hands on Christian knighthood in the face of the threat of the Tatar invasion. It was a game for Albrecht Hohenzollern, who was waiting for reinforcements. The Teutonic Controfense began in July 1520. The fight lasted until January 1521, when the Teutonic armies unsuccessfully stormed the fortress in Olsztyn, prepared for defence by Nicolaus Copernicus. In the face of the new invasion of the Ottoman Turks in Hungary, on 5 April 1521 the parties agreed to sign the ceasefire for 4 years and to bring the dispute before the court of a dispute between Charles V and King Louis the Jagiellonian of Hungary. In 1525 the term of ceasefire expired, but Albrecht Hohenzollern could no longer count on support and reinforcements from the Reich. On 8 April 1525 the Treaty of Cracow was signed, whose secularized Prussia Princess became the hereditary lair of the Kingdom of Poland, remaining in the hands of the Hohenzollern dynasty. On 10 April Albrecht paid tribute to Zygmunt Stary on the market in Krakow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u377	Dear Marshal! I would like to inform you that in the vote on the amendment to the Government bill amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, point 8, print No 56, after my speech, I did not find myself on the spot during the vote. As a result, although I wanted to vote in favour of the amendment, I did not have time to vote. Please correct the vote in the minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u378	On the anniversary of martial law. December 13th marks the 38th anniversary of the martial law. About an hour. On December 13, 1981, General Wojciech Jaruzelski spoke on the radio about the formation of the Military Council of National Rescue and the introduction of martial law by a decree of the Council of State. Work on the introduction of martial law lasted over a year and was carried out under the supervision of the commander-in-chief of the Warsaw Pact troops march. Victor Kulikov and his staff. The announcements of martial law were printed in the Soviet Union. How complex this undertaking was, let the numbers prove it. About 70,000 participated in the militia-military activities. Soldiers, 3,000. militiamen, 1,900 combat vehicles, 1,700 tanks and 9,000. Cars. The detention of opposition activists was started by the communist authorities on the night of December 12. Within a few days, about 5,000 were placed in 49 internment centres. activists of the Solidarity and opposition. The list of these persons has been drawn up since the beginning of the year. In the region where I was vice-president, it looked like this. 12 December 1981 at 3 p.m. 17.25 to the Cracow MO command at ul. Mogilska received an order from Warsaw to initiate a synchronized operation operation, i.e. an order to introduce martial law. Half an hour after it was received, a full couple were already working at the station. The ZOMO units announced a state of full readiness, formed groups to take over the seat of the Management Board of the NSZZ Region. Lenin. Internment teams have been launched, which will start at 3 p.m. 8:45 p.m. the crowbars have been released. Throughout the evening, all SB and MO units were constantly checked for fuel supplies, food supplies, weapons, command security. The action of the Jodła, i.e. the internation of activists of the Solidarity and other independent organizations, began at hours. 23.30 at the same time as the "Azalia" action - the blockade of telecommunications connections. About an hour. 1.27 Adam Trzybiński - Regional Commandant of MO, reported to the MMA: "Kraków quieted." The army is. Three minutes later, he was informed that the tenants had blocked the corridor to Mieczysław Gil's apartment - the leader of the Lesser Poland Solidarity. The ZOMO platoon was immediately sent, and when Gil went up to the roof, further reinforcements were made: militia tatterers and firefighters. Voivodship Chief MO has appointed 7,000. zł reward for an officer who will keep Gil. Earlier, he asked the head of the SB to explain why he was allowed to escape. After hours. 5 reports came from Olsztyn and Ostróda that Kraków activists of the NSZZ.Solidarity were detained returning from the meeting of the National Commission in Gdansk. In the morning, the night internships in Małopolska were summarized: 83 people were detained from 147 planned, 40 were staying outside Krakow. Until 3 p.m. 15 were held 40 warning talks - the action "Klona" and 25 people signed the loyalties. Interns from the Cracow Voivodeship were transported to retreat centers, as officially called internment camps, in Nowy Wiśnicz, and from New Sądecki and Tarnowski to Załęż near Rzeszów. Interns, prisoners in militia buildings to Nowa Wiśnicz or Załęża, could see the names of past towns through the cracks. They all pointed to the eastern direction, so they were driving with the conviction that they were being transported to the Soviet Union. They were relieved that they were sent to the PRL prisons. Even though there was a ZOMO-wreck with angry dogs waiting for them in the Bedside. There's a memory left in my memory. The night from 12 to 13 December 1981 broke down the door, showed an internment order. A war with your own society. Then MO Station at Wide and first transport to Wiśnicz, an old Poustrian prison. The chief's surprised to see me in the infirmary, which is a penal cell for the prisoners. The glass is broken, the cold is protected by a goat. Liliana was firm: if they arrest you in winter, you have to take warm things. The first two nights in total isolation from any information. You have to hold on, I say to myself, it's nothing compared to Stalinist times. After two days, they move me to a three-man cell. There's Zbylut Fryer, the painter, and Robert Kaczmarek. Years later, Zbylut will paint a series of paintings inspired by his stay in prison. He's gonna put me and R. Kaczmark on one of them. Today, this painting is in the collections of the National Museum in Kielce. Most families didn't know where they were until Christmas. Similarly, the interns had no news from their homes or about the situation on the other side of the bars. But in these dramatic moments one could find the crumbs of hope: singing for the purpose of songs, among others. The Green Crow, which, as it turned out later, was recorded by security and so far it is possible to listen to the prison recordings, whether the story quoted by my wife Liliana: On 27 December we went to Wiśnicz three times with Joanna Schoenova and Danusia Skórowa. When we waited for sights that we were not allowed to see, I was alone with only one guard for a moment. He came close and whispered: 'Don't worry, we've already handed over the full list of interneds to the curia, everyone lives; if you win, we'll show those bastards.' The martial law was suspended on 31 December 1982, and on 22 July 1983, some of the repressive legislation was still in force. The number of people who died as a result of martial law is difficult to determine. Victims' letters count from dozens to over 100 names. The number of people who lost their health during this period is also unknown as a result of persecution and beating during investigations or during street demonstrations. ♪ On December night ♪ They took us, wives, mothers cheated, We've been camped, martial law declared, Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, We're gonna live this night miserable... High Izbo! Let us remember the difficult events of the latest history of our country and pay tribute to the victims of martial law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-12-sejm-02-1.u379	The meeting shall be adjourned by 19 December 2019 at the latest. 10. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20]]
