ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Catherine Osos, Martha Jakubiak, Arkadiusz Marchewka and Robert Warwas to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Katarzyna Osos and Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Catherine Osos and Marta Kubiak. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u2	Thank you. I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the following Commission: - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 9, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 9, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9, - Investigative to examine the regularity, legality and negligence of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 9, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Economy and Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 11, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 11.30, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 14.15, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15, - Public Finance - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - Health-- hour. 4:30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17. I would also like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for the Assessment of the Social and Economic Situation in the Areas of the PGR - hour 12.30, - Parliamentary Group for: UNESCO World Heritage Site - 3 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Public Debates - 3 p.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u3	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on income tax on individuals, the Law on family benefits and the Act on public-funded healthcare, - amending the Law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in the years 2017-2020. - to change the act on the nurse and midwife competitions. Those reports shall, respectively, be in prints 3591, 3567 and 3578. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and, in the case of the print report No 3591, consent to the application of Article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Joanna Borowiak, Lidia Burzyńska, Anna Milczanowska, Zbigniew Chmielowiec and Mariusz Trepka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! On 1 January 2017, the Law on the Establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office entered into force in 2017-2020. Over PLN 9 billion has been allocated to the programme, of which more than PLN 500 million have been guaranteed for the modernisation of voluntary fire-fighting units. Since 2016, new rules have been introduced for granting grants to voluntary firefighters. The new method of allocating funds was dissatisfied by the representatives of the General Board of TSOs, and false information was emerging in the media area that the new formula of the co-financing would even lead to the liquidation of voluntary firefighters. This information initially aroused concern among CSR's friends in the field. It soon became clear that the new system was intended to optimise and ensure transparency in the distribution of funds to voluntary firefighters. The money started to go to those units that couldn't count on funding before. Minister! The third year of operation of the programme and the new formula for granting grants to voluntary firefighters is a good time for a summary. Therefore, I kindly ask the Minister to answer the question of how much money has so far been given to voluntary firefighters, what kind of tasks, which equipment has been provided with CSR units, including how many rescue and fire-fighting vehicles have been transferred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u5	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Polish fire protection system, the fire protection system consists, you can say, of two lungs. From the professional lungs of the State Fire Department and from the lungs of voluntary, social, voluntary firefighters. In Poland over 500 thousand occur in the course of the year. events to which professional or volunteer firefighters rush or together. It is easy to count that every minute someone in Poland needs their help. Of those 500,000. Half of the events are served by professional firefighters, and the other half by professional firefighters together with volunteers, or by volunteers themselves. So about 1/2, or 1/4 of all events is served by the volunteers themselves, and the other 1/4 of this half together with professional firefighters. So we take care of both lungs equally, because they are equally needed and working together, ensuring the safety of Poles in various situations, in situations of different oppression. Because today they are not only fires, but also various other so-called fires. Local threats, traffic accidents, actions of nature forces, civilizational threats, technical threats - these are different situations. And today, the fire department is responding to all of them. This is the most multifunctional of all services. Today we cannot imagine our safety in Poland without both professional firefighters and volunteers. Therefore, the government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the management of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, the chief of the State Fire Department, the commanders of all levels - together we take care to support volunteer firefighters and strengthen their potential so that they can respond effectively to all threats. That is why we have included in the programme the modernisation of uniformed services for the years 2017 and 2020 in addition to the state, professional and three other services in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as fellow volunteers, the amount of 501 400 000 mentioned by the Member. PLN for 4 years, with such a division that 335 800 thousand. this is the amount allocated to those units which are included in the national rescue and fire protection system, and there are more than 16 thousand of them in Poland. Units are divided into those that are included in the national rescue and fire-fighting system, such units are almost 4.5 thousand, 4450 - this number is dynamic and increasing, because more units apply to be included in this system - for them there is the amount from the modernization law 335 800 thousand. PLN, and for other units of TSOs not included in this system - for them there is an amount of 165 600 000. zł. These funds are used first for the purchase of rescue and fire-fighting vehicles, i.e. the most basic, necessary equipment for all firefighters, but also for the purchase of special technology equipment, hydraulic gear sets, medical rescue kits, aircraft, fire pumps, generators, saws for cutting wood, steel and concrete, ladders and other specialist fire equipment, water fittings and other equipment. They are also dedicated to the purchase of IT equipment: separate radios, selective alarm systems, alarm sirens, sub-heel kits for radios, phone chargers, etc., as well as to the purchase of personal and protective equipment, as well as to support investments and renovations of facilities for volunteers. Here I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the volunteers as sincerely as possible, and there are a lot of them in Poland. This is our Polish, beautiful specificity at all. Over 100,000. Firefighters of volunteers from units included in the national fire escape and several hundred thousand other firefighters operating in other units of CSR in those over 16 thousand. units in Poland. I am really grateful for their sacrifice, for their professionalism, because individuals and firefighters are becoming more and more professional, because that is what today's situation requires, the nature of today's threats and the need to work together with professional guards. I would also like to stress that voluntary firefighters, in addition to basic activities, also play a very important role in integrating the local community into cultural activities. A very important, large social dimension has their presence in individual municipalities and towns, and there is no commune where there would be no voluntary guards, and even in individual municipalities there are several, so they are also present in larger villages. They deserve great respect and great appreciation, so we support them and we will support them by increasing their efforts. Between 2015 and 2018, we increased funding from the state budget by more than 30% for volunteers' mates. In 2015, i.e. in the last year of the government of the PO-PSL coalition, our predecessors, it was a sum of PLN 105.5 million. In 2018 it was already an amount of PLN 137.5 million. Plus, there's support from other resorts. Last year the Minister of Justice supported fellow volunteers - we conducted this process together, but it was money from the Justice Fund - over PLN 100 million. It was really very valuable help. I thank Minister Zbigniew Ziobra for his support for the firefighters for their cooperation in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They also support national and voivodship environmental funds, which are supervised by the Minister of Environment. Now, Mr. Marshal, I am finishing this part of the speech, but I would like to add that this year we are buying thanks to this cooperation and financial assembly, which comes from various sources, but an important part are national funds and regional environmental funds, a record number of cars for voluntary friends. It will be 480 cars this year thanks to the kindness, good cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and its institutions. I would like to thank Minister Henry Kowalczyk for understanding, for empathy, for cooperating in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you also - the last sentence in this part, Mr. Marshal - I want to thank the local authorities, because their contribution to the purchase of each car is also very important. This is even the starting point so that we can assemble this assembly so that we can buy cars. Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Chief! Thank you very much for your help. We, Members, are also very grateful to the bridesmaids and bridesmaids of the voluntary fire department, because actually every day we look at their work, we are close to their actions and we see how it happens, how great their ambitions are, how determined they are to be to help others, and how well they can integrate the society in which they operate. I wanted to ask this question: Did the revised system of distribution of funds for voluntary fire services contribute to ensuring a higher level of safety and better conditions for service? As is the case with the previous way of allocating grants to voluntary fire services, the Minister has already mentioned, but I would like him to say again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Zieliński again corresponds to the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In 2016, we introduced these new rules for the financing of voluntary fire-fighting units. They were very needed, desirable and perfect. Unfortunately, at that time, the opposition alleged in a completely unfounded way that this would harm the CSR units. I even heard from the left side of the room such opinions that even the carat did not destroy - it is a scandal to say such a sentence in the Polish Sejm - units of CSR, they were created at that time, during the partitions, and the government of Law and Justice and Minister Zieliński will destroy. Somehow we have not destroyed, but on the contrary - these units are being strengthened, their potential is increasing, and most importantly, countries, we are building through this uniform system of financing a coherent rescue and fire extinguisher system. At the same time, the Head of Civil Defence of the Country has these resources and he sees all these needs on the scale of the country, individual voivodships, individual powiats, because this is of course requested by the district commanders in consultation with the units of TSOs of individual levels, with their organizations, because they are associations of the district level, the voivodeship level, they propose through the voivodeship commanders and of course the chief commander takes account of the hierarchy of those needs which are reported and formulated in the powiats and voivodships. So that this happens in consultation and with firefighters associated at various levels of the Association of Volunteer Firefighters, and with state, district, city, voivodeship commanders, because they see these needs closer. It all looks really good. With the strengthening of funds, with the increasing funding of CSR units from different sources, as we hear, and with this uniformity of treatment, not who is closer, who is faster, but who needs more, who is more needed for rescue and fire operations, for the activities to which the fire department is assigned, he receives support. There were also such questions here at one time on the left side of the room: And why is the chief making some kind of review? these CSR units, what right, if they're associations? It is by such a law that they fulfil an extremely important role in the security system and the commander must know what they need, what they have the potential and what kind of action they need to strengthen. Indeed, this situation has brought great progress since 2016, and firefighters have moved on to these solutions in a process. I think acceptance is quite common today. Anyway, I hear that I'm also getting correspondence from different sides, from different places in the country, that there is real acceptance for these solutions. This brings good results and we will continue to do so, and we will continue to strengthen the CSR units. We'll also be handing over cars. This year we will pass on no less than 50 cars - it is worth mentioning this - from the State Fire Department, cars still functioning, only with this minimal resourcing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which must be in order to be able to pass the car, but efficient cars, which for many years will continue to serve the CSR units. It's also an injection, and there's a power supply in addition to buying these new cars. Really, ladies and gentlemen, I am not able to answer everything, because there is no time, but I will give the answer in writing to these questions that have arisen in relation to the various voivodships. I'm prepared for this, but there's no time. I would like to point out that all voivodships, all voivodships, all gminas and all CSR units receive at the end of the year or at the beginning of the following year, after a summary, accurate information on the financing of CSR units on a national scale, on a voivodship scale, on a county scale, on a commune scale and for individual units, so this is transparent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Here I emphasize this - Mr. Marshal, I am finishing - this is a transparent system. That never happened, because before, the Chief Executive of the Volunteer Fire Department didn't even give reports to the Chief Chief, so he didn't know where the money was going. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: And once again, I thank all the firefighters and professional firefighters for our safety. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Members Isabel Leszczyn and Halina Rozpondek, the Civic Platform Club. This is a question of disagreement between two state banks. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Since 2016, Prime Minister Morawiecki and the PiS government have been nationalising banks, ensuring that this is a positive action, because state banks are safe and citizen-friendly. That's a lie. Bank services are increasingly expensive, banks' profits are increasing, and state banks are indeed willing to lend, but President Kaczyński is willing to build two towers in Warsaw, not to save jobs in Częstochowa. The dramatic situation in the Częstochowa steelworks has continued since May. Since May the factory has not worked, employees are on vacation or on so-called. parking, i.e. They get lower salaries. Why? Because these state-owned, citizens-friendly banks didn't want to give credit to a fund that wants to take over the steelworks for debt from the current owners. For the past two months, the steel workers have been asking for the help of the prime minister, the government and nothing - silence. It had to be 200 steel workers desperate for job losses to come to Warsaw, picket under the bank so that the bank president would leave and say that he would return to negotiations. If the steelworks fell, the social costs would be as follows: in addition to more than 1,200 employees, this is 5,000. jobs around the steelworks. Prime Minister! I expect an answer here, from the Parliamentary Speaker - that the government will guarantee that the negotiations will be quick and effective, that they will end by July 10, that the president of the bank, frightened by the steel workers, will not withdraw from these negotiations and that it will not be so that the promise you made to the steel mills yesterday will be such a promise as the one you gave to the often-chosen people that the Częstochowa Voivodeship, which they have been waiting for four years without success. I hope you don't want to fool the steelworks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just like you tricked the commons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Niebożak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, will reply under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I, to tell you the truth, am now a little bit in a dot, because these questions that have been put in writing completely do not correspond with those that have now been asked. However, I will try to respond to my modest possibilities. Let's get started. The first question concerns the situation of Huta Częstochowa - whether government members are aware of this difficult situation. Let me put it this way: since the privatisation that took place in the hands of Prime Minister Belka, Huta Częstochowa has been completely in private hands. It was Ukrainian capital from Donbass, it seems that today it is Russian capital, too. So it's totally in the hands of private capital. Therefore, detailed information about the situation of the steelworks is obviously not known to us - they are not because we are not the owners of the steelworks. We only have information that is in the public domain, which is in the public sphere, in the media, also from unionists. Of course, on such a level of general awareness, it is no secret that the situation of the steelworks is not good, but, as I said, the details, also the ownership policy, are not known to us. As far as the question of trade union writings is concerned, from the steelworks of Huta Częstochowa, let me put it this way: as far as I know - I have a copy of three such writings in front of me, they are, you can say, from the last week, a little bit longer, 26, 27 June - 1 July - they are addressed to the bank presidents, members of the government, the Prime Minister gets to know them, so we are here participants in this correspondence on the basis of the news. As far as we know, at least one of these banks responded to these letters. With regard to the last question from those submitted in writing: Why do large Polish banks not cooperate to rescue the steelworks?, I will say this: again, please remember that these banks are banks - although they actually have State Treasury shares in both banks, they are public limited companies listed on the stock exchange, public trust institutions which have to operate on the basis of the provisions of banking law, based on the provisions of k.s.h. The members of the boards of these banks have a duty, with responsibility, a very serious responsibility, to act in the best interest of the funds entrusted to them. After all, they have the resources, they lend the capital. Where's the capital coming from? This capital is from people who keep their money on deposits in these banks. Therefore, we cannot expect them to, say, make decisions as if in complete isolation from the risks associated with the situation. And I'd like to draw your attention. it is on both the owner, as I already mentioned in the first question, which controls this steelworks and, on the other hand, on the investment fund which is interested here or at least declares interest. Again - I can only refer here to information that is in public space. So I would like to point out that this British fund, if you look at the publicly available media history of its operation, this is it. also a fund, which mainly invests e.g. in assets in the UK, just steely, but also to liquidate them, and not necessarily to restructure them. Therefore, we are dealing with a very complicated, risky trade transaction between private entities, Ukrainian, Russian capital and banks in which, yes, the Treasury has shares, but they must operate on commercial terms. Therefore, it seems to me that such - these were already more statements than what is in writing - demanding, saying that here the Polish government must guarantee this transaction, is really completely inappropriate. However, as I said, as far as I know, there is communication between unionists, employees and banks. Referring to the information available to the public, I would like to say that on 3 July PKO BP announced that it had taken a positive decision to accept the possibility of carrying out this transaction. But it's like I say, a difficult, complicated transaction. It's probably not a matter of getting this done in one day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u15	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Today's meeting is attended by a delegation of the Social Development Committee of the People's Assembly of the People's Representatives with the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. He Yiting at the head, who is in Poland at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We cordially welcome our guests. [[Applause]] The additional question is asked by Mrs Halina Rozpondek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The hope that came into the hearts of our residents yesterday, because the steelworks is the most important company in Częstochowa, today, due to the Minister's speech, has completely disappeared. We were convinced about yesterday's agreement, the promise of the president of PKO BP bank, that it is binding, also binding on the Polish government. Let me remind you that the restructuring in 2005 was carried out by the Polish government. So I think that some protection should be given, if not to a private enterprise, to residents, to citizens. Yesterday's talks brought the parties closer to the agreement, but here time plays a key role, because the British investor only gave time until August 10th. We therefore very much want the Ministry to take the patronage into account, give a precise date for the meeting of these three entities and continue to observe until the agreement is finalised.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Niebżak again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Here's what I'm gonna say: I'm a lawyer. No comment I make at this point has any effect on the bank's legal obligations and vice versa. Madam President, I am aware that the public debate has rights, but given the gravity of the situation and the fact that it is indeed a very serious, complicated transaction, a certain restraint would be advisable for all. I can say that, of course, we will be watching and looking at the situation, not only under the influence of these questions, among others. We collect this information, we're interested in it. On the other hand, the owner, now the owner of the steelworks, once again - please remember that banks are not owners but creditors - he is a completely independent entity from beyond our eastern border. Banks are creditors. As far as I know, they're not the only creditors, because there's another foreign creditor. It's extremely complicated... [[But the Swiss bank agreed.]] I don't have that kind of information. Perhaps it is. [[He doesn't know anything about it.]] I'm just answering, so I know something. This is an extremely complicated transaction with a very high risk. Most often, such business situations are said to require peace, thought and silence, not rephrase, let's say to ourselves, some statements. That's all I'm calling for. Of course, we are looking at this situation and monitoring it as far as possible, which gives us the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Waldemar Andzel, Urszula Rusecka, Andrzej Gawron and Anna April from the Law and Justice Club. This is a question about the criteria that will apply to the payment of the benefit to the first child. The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u20	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The 500+ programme is a groundbreaking support programme for families. In fact, practically billions of zlotys flow to families every year, directly to families that have the opportunity to use this money to serve their children, their families and their development. Since July 1st, there have been changes that expand the program. There's a possibility of applying for this money to be on the first child as well. I would ask the Minister for such up-to-date information as to how many of these proposals have already passed. At the moment, we know that it is possible to submit applications online. What are the criteria, how has it changed when it comes to criteria, because this information is never too much. This is a large program that includes several million children. I would also ask you to answer the question of when parents might expect if they apply for a payment for the 500+ programme even now, i.e. in July, because in the case of this program it has been in force since July, specific money in the account. I know there's already a commune, they've been feeding the media where the money was paid even on the night or the first day, but it's known to be about the whole country. Does the Minister have such information, or has the money been transferred to local government accounts already? When will practically the money be paid? And here's the question: Does this, when the application is submitted, have an impact on what amount of this money will be paid and when will it be paid? I would ask for such detailed information as to whether you need to hurry or if you can wait a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for that question, because it is absolutely timely. Since 1 July, we have implemented an extended benefit scheme, the Family 500+, i.e. benefits in the amount of 500 PLN per child. I think it is worth reminding here that this is practically the first programme in the history of our country, which helps Polish families in such a direct way. For us, the Government of Law and Justice, for the Government of the United Right, this was the most important commitment that we have made to our fellow countrymen and that we are consistently fulfilling. So far, the programme has been universal, more than 52%. Children, 1600 thousand. children benefited from this programme either without an income criterion, where there was a second, third child, or taking into account an income criterion with the first child. Today the income criterion no longer applies, i.e. all children up to the age of 18 are entitled to this benefit. Also, all children who are in other institutions, in foster care, in care centres, or in welfare homes - these children are also covered by the programme. A total of 6800 thousand. The children will benefit from this program. On 1 July the extended programme entered into force. From 1 July we can submit applications by electronic means, from 1 August - by paper. And this period, this first period for those who apply for the first time, is 23 months, until the end of May 2021, and for those of the old hand for which this period is still in place until the end of September, that is a little shorter. So on the one hand, we have an extended period, but on the other hand we will introduce a very good solution, which also worked out with a good start, i.e. with a school expedition. The point is that there is no administrative decision by local governments today, but there is information. As for those who submit applications by electronic means, the information goes to their e-mail mailboxes. If someone wants it in a paper version, they can of course go to the office that pays these benefits, and these are, I will remind you, in the offices of GOPS municipalities or ILOS, or other institutions that pay these benefits. This simplification has also led to a very short examination cycle. The proposal is also very simple, it has two pages on which we only write basic data about children. There is no longer an income criterion, i.e. there is no need to check the income of these families, and this has made it much easier to deal with these applications, but has also helped local governments in the sense that this speed of action is already much higher. These are the changes we've made. We have also made some other important changes, e.g. at birth a mother or parents have a period of three months to submit an application. So we also extend this period so that there is no such situation as sometimes, that someone did not have time to submit an application. Also, in a tragic situation where one parent dies, another parent is entitled to this benefit, another parent is no longer required to submit another application. These are the changes that have significantly facilitated the examination of these proposals. It is also worth recalling here that the aim of our programme was three things: investment in the family, and that is, I think, the widest formula, the issue of demographics and the issue of combating poverty. Poverty indicators. More than half fell, poverty rates among children decreased: from 9.7% Up to 4.7%. When we talk about the fertility rate, in 2015, the fertility rate was 1.29, i.e. 129 children were born out of 100 birthing mothers. In 2018 this indicator is already at 1.45, i.e. 145 children were born out of 100 mothers, which means we have an increase in the fertility rate. And an investment in human capital. More than 71 billion zlotys have already been sent to Polish families in the framework of this edition of the 500+ family programme, and these are funds that go directly to the families. Now, after the extension of the programme, the 500+ family will additionally receive PLN 10 billion this year, i.e. the total cost of the programme in 2019 will be PLN 31 billion, in 2020 - PLN 41 billion. Thanks to the fact that we have a very good economic situation - issues related to the sealing of tax systems - we have a chance to implement this programme so that others can benefit from it. And now what you asked about the implementation. We can say today that at the moment, 1320 thousand have been received by electronic means. We could add over 685 000 to the conclusions of the 500+ programme. the conclusions of the "Good start" programme, i.e. the school expedition, i.e. more than 2 million applications have been received in total since 1 July. In such a short period, this is an excellent result. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's what we're really excited about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u23	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this data, especially this latest information - 2 million applications within 2 days that is really impressive, how successful and interesting this program is and how attractive it is. This is certainly a groundbreaking historical program, which has not yet been in our country. However, the programme has been operational for over 3 years. I'm sure you've already got the data at the Ministry... When the programme was introduced, one of the opposition's concerns was that these measures would be wasted, that they would not be spent according to the idea. I'd like to know what it looks like in the statistics. How many families, such as local governments, are monitoring this, and have these predictions of the opposition worked out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u25	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Stanisław Szwed, is again responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I answer that question, I will finish the first thought, because the Member asked about the rate of payment of benefits. I think it's worth talking about, too. I think we were all surprised that the first payouts from the 500+ program were already made at night. The local authorities, so to speak, also somehow competed a little among themselves about who would be the first when it comes to paying benefits, and the first transfer was made at 2:00 a.m. 2 hours after the start of the program in one of the municipalities in the Lower Silesian voivodeship it has already been paid. At the moment, we have information that more than 100,000 already. notifications went to the families that the benefit had been granted. And these funds are gradually transferred. The funds are in accounts in individual municipalities, the voivodships transfer them in tranches, so that there is no danger. The Act states that within 3 months the payment of funds may take place, i.e. that if someone lodges an application in July, August, September, the payments of these benefits are made from 1 July, so there is no risk as to the payment of these funds. But, of course, if someone lodges an application earlier, they have a chance to pay those benefits earlier. And certainly those who apply in July will mostly have those benefits paid in July. So that is also, I think, an important element when it comes to the implementation of the programme. And that's what we're happy about. From this point of view, it is also necessary to thank the local authorities, who are the developers of this programme, because the efficiency of their operation, the payment of benefits shows that they have taken these tasks very seriously. It is also about institutions that support this even electronically, i.e. all banking institutions, the program of our Ministry of Emp@tia and the electronic program of ZUS-owski. As far as the question is concerned, of course these forecasts have not been confirmed at all. Today, this data shows that we have 0.04%. families, benefits that are paid in kind. It is such a case that the municipality checked the situation of the family concerned and it turned out that these funds could not have been intended for the purpose for which they should have. 0.04% that is about 1300 benefits paid in kind per month. So absolutely these figures do not confirm that the funds will be wasted, on the contrary, families are very good at implementing the program, they know what to use it for. These funds go to additional education, material support, but they also go - now we have a vacation period - for holiday trips or during winter holidays. So that here it is absolutely satisfactory for us right now that the issue of the allocation of paid funds lies with the family and families doing well [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the implementation of this programme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Paweł Skutecki from the Kukiz club15 asks a question about the death of 11-month-old Szymon in the hospital at ul. Nieklańska in Warsaw. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 18 June this year at the hospital on ul. The death of 11-year-old Simon was found in Nieklańska, which was separated from the apparatus. He's been in this hospital for almost six months. According to my information, there are currently three prosecutorial proceedings in this case in various aspects of the case. I would not like to, because it would be inappropriate for us to discuss the details of these proceedings. On the other hand, this situation has upset the public so much that there have been very serious questions that the government has not yet answered. I'd like to hear those answers from the Minister today. First of all, the boy's parents were prevented from saying goodbye. They've been tricked. The parents were invited to the hospital half an hour after the boy had already been disconnected from the apparatus. Doesn't the Minister think that this aspect should be regulated in some way so that such situations will no longer occur in the future? Minister! Is the government planning a debate on the topic of the so-called. brain death, which many doctors and specialists, e.g. Professor Talar, very well-known, recognizes as one of the greatest medical myths of modern times? Shouldn't there be some discussion on this? Finally, Minister, in Polish almost nothing is normalized something called persistent therapy, and semantically it is a matter very close to the issue of euthanasia, taking a life. Is the Ministry planning any legal regulation in the so-called case. Insistent therapy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cieszyński corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u30	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. Above all, however, it is worth noting that the issues we are talking about today, which are the subject of these questions, are already regulated in the legislation today. Art. 43 The Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentists clearly states how the doctor determines the determination of death, and in the matter of stating the so-called. brain death is a framework guidelines for conduct that clearly indicate how this should be done. It is worth not getting into the details, to indicate that the qualification procedure is two steps. The first step is to raise suspicion of brain death, and the second step is to perform tests to confirm this death. It's always done with a whole team of doctors. And here there's no way to leave these cases to chance in any way. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a question that has in some ways been raised, namely the issue of this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, we are dealing with the exploitation of the child's tragedy for political purposes. In this case, the most important thing is that there was a tragedy, an 11-month-old child died. Ladies and gentlemen, it died after almost six months of battle, which was fought by doctors, nurses, hospital staff at ul. It's not ticky. Experts from the Ministry of Health and national consultants specialising in many areas have been involved in this process from the very beginning. Mr Pinkas was also among them. We've given all the support we can when we're treating this baby. The patient's spokesperson was also involved in these activities because it was not only about the treatment of little Simonek but also about supporting his parents. Ladies and gentlemen! How did this case end? It's worth talking about the facts. As soon as a media report on this issue was made available, the Ministry of Health ordered an urgent check-up. The next day she was already in the hospital. In addition to the best controllers from the Ministry of Health, experts from the Children's Health Center also participated in this inspection - it was a combination of the best controllers and the best specialists. Of course, those who had participated in therapy in any way were excluded from the check to rule out any suspicion of bias. As you all know, there is absolutely no way to discuss the details of this check and discuss the details of the patient. These are the most intimate things about the lives of each of us, the lives of the family, which is why it's impossible to talk about. This check has not yet been completed, but it is worth mentioning what has already been established. Ladies and gentlemen, the following events took place in the course of this case: firstly, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Member of the Sejm, entered the hospital's intensive care unit at ul. Nieklańska, in breach of hospital regulations, and secondly, there were criminal threats against the staff - at the address of the chief, there were threats against the images of the gallows, the chief nurse was threatened by burning her hair, and 57 threats were received by e-mail to the hospital, which were secured by the police. There were statements in the e-mails: murderers, Nazis, Dr. Mengele's methods. There have been dozens of threatening calls. The director of the hospital's car was destroyed. All these things met medical personnel who really spent a few months in a heroic battle to give all possible help to Simon himself and his parents, according to the latest medical knowledge. I would like to sum it all up and say that such statements, together with completely unauthorized suggestions that this situation is related to vaccinations, is a very bad situation in our view. Firstly, it does not serve patients, and secondly, it does not serve medical personnel, especially those who have been involved in the rescue of life and health of the young patient for nearly 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Would you like to ask an additional question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u32	I don't know, Mr. Marshal, if it's an additional question or a corrigendum. Minister! How can you say such things? I'm skipping any insinuations about trespassing and so on. Minister, I ask you to give a clear, brief answer to the question of whether an unwanted vaccination reaction has been reported in connection with this boy's case. Yes or no? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u33	Thank you very much. Enjoying the break, I would like to warmly welcome the participating tour from the environmental social home in Tomaszowice at the gallery. We're very pleased to see you. And now again, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Health, Mr Janusz Cieszyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! As I mentioned in my previous statement - it seems to me that this should be obvious to all of us, because many of us are patients, members of our families are patients - Mr President, we will not give any information about the health and life of this particular patient. We will not provide information about the procedures that have been carried out. We will not satisfy your curiosity about what happened to your 11-month-old child. These are very intimate matters that remain to the sole knowledge of doctors and the patient's family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u35	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Mirosław Maliszewski, Mieczysław Kasprzak, Jan Łopata and Krzysztof Paszyk ask a question about water scarcity. The question is asked by Mr Jan Łopata. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Once again, we are asking the question, with the problem that we have been talking about in the last few weeks and which unfortunately is growing. Among the effects of climate warming mentioned, water shortages in Poland are increasingly indicated. The long-term droughts that occur here have shown that there are systemic deficiencies and water shortages in the lens. Organizations alarm that if we do not change the way we use water resources, by 2025 - it can be said that in a moment - half of the people in the world will live in areas affected by the deficit of this basic raw material. It should be remembered that Poland is one of the countries that have one of the smallest water resources in Europe. Based on the calculations and the available data, this is an average of 1 000. m3 per capita water per year - this means reaching the water deficit threshold. The government's report on the 2030 Green Policy, notabene a good document, confirms what experts are talking about and what I am talking about right now. The situation is tragic, and more and more water is missing also in taps in Poles, as well as in every sphere of production. The problems concern mainly agriculture, but also energy or industry. Agriculture is particularly affected by the government's lack of activity in the melioration or retention system. If long-term rains do not fall in the near future, the drought will kill Polish agriculture. This is how we defined the situation: it will kill Polish agriculture. Therefore, we have asked this series of questions and we ask you very much for an answer. When will the construction of small retention tanks begin? And second question. Many ponds within farms were dug up years ago when water permits were not required. What should we do now to make legal use of them? What's the legalization procedure? How will be charged for the use of water extracted from such ponds [[♪ The bell ♪]] and how can farmers benefit from the drought? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, answers the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. Indeed, it concerns a serious issue: how to manage water, which is less and less. That's not the problem that came up this year or, as you're suggesting, in the last three years. You're talking about systemic deficiencies in melioration and retention systems, so I understand that there's a hit in the chest also for years when you were responsible in Poland and central and regional for water management. If that's the way you feel about it, and it's actually admitting that you've been neglecting many years, thank you, because we're actually trying to fix what's been neglected over the years. Also, the melioration system, very often badly performed, which only served dehydration rather than water retention - I am talking about open systems and closed systems - needs to be repaired. The data on the availability of water that you refer to is generally correct, although it seems to me that when it comes to referring to, for example, water. to the data of the institution, which is mentioned in the text, which includes, inter alia, it was one of the organisations which made it very difficult to combat African swine fever in Poland, on which one of your fellow agricultural ministers died, I would prefer not to rely on this data. [[Talk about action.]] You point to the dramatic situation in the Łódź voivodship in writing. I want to tell you that rainfall below 300 mm - not 400 mm - has been present for many years on the most fertile soils in Poland in the area of southern Kujaw. So this problem has been present for a long time and nothing has been done in this matter over the years. We are trying to solve this problem and I will quickly present what actions we have taken. Since August - I hope there will be no delay, and if it occurs, maybe in a very short time - we are launching a programme to finance investments related to irrigation in agricultural holdings. This will apply to the implementation of new irrigation, including the taking of water from groundwater or surface water, the modernisation of the existing irrigation system, possibly with the modernisation of water treatment and the modernisation of the irrigation system with an enlargement of the area. The point is that farmers who grow very intense plants in particular should be given the possibility of hydration, although I realise that it is very important not only to supply water, but also to increase the absorption and water capacity of soils in Poland. It's about actions that are designed to increase the sorption complex. E.g. launched since August a large program of soil liming in Poland, which will also serve to stop water. We will co-finance this under this programme from the RDPs - there have been transfers in the RDPs - the refund will cover up to 50% of the eligible costs and, for young farmers, up to 60%, as for other mechanisms that were introduced years ago. As far as existing solid water tanks are concerned, as you call them - these are water tanks in the sense of Water Law - where no water law permit was required to build a given device, it is not necessary to legalise it. If someone wants to expand this reservoir, they need to see if it's in conflict with the applicable law. I will also give you a written reply, because there are many details that cannot be contained in a short speech. The issue of water charging was decided several years ago by the Water Law Act. The delay in the implementation of this law resulting from fear of even introducing symbolic water charges caused Poland to be threatened by huge penalties and the loss of several billion zlotys of EU money. I will remind you that for water with a capacity of up to 5 m3 per day for agricultural purposes and for the supply of water for humans and animals, there are no charges. If we multiply it by 365 days a year, because it's averaged, that's 18 grand. m3 water - and there are no fees, the farmer pays for nothing. If it wants to use water for other purposes, then in the case of surface waters it pays 5 gr for 1 m3, in the case of groundwater - 10 gr for 1 m3, in the case of irrigation - 15 gr for 1 m3. But I would like to remind you that the collection of surface water for agricultural irrigation is exempt from any charges, also there are no fixed charges. The rates that are currently in force are lower than in the past years, so these are absolutely symbolic rates for farmers who will decide to use groundwater. It's a drought case. Voivodeships have been instructed to start estimating in those municipalities which are included in the climate balance conducted by IUNG in Puławy, and to hurry with this, because the last report indicates that in several voivodships, as far as some plants are concerned, there is drought. The harvest is coming, and the point is to estimate it. The aid will be granted to farmers. The issue of repairing existing drainage systems. You asked me when the government's programme for the development of water melioration will be put in place. First, we need to repair what exists, what has been devastated, also for years of neglect. This is about support for water companies provided for in the RDP budget. EUR 50 million has been allocated for this purpose. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We increased the funding of a single water company or association of companies from 500,000. Up to 1 million. I would also like to inform you that the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation is preparing a very large, massive programme that will be implemented from next year and financed from a new perspective. This programme includes the construction of both very large tanks, which will be used for agricultural purposes in rural areas, as well as for activities related to less retention, i.e. improving soil retention, the implementation and restoration of breeding joints, restoring, giving irrigation functions to drainage systems, i.e. the introduction of all the changes that should have been made for years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Jan Łopata will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u40	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Contrary to appearances, you didn't disappoint me. As I expected, they were guilty of their predecessors. You've spent half your time criticizing your predecessors, and I didn't write anywhere, nor did I say that this problem was created or created in the last three years. What's the point of betting or 400 l in Łódź or 300 l in Kujawski? That's not what this is about. Is there a problem? There it is. You're right. You're right. You've confirmed that the problem is. I think this is one of the many topics that we should all lean on, because the problem of water deficit in Poland, and not only in Poland, is increasing. And it would be good if we talked and didn't bid, just talk about problems and programs and support each other. I think so. Thank you for providing the latest information on the RDPs and aid schemes for the drainage system. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u41	Thank you very much. There were no questions, but I understand the Minister wants to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u42	Very briefly. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Yeah, I'm hoping for support in fixing what's been neglected for years. You're talking about systemic deficiencies, you're talking about the government bragging that we need to act immediately, not wait two years. We won't wait for two years. In August the farm programme will be launched, financed from the next perspective, because you, although the drought occurred earlier, did not plan this earlier. From the next perspective, a very large retention programme will be implemented for which several billion zlotys will be allocated. This is the start of a certain process of water management, a process that should be started much, much earlier. If that were the case, the effects would be visible by now. We are starting what should have been started a long time ago. Indeed, you're right. I'm counting on your help and your formation as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u43	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Lech Kołakowski and Piotr Pole from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask questions about providing additional support and development opportunities for small and medium-sized farms. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Lech Kołakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Rural Development Programme is one of the most important support instruments to be used by Polish villagers. Financial assistance is intended primarily to help develop farms, modernise farms, restructure small farms, allocate bonuses to young farmers, pay to farmers transferring small farms. The total public funding earmarked for the implementation of the RDPs in 2014 and 2020 will amount to EUR 13.6 billion. The information provided by the villagers shows that the funds allocated to financial assistance to farmers mainly go to large farms. Many of them have benefited from such aid many times, which has enabled them to develop dynamically. The situation of small and medium-sized farms which dominate Poland, including the Podlaskie Voivodeship, which I represent, is different. For years, our region has been facing problems of emigration, which affects young people in particular, and an ageing population. Immediate action is needed to prevent depopulation of the region. Poland is one of the strongest countries in Europe in terms of agriculture. The region of Podlasie with its uncontaminated environment should become the strongest region of family and organic farming in Poland and Europe. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to provide systematic support to small and medium-sized family farms. Questions: What will the Ministry take to support small and medium-sized farms in Poland in the coming years in terms of development aid and increase production opportunities in these farms? What measures can small and medium-sized farms benefit from, and what changes are proposed by the Ministry in the next financial perspective? What preferences for farms that have not yet benefited from support for development aid are the Ministry planning to introduce? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to thank the Minister and the Government for their support for the Polish village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u45	Thank you very much, sir. You answer the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. Moreover, it falls within a broader context concerning support in Poland also of smaller and medium-sized farms, important not only for economic reasons, food production or non-food raw materials, but also for maintaining the social and economic viability of rural areas. The role of these farms is not to be overestimated, because whether such farms, by obtaining part of their income from agricultural production, some from other sources will probably exist, will also depend on maintaining the viability, maintaining public services, in general the existence of these towns. Errors related to the elimination of fragmented agriculture, e.g. in Spain, caused millions of people to move to large cities, to the metropolis and depopulation, to desert the Spanish province. We don't want to make that mistake. The departure from our predecessors' polarisation and diffusion programme for sustainable development is precisely this rational action to strengthen areas outside the big cities. There is no simple definition of what a small and large farm is. The economic size criterion can be applied: up to 13 000. Euros. It doesn't reflect... It is a little mechanical to set a certain limit on the availability of resources for one or the other group of farms. Small or medium-sized farms are undefined. They benefit from all forms of support. It is primarily the Rural Development Programme. I have data on 16 June, i.e. 2 weeks ago: 4.5 million aid applications were submitted for 42 billion PLN, 53% are contracted the budget available. Further recruitments are ongoing, and further recruitments will also be carried out. It's what different farms use. We have also introduced - and the predecessor has already introduced it, and very well, we continue to do so - we are developing a bonus for restructuring small farms with a potential of up to 13 thousand. The euro as part of support called: Restructuring of small farms. We have simplified the terms of this programme. Changes to the threshold were applied in 2019 which will be relevant for the development of agriculture and rural areas and will be crucial for smaller farms. As part of the modernisation of farms, we have introduced the possibility to implement investments in irrigation. That goes with the last question. Also allow support for the purchase of agricultural machinery in connection with the implementation of construction investments in the field of animal production development, additional form of aid in the form of bank guarantees. Abolition of the KRUS insurance obligation before the date of application for support. It was a certain procedure maybe safe, but quite illogical. Small farms are usually two-professional farms. Someone in the family, often also the farmer's farmkeeper, must earn in other places of work, because this farm does not provide enough money for a decent family maintenance, and in connection with taking up work in other entities it was necessary to fall out of KRUS insurance for the benefit of ZUS insurance. So we separated the possibility of providing assistance - regardless of what form of social security the farmer uses. We raised the bonus for young farmers to 150,000. zł. This is the form used by all types of farms, including smaller farms. In fact, a dedicated activity, primarily for smaller farms, which is intended to enable sales to be carried out, to market products produced on a relatively small scale on farms, is the rapid development and creation of appropriate legislation for agricultural retail trade, direct sales, also the development of small raw material plants of animal origin in the context of small, local and limited production. It's developing a lot, mostly small farms are doing it. At the moment, when it comes to agricultural retail trade, i.e. processed products on farms, it is already around 4.5 thousand. holdings; in terms of direct sales, the one that does not require processing is around 11 000. holdings; ca. 3 000 small-scale production within MOL. We also introduced a bonus to start off non-agricultural activities. This is also dedicated primarily to smaller farms. The amount of the premium has been increased in the case of the employment of one person, including self-employment, to 150 000, 200 000. - in the case of employment of two persons, 250 000. - in the case of employment of three or more persons. This is also an incentive to develop entrepreneurship and a certain resourcefulness. It is about non-agricultural development - not only about this small farm - forms of support. New perspective. Yes, we are very careful to ensure that these smaller farms in Poland have the right position and in the chain from field to table, but also that they are dedicated to separate, especially beneficial forms of support, because we want these farms just to maintain. It's not just that, I'll say it again, for reasons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] production, but also in relation to the social and economic development of rural areas. The national strategic plan for 20212027 is being prepared. This plan is also being agreed with the European Commission. I encourage Members to take a detailed look at this plan. Also, the 2030 strategy for sustainable development of agriculture, rural areas and fisheries includes whole paragraphs dedicated to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski: ...smaller farms. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. A further question is asked by Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u48	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister practically referred to all topics that relate to support for small and medium-sized farms in Poland. I would like to ask you, Minister, because at one of the meetings with farmers, I believe in Kadzidle, this subject has been discussed in quite detail, just the topic of direct sales that you spoke about. Farmers produce food from their own farming, process it and these products are sold, a distance of up to 50 or 100 km. It was announced to support such production. Or is there a strategy in this area already being worked out? It is also important what the Minister spoke about in his final speech. Is there also a strategy in the near future for more resources to be made available to small and medium-sized farms? Because we know that the big ones are already able to make excellent use of EU, European funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more question about...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u49	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u50	...low commodity farms. Are there gonna be new calls this year? 'Cause there's already been two.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u51	Thank you very much. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u52	Mr. Marshal, very briefly. Mr President, agricultural trade seems to have the greatest facilitations in Europe at the moment. I don't know what else to improve in this trade. Everything that grows on the farm can be easily processed by the farmer without having to build a separate factory or production space - symbolically, so to speak, in the kitchen where the hostess prepares food for those he loves the most for his family. The solutions are simple, do not require permission or permission from the district veterinarian or health inspector. Of course, the controls will be, and I will be the first to stop food from going to the market without control. There's no jokes with food, which is why the minimum level of control... First of all, cleanliness and rules for the storage of spoilable products will be controlled. But the solutions are very mild, liberal. Tax-free amount - up to 40 thousand. zł. In the case of revenues above 40 000. PLN is more about keeping records than about tax, because they are subject to a 2% sales tax, and this is not a large tax. We have extended the possibility of selling - here was the concern whether the European Commission would approve it - not only for sale to the final consumer, but also for sale to restaurants, diners, agrotourism farms, shops. The limitation is the regionalisation of the fact that this local store is selling in the district and neighbouring districts. But this is a big area. I do not think that these products, produced on a relatively small scale, have to be subject to long distribution chains and circulate around the world. They're supposed to hit the local markets. This record is absolutely sufficient, and it is also extended by the fact that in the context of various kinds of socio-cultural events, festivals, shows it can take place throughout Poland. Seems like a good thing. We also support this financially. The first call, such a polling, took place in February. It came in, I don't remember, about 500 people willing to use the support. That's 100,000. PLN per project, and in the case of MOL - 500 thousand. PLN per enterprise. These applications are currently being processed at the agency. We'll do it again because there's still some money left in August, September. It's hard for me to talk about a precise deadline here, but the calls will be repeated. In support of agricultural retail, direct sales and MOL, we will also be looking for money outside the amount that we currently have at our disposal. The focus on support for smaller farms is based on government policy, law and justice policy. It is also implemented in concrete actions. I mentioned the last time I asked you about the big show. [[♪ The bell ♪]] liming. There we introduced greater gratifications for smaller farms than for larger ones, so this support is present. Be calm, sir. With all these new strategies, the strategic plans for the new financial perspective will be the most preferred beneficiaries for small farms. There is a deep conviction of Law and Justice that it serves the Polish village well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u53	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, Monika Rosa, Ewa Lieder and Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Platform Club, on a new list of medicines reimbursed. The first question is asked by Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The patient must not be in the balance sheet, the doctor - the accountant, and the hospital - the company. Every Polish citizen should feel safe when he needs medical help. He has to know that this help will be given to him quickly, that he will be safe and that it will be free of charge. The state is supposed to take care of people's health, not create inhuman procedures. You've got to stop being so shy. Whose words are those? These are the statements of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. It's been four years. People die in SORs, county hospitals are on the verge of financial bankruptcy. Every now and then, we hear about closed hospitals. There were no longer than today's doctor queues in history, and a new list of medicines reimbursed is a list of your disgrace, because many sick people are doomed to death and suffering. In particular, EB patients are in a difficult situation. This disease affects dozens of people across Poland; several of them are children. EB causes exfoliation of the epidermis and unusual pain from the slightest touch. There are dressings that work so gently that they can be changed without further peeling of the epidermis. These dressings cost 372 PLN per month in 2015. In your day, in the days of the PiS, they cost 4,000. zł to cost 6 thousand for the last few days. PLN per month. Is this how caring the country looks? It's condemning the sick to cruel suffering. In a dramatic situation, there are also people with rare Fabry disease, 220 thousand. patients with diabetes mellitus, advanced colorectal cancer and breast cancer. Without access to the nutritional preparation, they were suffering from cystic fibrosis. Is this the priority of your government, the PiS government? Is this the good change? You spend billions on lying and manipulating television, back in the day, public. You spend millions on limousines with refrigerators and [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a TV. Where is the patient's safety and where is the patient in need? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u55	The answer is given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Maciej Miłkowski. Welcome to the gallery of the Sołtys from the municipality of Dobroń, the district of Pabianicki. We would like to welcome you all very warmly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u56	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your questions. They covered the whole health care system, not only the list of medicines reimbursed, but I will focus on the responses to the list of medicines reimbursed. A lot of things you've presented aren't true. For example, what you've presented in terms of access to drugs for patients awaiting treatment for colorectal cancer. In fact, there are two drugs missing from the refunded list for patients with colon cancer: Avastin and Erbitux. The methodology for creating a list of refunded medicines is that all medicines appear in the project, for which it is fully agreed with the manufacturer and for which there is no controversy as to their inclusion in the final list. These drugs have not yet been approved at that time, and therefore they could not appear on the refunded list. Recent negotiations have been ongoing as these medicines have not yet been approved by the Economic Commission, they have had continuation renewals and there has been no price compatibility. As a result, negotiations, arrangements between the Minister and these companies were still ongoing. [[Third and fourth line of treatment, Minister.]] Both drugs are still on the refund list. When it comes to diabetes-related medications, gliclazide was renewed. It is one of several medicines that are used in this area, as it were in the form of gliclazides. In fact, the price was not agreed, and therefore no extension took place. [[Twenty-two thousand. patients.]] The price of this medicine that worked... the patient's supplement was three times the price of the cheapest equivalent and by more than 50% higher than the next most expensive equivalent. Companies, negotiating, talk very often, because there is a common limit group and it is the patient who pays extra that the patient does not care that he can pay more and more that the patient wants to add to the medications, the patient wants to pay a lot more. We disagree with this and negotiate also on behalf of the patient - not as companies want, but on behalf of the NFZ, but also on behalf of the patient. Therefore, we reduce the prices for the patient. And in most cases, in the last lists of medicines reimbursed, prices decreased for the patient rather than for the NFZ, as prices did not fall and the patient's payment fell. Therefore, it is practically the only drug that fell off the list of medicines refunded when it comes to the current list, but there is a full range of equivalents, it is continued. As regards the extension of the indications for patients resistant to prostate cancer, one medicine is currently being used, which was covered by an extended indication nearly 2 years ago. [[Just not everyone reacts to him. Do you know that?]] And we have a second drug that has identical indications and a price almost twice as high up to now as what it is. We cannot, with identical indications, take the medicine at a significantly higher price with the same range. In fact, in the last 2 months I met with representatives of the company, we agreed on a price. The maximum period of introduction of the second product will be, I think, after the end of the period associated with the first medicine. The previous drug is covered by the decision for the period until 30 October, i.e., I think, at the latest from 1 November will be fully indicated both medicines used and will fully compete with each other. There are negotiations with the company. We can't do the same therapy. significantly more expensive to pay just because we like the company. These are the same indications. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[But the patients aren't responding.]] As far as EB dressings are concerned, this is a very important element. I'm the one who's gonna have to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u58	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry's representatives often say that changes in the refunded list are no problem - and you also said that - because patients can use biosimilar drugs or substitutes. However, switching to other medicines with similar effects may have a negative effect on the patient's body. Therefore, the question arises as to what criteria the Minister is guided by deciding who patients are to risk worsening their health when changing the medicine. And the current reimbursement policy - I would call it cruel, because every three months it raises great anxiety and even panic in patients who may expect their drug to be or not be on this list. Every 3 months - for older people, ladies and gentlemen, this is a really great concern. I'm watching my mom read those letters, and it's really cruel. Do you have plans to change and make a more stable one? [[♪ The bell ♪]] decisions on the refunded drugs? I just wanted to finish by asking...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u60	...about Euthyrox, who is missing from the market. Please respond in writing to the Minister in the case of Euthyrox, which is missing from the market, especially in children's doses.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u61	As far as biosimilars are concerned, they are a great opportunity for patients because they enter the market at significantly lower prices. We have recently seen savings on the original drug of biosimilar adalimumab - prices are more than eight times lower than they have been so far. This can significantly expand the population using them. In the case of medicines, a decision is given for 2 or 3 years depending on the type of medicine, and they are therefore for quite a long time. When it comes to switching patients from one medicine to another, this is a common practice. Your doctor is responsible for your treatment and your doctor determines how you respond to it. When it comes to substitution of biosimilars, all the tests show that they're equivalent. Patients react to this medicine the same way and can therefore be switched. As far as patients who receive one and the same medicine are concerned, their doctor is required, in particular as part of the medicine, to monitor the condition of the patient, and if the medicine is not tolerated there are other lines and it is possible to change the medicine. As far as Euthyrox is concerned, we have a meeting with the producer tomorrow and we'll get full information about the availability of this drug. The problem with its availability is worldwide and we are trying to monitor it. Recently, due to various perturbations, especially in China, we have problems with the availability of drugs at all. We always monitor it and meet with producers to explain on a regular basis what changes they are planning. That's the case, in this case. [[But there's panic. It's been a month and a half, Minister. Really, focus on it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u62	Madam, you have already had time to ask questions. Please don't disturb me. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: The answer received from the pharmaceutical company will be given in writing. We don't make drugs. We buy drugs. Therefore, if there is a problem with their availability throughout the European market, we cannot become a producer. As far as EB dressings are concerned, as I have not yet answered this question, with regard to the pricing procedure, this procedure has not changed since the start of the refund law. But in fact, since July 1st, it's decreased. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the basis of limits, which is why patients pay for some dressings. I will be meeting with all the family representatives when it comes to these companies, because not only dressings are the main problem, but also other unrefundable medical devices. The National Health Fund has created an additional program... Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: ...for the free release of medical devices for patients. [[Monika Wielichowska shows a picture of a little girl on her tablet]] I know her, and I'm going to meet her. I'm gonna be seeing these patients... [[That's what you sentenced the kids to EB.]] Madam, please don't disturb me. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: I met these kids two years ago, and I'm gonna continue. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Members Anna Czech, Marek Polak, Józef Hrynkiewicz and Ewa Filipiak from the Law and Justice Club on the procedure for placing medicines on the list of medicines reimbursed. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u63	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In practice, the administration of a health care facility, as well as during the current parliamentary work of both our own and colleagues, we meet patients requiring treatment with certain medicines that cannot be used, even with the support of loved ones. I ask the Minister to ask him for a procedure for the inclusion of medicines on the list of medicines reimbursed for two groups of patients. When it comes to breast cancer patients, the choice of therapy for a particular person is related to the sub-type of breast cancer it has developed. In the case of a group of patients diagnosed with advanced hormone-dependent breast cancer (HER2-) the latest studies indicate the high value of new medicines that are currently unavailable to our Polish patients due to the lack of refunds. I'm talking about registered and reimbursed therapy in other countries, which gives the possibility of a significant extension of life. These are CDK 4/6 inhibitors. For this group of patients I am talking about, the European Medicines Agency has allowed three treatments to be used. None of them are refunded in Poland. In November, Palocyclib was registered and in August 2017 Ribocyclib, which is much more effective than standard chemo or hormone therapy. In fact, the addition of these CDK 4/6 inhibitors should be considered as a breakthrough in the treatment of patients. Appreciating the Ministry's efforts to treat breast cancer comprehensively and to introduce this regulation, I ask whether these innovative medicines can be made available during treatment. These medicines cause a significant increase in life, and the patients are very eager to return to their professional and social activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u65	Thank you for asking. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Marshal, As far as these two groups of patients are concerned, we are currently using nine medicines, including three with international names, to treat breast cancer. This is Lapatinib, Pertuzumab and Trastuzumab. It should be noted that trastuzumab has two routes of administration: intravenous and subcutaneous. In the case of an intravenous route, the exclusive period ended and last year, the first biosimilar medicine was introduced from 1 July. Currently since 1 July this year. Two more medicines have been included in the refund for Trastuzumab intravenous and another is expected to be covered by the refund, which is likely to take place from 1 September. There is therefore full availability in this respect. The original intravenous drug has also not been agreed and has been withdrawn from the list of refunded medicines. We talked to the producer. He concluded that, in view of the full availability of biosimilars, he withdrew his product from the refund so as not to compete with biosimilars. This is the drug policy of original companies, which is very important, which focuses mainly on medicines, offering patients the most modern treatments. At a time when biosimilars are fully available, they are withdrawing from these markets. As far as patients with HER are concerned, there are currently medicines called Palbociclib in two indications in the first and second lines of treatment and Kisqali in the first line of treatment. There have been negotiations with the Economic Commission which have been concluded. Both drugs received a negative assessment from the Economic Commission. They also received a negative assessment of the president of the medical technology assessment agency. At the same time, there have been reports recently that they prolong life and prolong the time of progression. Since 1 July, the price of the main medicine taken by patients with positive breast cancer has fallen significantly. Therefore, there have been some savings that allow the negotiation of a very broad indication for patients with HER negative. We try to talk about all the therapeutic options available at a given time when it comes to different stages of treatment, we always do this in the case of negotiations, talk about the entire available palette of possibilities. Therefore, we will also be discussing trastuzumab emtansine (Cadcyla) and the extended preoperative indication of Perjeta. We wait, in six months there will be another two indications. It is about Abemiclib and the extended indications of Kisqali. I hope that from 1 September at least some of the medicines will be refunded in this indication because of the savings that have taken place, and I must say that these savings are large, about 80 million per year. In most cases, they can finance additional therapies. As far as gastroenterology and Crohn's disease are concerned, many work is being done on extending the indications and extending the duration of therapy. In a significant amount are medicines that already have equivalents, i.e. Biosimilar medicines such as Adalimumab and Infliximab. For the whole group of medicines, expenditure has been reduced. Therefore, you can think of further innovative medicines, biological medicines. Two medicines are currently being negotiated: Wedolizumab and Ustekinumab. In the case of one of them, negotiations with the Economic Commission have been concluded, a resolution has been adopted. As the price was very high in relation to the assessment of the president of the medical technology assessment agency, a negative decision was taken. The applicant suspended the proceeding. In the case of the second drug, it is already completed, the price negotiations are going in a very good direction. As I said before, we always negotiate with everyone. Most likely now, in July, we will be discussing these two available therapeutic options in both applicants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that at least one of these drugs will appear on the list of medicines refunded from July 1st. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u66	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u67	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I believe that your work and effectiveness will contribute to the fact that these new therapies will be available to the patients as soon as possible. In further detailing the problems of patients with Crohn's disease, I would like to say that these are mainly young people whose course of illness prevents normal functioning, learning, fulfilling dreams. But a person of another age may also get sick. We're talking about these diseases, these therapies. Most patients respond to therapies that are available. But this group, not that big, doesn't respond to these treatments. They are only available for 12 months or 24 months. Patients may return to treatment only if their health deteriorates significantly, but then they are immune to this treatment. That's why there's a need for these biological drugs, two of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that the Minister will also lead to these medicines being available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u69	As I said, these two drugs will be negotiated now during the holiday period. The range of indications of individual therapies is currently consulted with consultants and relevant institutions, i.e. the medical technology assessment agency. I hope that an extension of therapy will be possible. Not more than yesterday I met with patients in this group who applied for these medications. In fact, there is already a lot of availability. These medicines contribute very significantly to improving the situation of patients, to improving the work of these patients. Therefore, we not only spend on the costs of medicines, but also reduce the costs of absenteeism, the costs on the part of the Social Insurance Institution. So it's all the more worth it. Like I said, I think we're close to patients who would qualify for this. It's ok. 400, so it's a minimum group of people. I think we can negotiate that. I must say that negotiations with companies are difficult, but in a very good atmosphere. And as further announcements we extend the indications during this period, in particular the huge extension of the indications we have given to the whole hematoncology. Practically all the drugs that doctors requested, what was missing in Poland, we expanded to the full extent. So that I hope that now in September there will be several further groups fully studied, as well as availability for these patients, as well as it goes among others. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis in this area, as you say. We see that patients, some of them have become immune and need another line of treatment, and now is the moment thanks to the savings that have been made in the recent period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u70	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Andrzej Szlachta and Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska from the Law and Justice Club ask a question about patients' access to the PET positron emission tomography. You are the first to ask Mr Andrzej Noblecht.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u71	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2003 at the Oncology Centre in Bydgoszcz the first positronic tomography centre in Poland was established, in short PET. Positron CT is a specialized system that allows early evaluation of biochemical disorders within the affected organ with an accurate location of lesions. In 2006, the First Government of Law and Justice developed a National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, which provided for the establishment of several PET centres in Poland. In recent years, the number of these centres has increased significantly. According to estimates by independent European experts, the demand for PET surveys in Poland is 70 330 per year and it is estimated that 28 diagnostic centres should be established. Minister! How many such centres currently operate in Poland using PET devices? I know that these centres cover the entire map of Poland, they are in all voivodships. But in which voivodships are the most PET centers? What is the criterion for contracting services for PET devices located in health units? And such a question may already be related to my region, to the capital of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, where there is no PET centre. I wanted to ask: Which voivodship cities in Poland do not yet have emission tomography centres?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u73	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to the diagnosis of PET, this is one of the very important, very fast-growing technologies of diagnosis of patients, the most sensitive technology and the most new. As you said, it has only been available for several years. The initial indications, which were then planned for the first period several years ago, spoke of several centers in the country, 4 and 6 centers in the country, said that this was enough. As of today we have full protection in all voivodships, i.e. also in Podkarpackie voivodship, in Brzozów. There are 26 such devices, availability is good. As far as contracting is concerned, at 12, i.e. benefits separately contracted, i.e. 12 contracts under the basic system of hospital security and 12 separate contracts under separate contracts. Like I said, there's a PET in every voivodeship. The first voivodship in which it was established is the voivodship of Kujawsko-Pomorskie, which has two such devices, and three are in the voivodships: Małopolskie, Mazowieckie and Śląskie. It should be noted that the cost of building PET is very high and that the amount of benefits provided is greatly affected by the cost of this study, and therefore there is no justification for buying many PETs and a small number of benefits in a given entity. The most economically, then, is how the device is used for 12 hours a day. Therefore, the real, real costs for the person who carries out these benefits are the lowest and the costs of the health system are the lowest. Of course, it is important to take into account the availability of what is visible throughout the whole health care system - excluding highly specialised services which are provided in specific centres and do not have to be linked to a given region or to a given voivodeship, and this is justified in terms of the experience of the staff - so most of the benefits must be regionally distributed. That's what a map of health needs is for. Such a provision is a positron emission tomography, and therefore in each voivodship there should be these benefits and at least one such centre or two. Of course, this benefit is used in particular for diagnostics related to oncology diseases. Therefore, in order to provide comprehensive care, these PET centers are located at the largest oncology centers and are used to determine how to proceed as it is. We have a very diverse number of such benefits per 100,000. insured. The smallest number of such benefits is provided in the Lubuskie voivodship, Podkarpackie is also below the average, while the largest number of them are in the Świętokrzyskie voivodship - many benefits are provided for people outside the voivodship - as well as Lower Silesia and Łódź. That's the data. We've got actually white spots. As far as I know, it is still planned to launch one such centre in Rzeszów, in a large oncology centre in Rzeszów. In fact, the practical security in PETs in the country is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u74	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u75	Dear Marshal, Minister! The local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, supported by the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, makes efforts to install a PET device in Rzeszów, the capital of the Voivodship. The hospital administration prepared special rooms at its own expense so that PET could be installed, the Sejmik of Podkarpackie Voivodeship allocated PLN 2 million to purchase this device. And, Minister, I have this question, question: Can the Ministry of Health provide financial support for this purpose in Rzeszów? Rzeszowski University - I would like to point out that the young university is training young doctors in the medical field, and the establishment in Rzeszów of a positronic emission tomography centre in Clinical Hospital No. 1 would enrich the teaching infrastructure of the University of Rzeszów [[♪ The bell ♪]] and would help to educate students for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u76	Thank you. Mr Maciej Miłkowski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u77	The voivodship marshal from what I know, as you said, secured the funds, part of them, from EU funds, from the regional operational programme. I do not know how the situation continued, I know that in talks with the National Health Fund there was an agreement that another resort in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship is possible to run. As far as the funding from the Ministry of Health is concerned, I do not know whether such a conclusion is possible, because I do not know what the financial situation is regarding the specific identification of such entities. So that I cannot give an answer in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u79	I'm asking you to write this in writing. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u80	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. It concerns the loss of funding opportunities for the Clean Air programme. The first question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u81	High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the situation that's happened in the last few days. Poles were electrified by the shocking news of the risk of losing billions of euros from the future financial perspective to fight smog. In view of the fact that there was information denying this, I would like to ask first of all who actually negotiated on behalf of the Polish Government and who received a letter from Marek Lemaître, Commissioner of the European Commission for Regional Development and Cities and what is the position of the Polish Government vis-à-vis this universal letter. And who really is responsible for these negotiations and the possible risk of losing these funds, because right now we have a situation like in this folk proverb: the blacksmith was guilty, the gypsy was hanged? We would like to know who we are supposed to account for as Poles from how effectively he is seeking European support in the matter of such a serious problem that Poles have, because of which tens of thousands of Poles die each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u82	Thank you. The second part of the question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u83	Minister! Taking advantage of the fact that we are talking about the Clean Air programme, I would like to ask what the current implementation of this programme looks like with regard to the number of applications submitted and the value of the applications accepted for the entire global amount of 103 billion declared for the implementation of this programme. I'm going to the local yard. In the case of the voivodship environmental fund in Opole, only 1/4 of the applications have been examined. Minister! The first conclusions are that people, two earning people with income at national level, are basically not getting funding from this program, and those who declare that they have nothing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they can get from this program as much as the income of one earner at national level. It's some kind of deep glitch. I would ask you to analyze this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Kurtyka, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, answers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u85	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for being able to answer the Members' questions. As far as the clean air programme is concerned, on the basis of the information we have from the national environmental fund, we can say that the programme is developing. As we know, the architecture of this program is based on this institution, but also on voivodship environmental funds. At this point, we have nearly 64,000 complexes. applications for PLN 1.5 billion - that is a significant amount - of which the value of the contracts currently signed amounts to around PLN 300 million. Thus, the number of contracts signed and their value are rapidly increasing. This is, of course, a natural process linked to the fact that the programme has an increasing interest on the part of potential beneficiaries. In response to the questions made by Mr and your fellow Members in the letter, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are dealing with a joint effort here at the level of expert consultations between our government and the European Commission, and with regard to the Catching-up Regions initiative, the main role here is played by the Minister of Infrastructure, I am sorry, Minister for Investment and Development, Minister Kwieciński. It is such a point of contact - it talks with the European Commission. He is also the person who is discussing the future of the allocation of European funds to Poland for the next phase of funding. In a natural way, we are still ahead of the final decision on the size of this allocation. On the other hand, our discussion is taking place from a perspective where we are trying to deal with the whole issue of air quality with one umbrella undertaking. We have a clear demand on our side, a clearly defined goal - a programme for PLN 100 billion. On the other hand, we will now - together with the European Commission, but above all in the context of the judgments on the next financial perspective - determine the level of European funding for this programme. When it comes to optimization of the programme, of course we do this work. In a natural way, it is an undertaking which has a very fundamental, civilizational meaning for our country. It is about combating smog, thermomodernisation, reducing emissions from the municipal and real estate sector by 50% in the 2030 perspective. This is the powerful potential of 3 million homes. We are therefore also considering this and taking advantage of all possible opportunities to discuss how this programme can be optimized. This also applies to the distribution of resources. In this context, we understand that the global bank and its representatives, as far as we know, have been in contact with representatives of local government, banks, companies or potentially interested parties. On the other hand, what we are dealing with today is the fact that the result of the activities carried out was the development of analytical work, which is at this point on our side the subject of an analysis of how we can continue to carry out the work of optimising the distribution of resources. We invited the municipalities to cooperate in the distribution of these measures. We already have 600 municipalities that have come forward as part of a pilot project. We are working to ensure that experience with cooperation with 600 municipalities can be universalized and transferred to a general mechanism of cooperation with local governments. Of course, there are also other opportunities to optimise the way funds are distributed, including the one proposed for commercial banks. So much for me, Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u86	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked again by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u87	Minister! With all due respect, but the multiword will neither multiply the money nor answer the questions of Poles. I'll tell you why this program doesn't work. You say 103 billion. Yes, this is also the European Commission's estimate. That's 10 billion a year. Of these 10 billion - you are boasting 1 billion in terms of 300 contracts - and the gold is not paid. This 1 billion, which is uncertain in the national fund, represents 10% what should be spent. That's why this program doesn't work - you don't have the money for it. You're doing everything you can to create barriers because it's a huge fiction. It's not clean air, it's pure fiction. That's where it comes from. There is no access to this program. The constructions are that the poor can't afford it, and the rich can't afford it. It's from election to election. At that time, when not one zloty was spent, you did not hand over to Poles for the fight against smog, you spent 10 million on propaganda, for pre-election meetings. This is an election-to-election program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not from smog to clean air. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u88	Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr. Michał Kurtyka. There was no question, but I understand you'll answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Let me disagree. The first funds have already gone to the beneficiaries. Therefore, there is absolutely no reason to state what you have been gracious to make. That's one thing. Secondly, we are doing everything we can to simplify this programme in order to speed up the allocation of funds and make it easier for Poles to use these funds. One element is the inclusion of municipalities. This is the partner who has direct contact with the citizen. But I'll go further. At this point, we want to amend the simplification of proposals and the verification procedure. One of the most important simplifications we are planning will be the presumption that the beneficiary will sign the agreement at the time of the application. In other words, we want to make it as easy as possible for our citizens to sign such proposals. Therefore, we will eliminate the need for double arrival, the agreement will become binding after the decision of the management board of the relevant regional environmental and water protection fund. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[And why doesn't average earning Poles get money from this program? It doesn't pay to work in our country.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u90	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Andrzej Melak and Wojciech Buczak from Law and Justice. It relates to information on how CO2 emissions are measured in Poland and Europe. Please, Mr Andrzej Melak is the first question to be asked. [[I'm sorry, Mr Melak is not here. Wojciech Buczak.]] Mr Wojciech Buczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u91	Our question concerns the Polish government's climate and energy policy in general. And here I would like to quote a passage from the position of Silesian-Dąbrovsk Solidarity. The National Commission speaks highly of what the Polish Government is doing in this matter. I quote: "Solidarity" with great approval accepted the rejection by the Polish delegation of the final conclusions of the June European Council on the next tightening of the European Union's climate and energy policy. It should be made clear and clear that acceptance of the provisions on achieving climate neutrality by 2050 would mean a disaster for the Polish economy and a permanent depletion of the inhabitants of our country. The Prime Minister's attitude at the Brussels Summit is an example of the effective implementation of the Polish state of affairs in the area of the European Union's climate and energy policy. Previously, especially during the reign of the previous coalition, we have suffered only severe failures in this field. It must be borne in mind that Poland has made a huge effort in recent decades to reduce CO2 and has fulfilled the commitments of the Kyoto Protocol. Meanwhile, the largest issuers of this gas, the USA, India, China and other countries, do not take appropriate action in this regard. Large European companies locate production, which is often difficult for the environment, in countries outside Europe. In this context, the adoption of further reduction targets by the European Union is at the expense of a reduction in the competitiveness of the European economy, the decommissioning of industry and a radical rise in energy prices. That's why I'm asking you a question. As against other European countries, the balance of CO2 emissions in Poland and whether in the balance sheet of the leading European economies [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there also companies working outside Europe?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u92	Thank you. Mr Michał Kurtyka, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, answers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u93	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for that question. It concerns an absolutely fundamental issue which is currently being discussed in the European Union, but also goes beyond our European backyard because we have the summit of Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, which will take place on 23 September in New York. The subject matter of work at both EU and global level is another perspective, including a further chapter, as regards the submission by States Parties of the Paris Agreement of National Contributions, so-called. NDC. One element of national contributions is, of course, the 2030 targets. On the other hand, as far as the EU economy is concerned, this is the subject of debate, including at the last European Council meeting, on the issue of climate neutrality. Let us remind you that the Paris Agreement aims to achieve climate neutrality. This was one of the elements that Poland also pointed out at the Paris conference, namely that it is necessary to achieve a balance between emissions and carbon absorption. For this reason, climate neutrality does not immediately indicate that emissions should be eliminated in all Member States or in all economic sectors. On the other hand, the sum of these emissions should be offset by the sum of removals. Undoubtedly achieving climate neutrality is not only a huge challenge for the energy sector, which is included in the Member's question, but also a civilization challenge, because, speaking of climate neutrality, we are also talking about sectors such as transport, and this is a discussion that has already come to the EU as well as Poland on the issue of electromobility, but it also goes beyond this sector. We are here on the issue of industry, the production of goods, and we are also on the issue of agriculture. As Poland, we are in the middle of an EU rate in terms of greenhouse gas emissions per head per capita. This is somewhat counterintuitive in relation to the discussion in which it is suggested that Poland would be a more than-dimensional greenhouse gas issuer in the European Union. The largest issuer remains our western neighbour, Germany, that is about 20% greenhouse gases in the European Union. By comparison, Poland emits slightly more than 9%. However, as a whole of the European Union, we are responsible for around 10% global emissions and this share of the European Union's emissions is gradually decreasing. China itself is 20%, the United States is another 15% global emissions. And the question asked by the Member, who was very right to pay attention to the imbalance in thinking between production and CO2 consumption. If we are thinking about climate neutrality, today this discussion focuses on those sources of CO2 emissions that are contained in the territory of the Member States of the European Union and does not refer to the consumption of goods. However, we are increasingly faced with a situation where CO2 consumption is imported. We are dealing with such situations where, even if it seems difficult to carry, heavy goods are imported from countries that emit, and in this situation there is an increasing discrepancy between the production of carbon footprint or emissions at European Union level and the consumption of goods in which emissions from imports are contained. This is undoubtedly one of the challenges not only for Europe but also for global climate policy. The CO2 articles do not have passports and, regardless of where they come from, they continue to enter the atmosphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Buczak again asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u95	Thank you, I no longer have an additional question, the answer was complete, exhaustive. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u96	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on media reports on the appeal of banks will be considered by the Polish Government to assist the Polish Government in proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union in the process concerning the so-called. Franc loans requested by the Kukiz Poselski Club15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Now, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You'd like to say, "I told you so." Because it so happens that the Kukiz club15, that as an applicant Member, I have been dealing with this topic for 4 years. What we're dealing with today and what one of the journals wrote about on July 2nd confirms exactly that we have a problem. Perhaps otherwise: we do not have a problem, private foreign banks have a problem which they are currently trying to sell to the Polish government. But to the point, to the publication. I would like to ask you to send a letter to the Financial Stability Committee and to the Prime Minister of Morawiecki from the Union of Polish Banks, asking for additional comments in the letter of the Republic of Poland to Case C-260/18 as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, private foreign banks are asking the Polish government, asking the Financial Stability Committee to defend them, sorry, not defend them, but justify that they have violated the law against Polish citizens. And now what is the essence of the problem, what we need to talk about, is the word key to today's meeting: abusivity. Abusity, which I have been talking about for 4 years from this speaker like a mantra, financial spokesman says, UOKiK says, court of first instance, second instance, Supreme Court. What do banks do? They're silent. They're blind, they're deaf and they're not responding. And what is the essence of going to the TSUE? The district court referred to the TSUE, stating that at present there is a discrepancy on the basis of Polish law in terms of how to understand abusibility with regard to the provision relating to the principle of credit conversion. And here are the different schools. Some say the whole deal's off. On the contrary, the clause is invalid and, consequently, a contract. The third view is that the clause must be regarded as non-existent, and the agreement is valid, except that since there is no agreement on indexing and the rules for calculating foreign currency instalments, the currency loan is converted into LIBOR gold, and I will remind you that today LIBOR is negative. Ladies and gentlemen, for a very long time I have heard from this speaker: they have seen the eyeballs that they have taken. And today we can say, they've seen the eyeballs they've given. Because every contract, ladies and gentlemen, has two sides: giving and taking, signatures are two sides and there is acceptance of two parties. For today, ladies and gentlemen, one thing frightens me is that today, someone who has been consciously involved in the so-called. pseudo-franchise credit, which for today - everyone knows it - are a serious problem not to say: the crime against the Polish consumer, the Pole, is trying to sell this problem to the Polish government. First the banks didn't want a dedicated bill. They said, "Let people go to court." People went to court, people won cases at first instance, in second instance, the Supreme Court says, the TSUE says. What do the banks say? Prime Minister, help us, we're sinking. And the screaming one, today it turns out that the victim... The unsub became a victim. According to Puls Biznesu, this is going to be 60 billion. We're not talking about change, ladies and gentlemen. It's a good three years or two years. 500+. The question is very simple and fundamental: Which side will the Polish government be on? Does the Polish government really treat Polish citizens? Does the Polish government turn into a defense attorney for banks? I'm just gonna say that we have more than 24 private banks and 10 are contaminated with these loans. That means we don't have a problem 100%. Polish banking system, but we are dealing with a phenomenon that has been convenient for years, making money by fat banking cats [[♪ The bell ♪]] big money, and today they're screaming they don't have money.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u98	Thank you very much. Now please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union referred to in the Member's statement are now at a final stage. The preliminary request in this case was submitted by the District Court in Warsaw on 16 April Ub. r. 21 August Ub. The Polish Government submitted written comments on this subject on the basis of the assumptions adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 17 August. The written stage of the procedure was completed in November ub. and the Court decided not to hold a hearing in this case. On 14 May this year. The Advocate General delivered an opinion on the matter. We are now waiting only for a judgment to be delivered in the coming weeks, and a specific date is not yet specified. Therefore, due to the stage of proceedings, it is no longer possible to submit additional, complementary written comments, as the Polish Bank Association claims. It should also be made clear that the banking environment was represented in the proceedings before the Court of Justice, since one of the private banks is involved in this procedure, which made very extensive written comments in the proceedings. The banking environment therefore had the full opportunity to submit its arguments and arguments to the Court and to make use of this possibility. As regards the government's position, its aim was primarily to protect the rights of the weaker party to foreign exchange loans, i.e. consumers. These are the rights arising from Directive 93/13 of 5 April 1993 on unfair terms in consumer contracts. I would like to remind you that the District Court in Warsaw, which asked the Court of Justice, is deciding the matters of consumers who have taken credit in Swiss francs. In the loan agreement, the bank entered into an unauthorised contractual arrangement concerning the method of calculating the franc rate. The Bank stated that it was in its table that the rate at which the sum of the capital to be repaid and the amount of the instalment of the loan drawn up in francs, which the consumer must pay in zlotys, were to be calculated and clearly stated. Nor is there any doubt in the light of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union that such proceedings are not allowed within the meaning of the directive I have mentioned and consequently do not bind the consumer. The legal problem is how to continue to repay the credit after the removal of such illegal contractual provision. There is no provision in the credit agreement that would indicate how to calculate the rate of the franc. In these circumstances, consumers are either asking for an alternative or a void contract, which requires immediate payment to the bank of the sum that the bank has lent to the consumer, or further repayment of the credit, but in gold, of the sum that the consumer actually received from the bank, while maintaining a lower interest rate covering the margin and the LIBOR rate for the Swiss franc. Since both options are unfavourable to the bank, the bank would like to maintain the validity of the agreement when replacing the provision prohibited by the exchange rate of franc announced by the National Bank of Poland. Consequently, the district court asked whether the Unfair Contractual Conditions Directive would allow the replacement of a provision not authorised on the basis of the franc rate, established on the basis of general clauses, resulting from the Civil Code, i.e. based on the principles of social relations or customs. This, in the court's view, would allow the provision not permitted to be replaced by a rate determined by another indicator, e.g. published by the National Bank of Poland. Currently there are several thousand similar cases in Poland which are suspended pending the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Polish Government presented to the Court the position in which it was pointed out that if the bank infringed the law and put in credit agreements provisions contrary to Directive 93/13 on unfair terms which I mentioned, such provisions cannot bind the consumer. The government pointed out that filling the gaps in the contract on the basis of the provisions of national law which contain general clauses would in no case be possible if the result of the recognition of certain contractual provisions as unfair would benefit the consumer from the collapse of the entire contract. An assessment of the consequences of the failure of the entire contract shall be made by the consumer after having been instructed by the court of all these consequences. The assessment expressed by the consumer should be taken into account by the court when deciding on the effects of the decision as inadmissible. What may be the effect of the Court's judgment? Banks which concluded credit agreements in Swiss francs in accordance with applicable law, i.e. they do not include unfair clauses in these agreements, they do not have to fear any adverse effects. On the other hand, banks which have taken advantage of their advantage over the consumer and introduced unfair clauses into credit agreements must face the consequences of EU law, just as any trader who carries out similar practices. EU law and the case-law of the Court of Justice very clearly and unambiguously protect the weaker side of credit agreements, which are borrowers. The position of the Polish Government presented in the proceedings before the Court is entirely based on this directive and the Court's case-law to date. However, so far the case law of the Polish courts in consumer matters has not been uniform. It has not always taken into account the requirements of EU law and has not always effectively protected the weaker side of credit agreements. We therefore hope that the Court's judgment in this case will contribute to the fact that the requirements arising from the Directive and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union will be popularized both among the Polish courts and in the banking sector and will prevent banks from applying illegal contractual provisions in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u100	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak again? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak, the Law and Justice Club, has the first vote. You're welcome. Time, two minutes. There's no envoy. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is a pity that the Minister felt that the position of the Court of Justice of the European Union in this particular case was necessary, and that you forgot that your President promised all the franchise four years ago that he would trade the loans at the time of the withdrawal. For other things, you don't need the TSUE's position, and sometimes it bothers you. In this situation, you are waiting for this position to be unknowable why. It's obvious. The fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki is extremely benevolent to banks and that the PiS government has made a number of decisions that support bankers, bank owners, bank boards and are unfavorable to citizens - we all know that. You can recall at least 20 million grants to a foreign bank. Why? To create jobs in Poland. Where? Not in the east. Not in small towns. In Warsaw. Is there unemployment in Warsaw? Does the western rich bank have to get 20 million Polish taxpayers to create jobs and earn in Poland? Only Prime Minister Morawiecki can think of such things. But it's worse. Split payment. Sealing tool. Poland is the only country in the European Union that gave the banks 26 billion last year, and this year about PLN 100 billion. This money of Polish entrepreneurs and Polish taxpayers lies in bank accounts. Banks turn them, earning huge money, and the Polish government must make commitments, debts and those debts later pay back - again with the money of the Polish taxpayer. That is why we do not know at all, Minister, how Prime Minister Morawiecki and his government will behave in this situation, because once you have cheated Poles cruelly in this case. [[Voice from the room: Not like you.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u102	Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the course of our discussions, many phrases and phrases will surely be asked, but they will have one punch line - the French scandal. It so happens that Kukiz15 submitted a draft resolution setting up a committee of inquiry for the French scandal. So far, there is no political will in our Polish Sejm. But here I have a very specific question for the Prime Minister, for the government side. Firstly, I would like to know the content and details of the letter from the Polish Bank Association addressed to the Prime Minister. I would like the public to know - this is very important also in the interests of the Prime Minister, it is about transparency and clarity - that the Prime Minister, as a former banker, plays fair and has no hidden intentions. That's the first thing. I am interested in the answer to a very important question: How much money has been raised in recent years, before the introduction of the bank tax, or how many foreign banks in Poland have transferred to their headquarters abroad? They were big billions. It's worth knowing these numbers. Third thing, very important, Minister. Question: "Will the Polish government finally take legal action against people, institutions involved in the Frankfurt affair?" I call it a french scandal because NIK has confirmed that government offices and government agencies have ceased to exist. It's time to get the legal consequences. If someone breaks the law, it's the consequences. He's going to jail if he has to. It has been shown in Iceland that this can be done and that the banking system can be civilized. I would like the Polish government to have this determination and - as necessary - put in jail one banker, another banker for acting premeditatedly and [[♪ The bell ♪]] He deliberately put Poland at risk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive, thorough and unnecessary emotions on this difficult issue of government position. Yeah, the most important thing is social justice. It's what we do, and that's how we change things. And when it comes to the so-called. The defense of bankers and bankers, it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to look on the Internet and see who played what, who he defended and who he was for. Almost four years ago, the situation changed. It is not anyone other than the opposition, perhaps not whole, who defended them, and it is still with a great pathos, scaring the Polish parliament that if we pluck into 2 billion banks, I talk about banking tax - all this can be verified - then banks will be redeemed at the expense of ordinary Nowaków, Malinowski, Zieliński, Zakrzewski and others. Yeah, it's all recorded. There's a question at this point who's got what to pay for. The law is one thing, and the sense of elementary justice is another. This is mainly about spreads, because no one had any doubts that it was gangster - not bankers', but gangsters - from the ceiling. Certain, huge money banks took from people, imposing it. And this abusive clause... Everyone, even the illegals, knew that. It's a good thing there's a verdict from the Court. It's not like... We do not have to agree, but we have always respected the decisions of Polish courts and European tribunals as a political camp. We are waiting with great hope that these decisions, very expensive... Banks are shaking. What about the fact that they're turning? Anyone can turn. I'm so glad we're not ashamed of it, we have nothing to hide. They turn, former writings - that's what the opposition is asking - but the Polish government didn't give up, didn't even consider it. Yeah, basicity and fact. Okay, let me get to the question, 'cause time is short. Are we considering making such amendments to this law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will help those who are the biggest victims even more, so those who took loans, not only in francs, but also in gold, have a difficult situation, can't and are unable to repay loans? That's the question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u106	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The history of ideas that were supposed to help the Polish franchise is so long that on this basis you could write a book. For the last four years, we have been dealing with a real festival of proposals and projects from the government. What is the effect, each of you can see. The borrowers who owed in Swiss currency years ago are in mat. They pay their payments, and their debt goes up. The biggest unluckies have twice as much to pay off as they got from the bank. According to the Credit Information Office at the end of 2018, 470 thousand were paid in Poland. loans in francs with a total value of as much as PLN 107 billion. Real help, when it wasn't, isn't it? During the election campaign, the President promised to trade loans everywhere. He traveled all over Poland and promised. What about these promises, ladies and gentlemen? Meanwhile, the clock is ticking, closer and closer to the Court of Justice of the European Union ruling on loans in francs. The situation is so serious that the bankers, fearing disaster, turned to the Prime Minister for help. Prime Minister, what are you going to do about it? Are you gonna keep wailing people's eyes and pretending you're doing something? Because it's just a soap of the eyes. After four years of your government, society feels deceived. You made a lot of promises, and that's it. It ended with promises. You tricked the Poles. From year to year, you underestimate this problem, and here we need real help. Yeah, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You fooled the Poles. [[Applause]] [[You guys let it happen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u108	Please, Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u109	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to know whether the Polish government will defend Polish citizens on this matter, as it had already announced before the elections or rather bank corporations. Therefore, I have two questions. Will the government stand on the side of the injured Polish citizens, or will it defend private foreign banks? And second question: What are the bank's profits for selling toxic banking products, commonly known as bank loans? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Paul. [[Voice from the room: I don't think it's there.]] There's no envoy. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to say, sir, this one, this one, this one, and it's been four years, and the PiS government hasn't solved the problem of the franchise, [[Applause]] And as we know, that was the President's election promise from your community. The Advocate General of the TSUE announced a decision favourable to the French people. The judgments of the Polish courts were divergent, as we know, and therefore the question for a preliminary ruling to the District Court was raised to the TSUE. If the decision of the TSEU is confirmed and it is as the Advocate General has said, as experts estimate it will cost banks between PLN 60 and 80 billion and this amount will be higher than any presidential project envisaged, Mr. Bankers are already calling for support from the government, and I am asking Prime Minister Morawiecki why he should help bankers and not citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u112	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u113	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The Court of Justice of the European Union has already stated, in response to one of the questions, that the contract must not fall contrary to the interests of the consumer. And it's the consumer's idea of what's in his interest. Poland has been implementing this principle for several years. The Creditor Support Fund is very important for less affluent borrowers, which we are going to make more flexible under the current law. The results of research carried out among the citizens of our country, which is important, not only for those who have franchise loans, show that Poles are in favour of supporting borrowers in real need of assistance. In my opinion, it would be useful to carry out an analysis which would be useful for consumers who have taken credit in foreign currency to convert or change their contracts or not. Those borrowers, according to the Minister's opinion, have lost their loans in francs or other foreign currency and who do not, depending on the year of the loan. Minister, has an analysis been carried out on this matter, and if so, what are its results? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u114	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by representatives of the Bank Immortality Stop Association, whom we warmly greet. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Marek Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are talking about the financial consequences of franc credits for the Polish banking system, but it must be recalled that four years ago President Andrzej Duda promised, but also PiS politicians in the election campaign promised to solve the problem of franc loans. They promised and some citizens believed you, voted for you, believed that such laws would actually be adopted. Unfortunately, time has shown that these were only sham acts. Two laws were passed to the Sejm: one in August 2016, the other in August 2017, two presidential projects which were intended to help the franchise, and it turned out that these were only fake actions in this case. Moreover, those franchises who believe you and count on the bill are in a worse position because from year to year, from month to month, their credit costs are increasing and they are losing more and more money. To me, Mr. Richard comes to my office in Tychy. He comes to my staff every few weeks and asks what's going on with the laws that President Duda has prepared and that are stuck in the committees. They are stuck with the decision of the PiS Members, because when you care, you are able to pass a bill in one night or a few days, and nothing has happened in these matters for several years. Yesterday some sham action, but by the end of the term of the Sejm there were only two sittings. Mr.Ryszard's distrust increased when Mr.Mateusz Morawiecki, former president of the bank providing loans in francs, became Prime Minister of the Polish Government. Therefore, the distrust of this environment towards the state is very high. I would like to ask: Will any of these presidential projects be adopted during this term of office? What is the government's position on this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u116	Thank you. Mr Jan Kilian, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yeah, that's right, there's one thing, a very serious problem that hasn't been solved. 90% various very difficult cases have been solved over the past four years. Well, the rule of law and justice always follows the principle of helping all citizens. The current bill is such a help to many. I have a question for the Minister. Is it true that this is a universal project designed to help various groups of indebted citizens? And by the way, it was not necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to allow this situation in advance, during your reign. [[Voice from the room: We're talking about something else.]] You shouldn't have let that happen, that wouldn't be the problem today. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Why aren't you doing anything?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u118	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Kamińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! These are difficult nearly 4 years that pass, for those who heard in the election campaign from the current President of the Republic of Poland, also from the Prime Minister's mouth, also from the side of Law and Justice, that they will take care of the rights of citizens, especially those who, by borrowing credits indexed in Swiss francs, were deceived by the banks. These loans were granted in zlotys, only indexed in Swiss francs, and they were remunerated according to the bank's calculation of this rate. Now that we have issues relating to violations of European Union law, the Polish government believes that something needs to be fixed, but where have you been for four years? Only when the European Union actually points out that contracts concluded with borrowers in respect of these Swiss francs are illegal, illegal, against European Union law, i.e. also illegal with Polish law - only now. Why has the Law and Justice government failed to ensure that this law is corrected and helped Polish citizens for four years? Why did neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Republic of Poland assist these citizens and these borrowers in these difficult situations, even by calling a representative who would give them professional advice and advice on what they should do in these matters? As the Member said, these people have taken credit. This isn't about cutting them off. They want to pay back what they've earned, with due interest, but not three times as much as they've taken. ♪ 'Cause some people have already lost ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] These houses and apartments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u120	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Someone seems to have forgotten what it was really like with the public finances of the PO government. Amber Gold, leaky taxes, now thanks to the Ministry of Finance, we are lucky to be sealing public finances. Thank you very much, Minister, for leaning over the French problem. This is a very serious problem. The Law and Justice government actually reached out to Poles and Poles, and you didn't see the problem. You have not noticed at all that public finances are, should be under certain rigour, that Poles and Poles should have protection from the state. You weren't interested at all. I thank the government here very much that it has undertaken a difficult task and that Poles are gaining their rights in courts, winning thanks to cooperation with experts, because these agreements were unclear, reaching their rights and obtaining financial compensation. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: Is the clause allowing the bank to set any interest on the loan unclear, ambiguous and illegible, so it should not bind consumers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u122	Thank you. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u123	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Messengers and Members of the PiS! Already in previous elections, the political camp declared a solution to the problem of franc credits. System change is needed. This is mentioned by the representatives of the franchise, but also by the spokesperson of the District Court in Warsaw, the largest court in Poland, flooded with a wave of lawsuits about the cancellation of credit agreements or the conversion of these loans to zloty loans at the rate of taking credit. Now we find out that the Prime Minister's colleagues, bankers, want Mateusz Morawiecki to stand on the side of banks, not on the side of citizens and law. For the law stands on the side of the franchise and this is what bankers fear. EU Directive 93/13 and its Polish law leave no way out to courts if they want to apply EU law. Don't let the bullshit fool you for 60 billion losses in the banking sector. Banks will lose, it's true, but only part of their huge profits. Remember, the banks didn't have Swiss francs and didn't pay them to their customers. My question is therefore: Is Poland going to comply with Directive 93/13 and help the franchise whether Prime Minister Morawiecki is going to use some strange tricks to extend the procedure on which over 600 000 are to be resolved. borrowers? Will the Law and Justice on this matter stand on the side of citizens or on the side of capital? Prime Minister, answer Poles: Why is the PiS government helping bankers rather than citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u124	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u125	I'm gonna start with the quote I gave yesterday, but I'm gonna add some more. The priest blames you, the priest blames you, and to us the simple poverty from everywhere - and to the French poverty. It's a quote from a brief hearing between three people, the Lord, Wójt and Pleban, Santa Reja. It is about enchantment during the campaign period, promising that we will solve all the problems of the franchise - 500 or 700,000. agreements. Today I could quote, say, that these promises from the campaign are like in the proverb: "It appears and disappears - this is the role of the magician. And there are four projects. But it is worth presenting a brief introduction - for those Members who say that nothing has been done. In 2006 both the Minister of Finance from Law and Justice and the Members of the House said that Poles have the right to risk and nothing has been done about the granting of franc credits. It was not until later that loans were suspended. Then the state also had its head of the Banking Supervision Commission and later the head of the Financial Supervision Commission. The Civic Platform prepared two projects immediately in 2015. You're one to correct. In four years, the PiS didn't do anything. My question: What is the opinion of the Financial Stability Committee? What are the risks of preparing for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, credit risks, liquidity, operational risks, compatibility, reputation loss by banks, capital? This is all important to us because we have savings at the banks. And we will not be enchanted by the Members of the PiS who are trying to charm. You didn't do anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are only amending the Civic Platform Act, which immediately after the release of the Swiss franc's exchange rate against the euro took up this activity. You've been asleep for four years.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u127	Let me quote... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u128	Madam, time is up. I'm sorry. Mr Paweł Kobyliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u129	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The fact that those people who are represented there at the gallery win in court is a fact. The fact that it is a few thousand people. And it's also a fact that they've been waiting a few years in the freezer for these projects. I would like to ask: Are you aware that a certain financial armageddon is approaching for banks? Because I don't feel sorry for banks or bankers. The point is that they still keep the savings of Poles. And these tens of billions will necessarily affect the stability of this system. I would therefore like to ask: Do you have a plan, a real plan, a solid plan, a system plan, how to remedy it? And no, like in the case of reprivatization, you're just gonna wait to see what's going on because of the reprivatization bill. You run, too, and if nothing has been passed, it is not. And it's the same for these few years as you rule, because there's no systematizing bill for this mess. Therefore, I ask you to answer: Do you, my dear Minister, have any government project that will systematize this mess that we will all be about to have prepared here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u130	Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, after four years, at the end of your term, it turns out that you have not solved any citizens' problems to the extent that you have made very concrete promises, based on the support that both President Andrzej Duda and Law and Justice have built their campaign. Frankowicz is extremely disappointed with 4 years of work, and the recent work, Mr President, in the subcommittee was actually a joke, because you first argued that the solutions you are proposing are excellent, are great and will save the lives of all the victims of the banking system, and then you withdrew from the key solutions that were not the best for citizens. [[I didn't say that.]] And summa summarum question: What's next? Because the term ends, the problem, how many you went to the election with, was completely unsolved. In a moment it may be that, in fact, at European level, some decisions will be made, but citizens in Poland still have to fight their individual cases in courts, not everyone can. And that's how you make a pretty big exclusion, because if someone doesn't have money for a good lawyer, they're not gonna win this case in court. So the question is: Will the Law and Justice in the next campaign build its support by sending promises to a group of people who had taken loans in francs years ago, or will you finally admit that you cannot solve this problem? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to from the gallery by a group of children and young people from Kołaki Kościelne commune with Fr. Peter the Chuckle. Welcome. [[Applause]] And please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You can get the impression that propaganda is your electoral power and you still want to wave all the promises you promised four years, and now the laws that are being passed on to this electoral propaganda to carry. Minister! I have a specific question for you. 60 billion PLN is the amount of possible aid to the French people if they lose this process, in housing contracts. Will this amount related to economic credits increase this amount and if? If you have that information, I'm asking for it. And one last question. However, it turns out that the Government of Law and Justice is very happy to help bankers, and you have forgotten about citizens. For years you have been talking about the fact that you are close to the citizens, that you want to talk, that you have concrete proposals, and that such a simple cliché of help directly to a specific citizen, mentioned by name and by name, remains for you a spectrum of further comments and promises, not the implementation of their electoral programmes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just recently celebrated the fourth anniversary of the meeting of the presidential candidate Andrzej Duda, here in the Seym, with the Francovian community during which Mr Duda promised the golden mountains. Mr President said: These loans could be converted according to the course at which they were taken. The president has a huge ID to handle difficult cases at the state level. In fact, three months after the election, the President was to present a bill like this. With a big cloud, a little rain, and really nothing. Unfortunately, this is the summary of these four years of the presidency of Andrzej Duda, also of the four years of abandonment of the PiS government. It's no wonder, since the government is the head of the banker all the time. Ladies and gentlemen! We must also refer to the situation concerning work in the Sejm, because in the High House we are constantly violating the rules of the Sejm. Recently we have had a sentence, you can say, President Duda against Marshal Kuchciński, who was included in the explanatory statement of the application to the Constitutional Tribunal. Total criticism of legislative work in this House. It is also necessary, Mr Cymanski, to criticize your work in the subcommittee, because this project has been constantly sunk. Mr. President only woke up now because he remembered that next year was the presidential election. Unfortunately, it's a group of people, I'm talking about the franchise, a very large group of people who have just been clearly deceived by you. The dwarf translations that the presidential ministers later presented are also embarrassing. They care about the banking system, not about those that gave them electoral support in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u136	Thank you. Mr Jan Szewczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u137	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It makes absolutely no sense when it comes to these political accusations that PiS is more guilty, Platform less, etc. It is the responsibility of the entire political class that this ulcer has not been cut long ago, as it happened in most countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the least guilty in this case, and it is taking up this challenge today in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question, or actually an appeal to a government representative to meet at the summit of representatives of the government and of the banking sector as soon as possible, in my opinion. The banking sector wouldn't listen for years. Enough of that, he was extremely arrogant towards those who said do something, trade these loans. It's gonna cost you a dozen billion zlotys, maybe 20. You're gonna write it down for years, it's gonna be 1 billion a year. You won't even notice this amount with those 14 billion profits a year. We met not only with insults, not only with arrogance, but with my person, I would say, even with certain threats in this matter. The decision of the tribunal may become a fact in a few months. It was supposed to be July 9th, but it'll move because of parliamentary holidays and various elections. It'll probably be after the vacation, right after the vacation. The banks realized, however, that lawlessness would not be legalized on this issue. We're being threatened by 60 billion, by the instability of the sector, and so on. I ask you to take the initiative of such a meeting and explain to the banks that they will be better able to carry out the translation in some form, at the moment voluntary, because then they will not be able to hope that the Polish state will be the greed that has blinded some people, to support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u138	Thank you. Mr Blazej Parda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm in a similar tone, because the last few years have been a record profit for the banks. They are so brazen that a few months ago in the media they reported information, in fact they announced an increase in fees not because of it that it is terribly bad that they are bankrupt, just because Poles earn a little more, that the economy is growing a little faster. They want to participate in these profits, too. They claim that they must therefore raise the fees for all Poles. That's insolent. So the problem is much wider, not just about the franchise. It's very important. It's a limitation or some form of doing something to slow down the greed of the banks. Hence the question: Is the government planning any changes in this matter? When will the Kukiz15 project be unblocked on the Special Committee? He was blocked because there was no government opinion on this project. The question is whether this government opinion has already appeared. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Henryk Wnorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, the banking sector boasted that 2018 was the best year for at least 5, 6 years when it came to the result. I don't think there's going to be any armageddon here. I have doubts, listening to some Members, whether they can't judge what's going on, whether it's okay or not. I am very pleased with the government's position. At this point, I call for it to continue to be consistent. On the other hand, it seems that this case would seem, very difficult, to be one of those who resolve themselves in some way. The judgment of the tribunal, as we expect, can be of great help to us. In this connection, I have a question: How much is the amount of 60 billion that has appeared in the Business Pulse, which some consider to be very tragic, true and reliable? Does the government have a position on this yet? In my opinion, she's a little over the top to stress the drama of the whole situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski's representative, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you for the debate, because everyone who took the floor today was a puppet, because it was Kukiz,15 for 4 years with stubborn maniacs who said: banks did a scam. Even Modern today speaks like Kukiz. Congratulations on being able to convert after four years. Then you turned down our project, you tried to turn it down, but, I see, education works. First lesson for Mr Gosievski: this is Frank. There's no envoy. It's a franc, I've already shown it once, five hundred Polish. There were no francs. People, I asked a simple question four years ago from this speaker - and I challenged all professors of economists - how to convert it. [[That's right, that's right. That's right.]] What algorithm? What do you mean, the calculus? What's the course? How do I count $50,000 to $50,000? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Balcerowicz is silent, Belka is silent, everyone is silent. The political scientist coughed up the guests. I'm sorry, but that's how it works. Ladies and gentlemen, the second case, then regarding my draft law, which Kukiz submitted, BAS issued such an interesting analysis with the proposal: Nor does it seem to be a deliberate burden on the budget of the State resulting from the wrong decisions made by some borrowers and banks. It is not the role of the State to rescue any group that has fallen into financial difficulties because of its decisions. And I understand that the Polish government will approach it this way, because fat cats will be able to pay back 65 billion or 80 billion, because this money is not in space, in voidness, this money has been in their pockets and has been there for years. And in the future, they will have to lose weight. As far as the government is concerned, I see a little ambiguity here and doubt whether the government is so fair to the end. Minister, at the same time I also address the Ministry of Finance, that is in January 2019, attention, we have a government bill - we defend consumers, we defend Poles - a bizarre project including banking law, in which there is a change of article. 95. Remember this article because our Kukiz 15 printing is already in place and I will appeal to the Marshal for a swift legislative path. I have already talked to the chairman of the Parliament's Finance Committee about predicting a fast path. Why? Well, in a magical way, there is a change in the article in the government project at the Ministry of Finance. 95, which makes a customer become like a bag of potatoes that can be sold in relationships between a bank, a fund in Cyprus and anywhere, and doesn't even know it. I know the case of a woman who took $250,000. The loan was sold to the X fund in Cyprus and you speak and say, ma'am, your debt is 1.5 million, but, as we agree, it's going to be 500,000, and we're writing a new schedule. What does that mean? Does the Polish government really fight for Poles to the end when it introduces such strange, shady projects? I would like to solve this and I would like to finally start talking seriously about Poles as partners and defenders. The Polish government is to defend Poles, be on their side, on the side of citizens. Like Kukiz,15, we encourage you to stand on the side of the citizens as well. The fact that banks are full of pants is what I understand, because a few CEOs are gonna lose their job and the bonus is gone, but it's gonna have to be worked out differently. They're gonna have to reflect on their profits for years. But, once again, in the past decades, they've made billions, not millions, and you as a government haven't seen it, either in the Platform or in the PiS. It is the bank tax that has shown that these 3 billion with a bang, bigger or smaller, banks can pay back to the state budget, they can support the state budget. The question is how many billions have come to the bank centers, how many billions have gone sideways. We have lost this as Poles, and we are still told: you are to pay 80 billion, 100 billion. No, ladies and gentlemen, 50 zlotys, not francs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Oh, it was borrowed money, I see. And that's even worse.]] [[Voice from the room: But without interest.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u144	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To answer this series of questions maybe I'll start one at a time. It is not as it was in Banif Bank's time when the Ministry of Finance, Ewa Kopacz's government, took the side of the bank in this case against Polish consumers. [[That's not true, Minister.]] Those days are over. In this case, the government's position was the same as the banks. We are talking about the Banif Bank case, Member. I suggest we get back to this case. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[That's what happened.]] [[Right.]] Second line. If we are talking about history, I would point out that these loans did not start to be granted in 2015. [[In 2006 or 2005.]] From 2008 to 2015... [[They were before, before.]] ...for eight years, this de facto has been carried out in one way or another. [[Since 2005, Minister.]] For eight years, there have been no actions that could lead to a bill like that made by the President. [[Applause]] That's not enough. [[Voice from the O.R.: None.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it is.]] Honestly, I probably shouldn't have spoken, but I have to. At least that's how I was informed, I'm sure you know that yesterday there was a second reading of this law at the Sejm meeting, a law to help the franchise. [[Platforms. Improved.]] So it's not exactly like nothing's been done in this case in four years. As you know very well, those dealing with finance, it is not a simple matter, hence - as was mentioned in the questions - there were work in the subcommittee, then there were work in the committee. And, interestingly enough, I am very pleased with this project, in fact, by all the clubs was supported, single Members had a different opinion. That's another line. There is no way that we are defending those who apply non-compliant clauses that are incompatible with EU law. Here's another thing. When it comes to answering questions about the responsibilities of individual persons in the banking sector, this is the subject of analysis and proceedings by the relevant institutions, e.g. The Financial Supervision Commission, the Financial Supervision Authority, which analyse this situation. [[And the D.A.'s office.]] I think, therefore, that a more competent answer will be given to this question. If we're talking about the so-called. The general clauses referred to here are the issues relating to the directive I mentioned and should be dealt with on the basis of that directive. This is the position of the government: if we have an EU directive, if we have the implementation of EU law and this directive is implemented, then the law must be applied. For the sake of detail, Mr Gosievski's questions will allow me to reply in writing because they require the gathering of information from the relevant institutions. As regards the composition of the Financial Stability Committee in the macro version, the head of this committee is the President of the National Bank of Poland, so I think that these questions in writing should be addressed to the President, but this is of course the decision of your marshal. Are there any solutions... As I said yesterday, as far as I know, there was a discussion on this subject in the Sejm. As far as the Kukiz project is concerned15, as far as I know, there was an oral position of the government. [[Negative.]] The project was considered within the subcommittee, as were the other projects. The committee's decision on this matter has resolved this issue, I believe. As for the amount of 60 billion referred to here on several occasions, I would point out that the issue must be examined from a different point of view. At the moment, it is not clear whether it is 60 billion or less, because all types of contracts that were concluded on loans need to be analysed. Therefore, this is not a simple process, and depending on how individual agreements were formulated, these provisions were formulated, so it will be possible to determine the scale of the phenomenon, whether it is 60 billion or less or more. As far as the article is concerned. The 95 mentioned here was a law related to the implementation of one of the EU directives. It is therefore a question of adapting the Polish law to the EU directive. In conclusion, I find that both the government's position sent to the tribunal and, as I have said, the clear declaration of the government in this regard, show that the government is on the side of consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Citizens.]] [[May I have the title of corrigendum?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u146	Yes. You're welcome, Mrs. Skowronska, as a correction. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u147	In the title of corrigendum. Mr. Marshal! Thank you for your vote and your opportunity to correct it. Unfortunately, the Minister was wrong about a lot of things, among others. by stating that it was for eight years of the Civic Platform government... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the letter of the General Inspector for Banking Supervision of 8 February 2006, which opposed the ban on the granting of foreign exchange loans, including in franchise. [[What's the corrigendum?]] He replied to this letter that there would be no restriction. I would also like to dedicate my speech to the Minister, among others. the then Minister of Finance of Ms Zyta Gilowska or the President of the Przemysław Gosievski Club, indicating in this discussion the need to limit... You said that borrowers have the right to take risks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was from the State of Law and Justice that during that period there was no condition relating to the limitation of credit payments. The President's proposal is an improvement... This is an amendment to the bill prepared by the Civic Platform. [[As a correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u148	Thank you, Member. Please, in the correction procedure, Mr Szewczak. I'm the last one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to say that the honourable Member has pointed out a letter which concerned franchise loans, currency loans and not so-called loans. foreign exchange loans or so-called foreign exchange loans. Franc loans. [[So-called.]] I would like to remind you, Madam President, that in 2008 or 2009, and therefore not in the rule of law and justice, you have changed banking law and added indexed and denominated loans to foreign currency loans because banking law did not cover these two elements. [[Exactly.]] Already then you realized that this was a delayed-fire bomb, and you decided to bend a little bit, change it to banking law, so that these loans denominated and indexed would also be treated as currency loans. Once again, there is no point in accusing each other, Madame. The problem needs to be solved because he's hanging over us like a sword, he's like a bomb that's gonna explode sooner or later. [[Applause]] [[You have to admit, this is a mistake on your side. And you have to solve it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u150	Good. Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 21 hours 12 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Benefits financed by public funds (Prints No 3551 and 3591). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u151	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure to present, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, the reports of this committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Services financed by public funds, print No 3551. The Sejm at its 83rd meeting on 3 July 2019, in accordance with Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 3 July 2019, asks the High Sejm to approve the above draft law. I would like to point out that no amendment has been tabled during the committee's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u152	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Yesterday, the Sejm was visited, or actually at first reading, by analyzing this print project No.3551, concerning the proposal of the government to introduce a zero PIT rate, personal income tax, for persons up to the age of 26. A very innovative project, expected, announced by the President of the Jarosław Kaczyński party in the fifth postulates, which we want to implement as Law and Justice at the end of the current term of the Sejm. I am very pleased that this project is so well tested that there is a full chance that in the last 5 months of this year it will be a project already implemented, used, one that will be able to benefit from the maximum limit of PLN 85 528 annual revenue on 5/12 basis, because this is the way it is set - very high, at most among the European Union countries - the preferential threshold for revenue generated by those who will benefit from this regulation. During the work of the Committee on Public Finance - although no amendments were tabled - part of the opinion on the constitutionality of the project was repeated, e.g. the date of its entry into force and may also exclude two types of benefits. It's about the contract for the work, but it's also about the business. I want to say yes. Firstly, as regards the constitutionality of the project, the Government's explanatory memorandum refers to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of May 1996, which explicitly states that the government, that the legislator, that the Sejm have full freedom to shape such relations and select the beneficiaries of tax policy. It seems quite obvious that the principle which has been adopted in this programme falls within the scope of such a specific exercise as the legislator has. The date of entry into force - during the work of the Committee on Public Finances were requests for an extension of the deadline - was maintained, and I am very pleased about that. The Law and Justice Club also supports this term - very short, however, it seems that it is well defined and giving the possibility and work of the Senate on this document, and the execution on the date of signature, and the decision taken by President Andrzej Duda. As far as the question of the possible extension of the number of beneficiaries of this programme is concerned, let us recall. First of all, the fact is, there's one fundamental thing. The limit we have proposed is the highest in Europe. French e.g. it has been set at three times the amount of EUR 1450 and the Belgians at EUR 7500. In Poland the amount of more than 85 thousand. PLN really is a very brave amount. It is therefore necessary to have a precise calculation of what we can come out with, and this has been precisely calculated, as has been shown in the impact assessment of the regulation. I would like to say in a responsible way that today we do have such a situation that the income from PIT tax is higher by PLN 28 billion, counting until the year when we took over power, and from CIT tax - by PLN 11.3 billion, in total, today, when it comes to personal income tax, the amount of PLN 110 billion, and so it seems that there are certain regulations that are entitled to help young people who are starting their lives in particular, take the first job, which is often related to changing their place of residence, to renting a place. I am very pleased that the Government of Law and Justice has a much better offer than our predecessors. As in the lens, I could show how they treated young people. When asked by a young citizen to the then president Bronisław Komorowski about his and his sister's future, about how to earn revenue, the answer was one: change your job or take credit. We have reliable solutions that are expected by young people, and I already know many young people who are very excited about this regulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, the Law and Justice Club supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u154	Thank you. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u155	Thank you very much. I regret to say that during the work in committee, none of our doubts as a Civic Platform or as a business union have been resolved, and even the basic questions have not been answered. I would also like to remind you that the Legislative Office has highlighted inequality, the issue of non-constitutionality, in terms of inequality due to employment relationships. There is no reason why a person employed under a contract of employment or a person working under a contract of employment may be exempt from tax, whereas a self-employed person who works under a contract for the work of this exemption will not have. In fact, this points to discrimination against entrepreneurs, and as we know, we should be very concerned that it is young people who are willing to take up self-employment, often setting up various innovative companies, start-ups, who have these reliefs. Meanwhile, we have a situation in which a person up to the age of 26 who is employed for a contract of employment will have an exemption from PIT, and the person who conducts business will have an increase of PLN 120 next year. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice does not promote entrepreneurs. It will also be that to a person who is 26 years of age, this tax will increase dramatically, because by 26 years of age it will be exempt from it, and at the age of 26 this tax will suddenly increase in its case in a drastic way compared to what was before. I must refer to the words of the previous speaker from Law and Justice, who said that this is a great program, and the opposition of the program does not exist. Then I'll remind you again. Ladies and gentlemen, 2 years have been wasted since the Civic Platform has submitted a programme of higher wages, which assumed wage increases on the hand, the less someone earns, a program that did not suddenly cut redundancies and salary increases at the time when a person turns 26, finally a programme that was aimed at everyone, not just a group of people who, at the age of 26, would suddenly cease to benefit from these redundancies, and most importantly, from a state point of view, a programme that simplifies and does not complicate the tax system. Today, however, we have a situation where this system will be complicated again. Young people will have to think again - they are already wondering - how to benefit from the greatest amount of relief, and that is not what we should be talking about. I would also like to remind you that the analysts of the National Chamber of Commerce indicate that there is no justification why the projector decided to exempt only selected categories of income and not all income generated by persons up to the age of 26. And another important issue - also we have not received an answer - concerning local governments. We must remember that the changes made concern not only stakeholders and those who will receive these reliefs, but above all local government units. This case was repeatedly signalled by all associations of cities, the Union of Polish Cities, the Union of Polish Metropolises. The finance resort calculated that within 10 years of implementation of the programme its costs would amount to around PLN 25.5 billion. This is about PLN 13.5 billion less revenue to the State Treasury, but also PLN 11.8 billion less revenue to local governments, and that means less funding for public spending directed to residents, local governments, crèches, kindergartens. This will not be compensated in any way. This is a very big problem. Finally, it is worth asking why you do not take the question of the tax-free amount. Why are solutions in place that are not even in the same age category for everyone? Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - The Civic Coalition is making an amendment which also aims to take account of people employed for a work contract and self-employed people engaged in business activities so that everyone is treated equally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by a group of guests from Hartowiec, Dzia3dowo County. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] I do not see Mr Paweł Grabowski and Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. Therefore, we move on to asking questions. If any of you want to sign up again, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Michael Szczerba. I can't see. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is true that the government wants to help young people enter into adult life and make it easier for them to start, but why is this help denied to young people of the same age who do not want to take up contract work but want to work on their own? They have initiative, they have ideas, and this entrepreneurship should be promoted. We should be happy that more and more of our citizens want to work on their own, taking various initiatives, opening their own businesses. Why not help those people who have additional costs associated with the start-up of activities who need support, to be honest, in all activities that involve the start-up of activities? Why aren't these people promoted, helped and punished? This is absolutely a punishment for entrepreneurship. Why are we promoting contract contracts? After all, we should promote such entrepreneurship. And I ask, why does the government insist on this? Ladies and gentlemen, this is stubbornness incomprehensible to young Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u158	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The bill states that the changes made will allow people working in the grey economy to return to the labour market. I have a question: Has the Ministry tried to estimate how large a group of young people working in the so-called. the grey area may be affected by the solutions introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u160	Thank you. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u161	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to ask you: Why do you not support people who study longer than 26 years of age? I'm talking about young doctors. Today it is obvious that this is a subject that is controversial because of the lack of doctors. In such a case, you would also have the opportunity to join this group so that it can enjoy such privileges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u162	And there you go, Mr Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about a calculation I did not see in the explanatory memorandum or in the impact assessments of the regulation. I don't expect an answer here in the courtroom, but maybe in writing, because I don't know if the minister has that much knowledge. According to such static data, for today, are these amounts relating to the loss of income tax revenue to the income tax budget for persons employed in a work contract, fulfilling a work contract, or those engaged in an economic activity high, relevant? What is the amount? I am aware that there could be an additional stream of revenue burdening the state budget and therefore there was some caution in narrowing down this framework for beneficiaries - it is absolutely understandable to me. But I am aware that this is a kind of populism that the Civic Platform or coalition wants to cultivate in this sphere. And I think we should show this to the citizens honestly why we couldn't go this way. Law and Justice solves problems systematically by addressing multi-million professional, sectoral and social groups. The same is true in this case - 2,2 Millions of people will become beneficiaries of this law, so this is very good news. But this detail, I think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] should be legible to all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u164	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u165	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! About the age of 26... The aim of this law is to activate young people by making it easier for them to enter the market. This exemption is addressed to taxpayers, who are younger, are under the age of 26, because it is usually the case that most, about 90% students graduate at the age of 24 and 25... [[Yeah, most of them.]] ...and the idea is to make it easier for them to start their first year or two at work and to relieve them as much as possible, also within the framework of real budgetary opportunities. In addition, this age of 26 appears in social security legislation, according to which persons who work under a contract of employment are not subject to compulsory pension and pension insurance, if they are students or students, until the age of that year. So it's a coherent system, hence the age of 26. As regards the question of Mr Gonciusz, as well as Minister Janczyk, these are questions concerning details which not only the Ministry of Finance has at its disposal, it will also have to collect detailed data from other institutions, so if you agree, we would reply in writing. There was also this narrative, and it seems to us, not entirely fair, saying that the government discriminates against self-employed people, discriminates against entrepreneurs. I will try again because this has already been explained in the committee, and there has also been information about this project from the government. From the beginning, the government announced that the income of young workers should be exempt from PIT until the age of 26. In relation to this initial proposal, after consultation and discussions, this has been extended to contract contracts, which are a common form of youth employment. The project is therefore more extensive than the one originally announced. At the same time, the aim of the project is not to support any form of youth employment activity, but only to increase the professional activation of young people as part of the stable and most popular forms of employment to which the minimum wage agreement applies. Therefore, the project does not include relief for young income from the contract for work and economic activity. The work contract does not constitute a legal basis for employment. As regards economic activities, including, among others, economic activities. one person, which was emphasized here, these revenues can already be taxed on a preferential basis today, i.e. at a linear rate of tax or a flat-rate on registered revenues. The choice of these forms of taxation does not, however, have employees or principals, contractors, sorry, not engaged in business activities. Hence the proposed support is addressed to this group of taxpayers. In addition, the government has recently introduced a number of additional solutions for entrepreneurs, which effectively reduce their fiscal burden. I'll try to name five basics. This is a relief to start. This is business support. Since 30 April 2018, entrepreneurs may not pay social security contributions to the Social Security Office for 6 months, while after 6 months for the next 24 months the contributions are much lower. A small ZUS has also been introduced. From 1 January this year. entrepreneurs can pay social security contributions on actual income. Another was that from 1 January 2019 it was possible to quickly settle losses by introducing the right to reduce one-off income from a given revenue source up to an amount not exceeding PLN 5 million. Also since 1 January this year. an option was introduced to include the remuneration of the spouse and minor children and, in the case of activities in the form of a non-legal company, also the spouses and minor children of the members of that company, due for example. employment relationship, contract or contract for work. One of the last issues, very attractive, is the so-called. IP Box. From 1 January 2019 the rate of tax has been reduced to 5% for income from eligible intellectual property rights the tax base. This also supports the innovation of our economy. Therefore, it is not true that the government in this case discriminates against self-employed or entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But I'm sorry, you didn't answer my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u166	The Minister suggested that he would answer some of the questions in writing. Maybe that's part of your question. [[That's exactly what I'm looking for. I'm asking for a written reply.]] You will answer the Minister's question in writing, yes? Thank you very much. I don't see Mr Andrzej Costowniak. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u167	Minister! How will the maintenance of the gross wage be secured so that the benefit of the exemption is borne by the taxpayer and not only by the employer, who will thus reduce labour costs? This is also important in view of the fact that many young people work on short contracts or do their work under contract and, consequently, often negotiate new contracts under new conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Family Benefits Act and the Publicly-funded Health Services Act following work on this project in committee. This project introduces an exemption from income tax for young people who are under 26 years of age. This is a great facilitation for people from this social group, who are only at the beginning of their professional career and often still learn, have to rent an apartment or start their own families. To relieve them, actually, at the start of their adult lives, I consider it an idea worthy of support. I am pleased that the current government has seen these young people and has decided to support them in the form of records of this project. I do not understand the argument of the total opposition, for which the problem is the age limitation contained in the Act. It is clear to me that, when designing such support for specific social groups, reasonable boundaries must be set so that the financial resources allocated to these objectives are directed towards the most deprived to meet the objectives of these solutions. For eight years, the governments of today's opposition did not even think that the state was not just taking from its citizens to raise taxes or retirement age, that listening to social expectations was not enough to promise, but those promises should also be fulfilled. Today's project is another example of the United Right government keeping its word and carrying out its announcements, leading a responsible policy aimed at the development of our society as a whole. What is also important to me, for the efficiency of this or other solutions serving Polish citizens, both those already implemented and those just announced, does not matter that in the autumn elections will take place in our country. It does not matter that elections to the European Parliament took place more than a month ago. Of course, good changes can affect the outcome of these elections and I hope that this will be the case. But four years of concrete action, the successive completion of the electoral programme in my opinion is called responsible governance, not campaigning. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the project presented in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u169	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety (Prints No 3540 and 3563). I ask Mr Jerzy Materna to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety, print No. 3540 and 3563. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation at its meeting on 3 July 2019 considered a draft law implementing two EU directives into the national legal order. The draft, after consideration by the committee, with one legislative amendment proposed by the Legislative Office concerning the article. Point 1 (1) was adopted with no votes against. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of the national legal order requires two passenger ship safety directives: the first is Directive 2017/2109 concerning the registration of persons travelling on board passenger ships, the second is Directive 2017/2110 concerning an inspection system for the safe operation of ro-ro passenger ships and high-speed passenger craft engaged in regular shipping. For this reason, the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation prepared a draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety containing regulations implementing the provisions of both Directives mentioned in Polish law. Key for passenger ship safety solutions contained in the draft Law amending the Maritime Safety Act concern inter alia. ensuring immediate access to the data of persons travelling on passenger ships by sea rescue services, which is extremely important in the case of the search and rescue operations of individual passengers or crew members of those ships, as well as in the case of the operation of so-called. mass rescue operations involving the entire passenger ship and all persons on board. The regulations on the system of inspection of ro-ro passenger ships and high-speed passenger craft operating on regular lines are also essential for passenger ships' safety. In addition to increasing the safety of passengers, the revised rules will also have a positive impact on the functioning of the maritime passenger transport sector, including: by abolishing overlapping requirements and harmonising requirements for passenger ships irrespective of their nationality. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As rapporteur, I recommend the adoption of this draft law on the amendment of the Maritime Safety Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u171	Thank you, too. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I wanted to present my position on print 3540, namely the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act, along with the amendments that I will give to the Marshal on behalf of my club. The draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act contains a number of legal changes aimed at improving safety in Polish maritime areas. First of all, the proposed law contains provisions implementing two directives concerning the safety of passenger ships in the Polish legal order. The first Directive 2017/2109 concerns the registration of persons travelling on board passenger ships, and Directive 2017/2110 concerns an inspection system for the safe operation of ro-ro passenger ships and high-speed passenger craft engaged in regular shipping. The directives in place are clarifying the area of requirements for passenger ships, which in some cases have doubled and have been an unnecessary burden on ship owners of the passenger fleet. In addition, the directives put in place include solutions to improve search and rescue activities at sea, including: to ensure immediate access to the data of persons travelling on passenger ships by sea rescue services. The direction of change in European law, designated among others by the need to continuously improve the procedures for the operation of marine rescue services, it has also been reflected in the amendments I would like to make. These are four amendments, and the proposed amendments concern the functioning of the Maritime Search and Rescue Service units, the service set up to carry out search and rescue tasks at sea, the fight against marine hazards and pollution and other maritime safety-related tasks. The first amendment shall be made at the request of the shore workers of the rescue stations and the Marine Rescue Centre of the MSPiR Coordination Centre. The change will enable 24-hour on-calls to be carried out in these units, currently on duty for 12 hours, during which rescuers, inspectors remain alert to rescue, conduct radio surveillance and carry out tasks related to the operational readiness of the MSpiR's forces and resources. The same work system has been in place for a long time, among others. in the fire department or in the emergency services, i.e. in formations with similar specific tasks. This solution works in practice, meets the needs of workers, and gives employers the necessary flexibility in planning work and rest of rescue personnel. The second proposed amendment will improve the activities of the Maritime Search and Rescue Service and avoid absurd situations such as: leaving the ship shall have the grace of the element after the evacuation of its crew or of leaving the rescue ship in the so-called "saver" for hours. assist in a damaged unit in the event of a threat to the life of its crew as a result of a change in the weather or the development of a failure. 3. The amendment also provides for amendments to the Act, but given that the MSPiR has been set up to carry out a free rescue of human life and health and the protection of the marine environment, while marine rescue within the meaning of the Act The Maritime Code is a paid activity, it is necessary to regulate in the Law on Maritime Safety the principles of reimbursement to the budget of the State of the costs of service activities going beyond its original statutory tasks. 4. The amendment concerns the amendment to the wording of the Article. 8 draft law setting the date of entry into force of the Law amending the Law on Maritime Safety. In line with the proposed new wording of the Article. 8 the draft amendments concerning the maritime functioning of the Search and Rescue Service will enter into force within 14 days of the date of publication of the Act. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed legal changes aim to improve the safety of all shipping professionals in Polish maritime areas, among others. by harmonising passenger ship requirements as well as improving the functioning of the Maritime Search and Rescue Service. In view of the above, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that this draft be adopted together with amendments not only by the committee but later by Parliament. Mr. Marshal, I'm handing over the corrections. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u173	Thank you. Please, Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's proposal for a law on maritime safety implements two EU directives on safety on passenger ships into Polish law. Taking account of Union legislation, the proposed solutions will ensure uniform rules for inspections on ro-ro passenger ships, it is a passenger ship suitable for rolling in and rolling out road or rail vehicles, and on high-speed passenger ships carrying more than 12 passengers during regular shipping. It goes on, among other things. a series of voyages carried out to operate traffic between the same two ports or more of the same ports. The purpose of the new legislation is to include inspections carried out on such ships in the system of inspections carried out by the flag State on ships of Polish nationality and by the port State on ships flying a foreign flag. Provisions have also been proposed to allow for better communication of the number and identity of persons on board the ship, given their particular importance for the effectiveness of the search and rescue operations carried out. These solutions will positively increase the safety of travellers. The new solutions are due to apply from 21 December 2019, as by that date European Union Member States are required to implement the provisions of the Passenger Directives. The first reading and examination of the project took place at the meeting of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on 3 July 2019. The project has not provoked controversy and we will vote in favour of its adoption. As regards the amendments tabled by Mrs Arcisewska, we will refer to them at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Kobylarz is not here. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u176	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats is in favour of continuing the legislative work, because, as my previous speaker said, this government project submitted for first reading at the committee meeting did not raise or create, did not create a difference of opinion during the work. There was no controversy. The issues raised in it are obvious, clear and understandable. The amendments are discussed in the explanatory memorandum and in the materials attached to the draft law, and in our view they are moving towards the fulfilment of the stated objective, acceptance and inclusion in specific provisions and legal frameworks. Therefore, these two mostly indicated areas concern and passengers, and preserve the appropriate, good, at a high level of technical status of ships which are used for the transport of people. That's what we think is right and good. Those provisions shall specify the requirements to be met by vessels, the number of surveys, the period between them, the way in which the technical condition is documented, the manner in which the ship owner records and informs them later in the event of deficiencies. As for passenger records, it is obvious and clear. It is about safety, when these particular cases occur, it is necessary to provide assistance or to comply with the requirements of a given country relating to security, because there may be different persons among passengers: and those whom we expect, and those which fulfil different missions and tasks and are not necessarily desirable in the country concerned. There's an emergency. Hence this record, the rapid transmission to the contact point and the distribution of this information are very important things. That's why I'm going back to my initial statements. We are in favour of continuing our work, and I think - after considering it - that these amendments, which you spoke about here, are also moving towards improving or clarifying these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u177	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Time - one and a half minutes. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question that I would like to clarify about data transmission. Will the introduction of a new, in quotes, system endings on the ship's side be monitored by the Ministry for proper design of data security, so that the entire system remains safe and resistant to interference from the outside? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u179	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 103 of the bill under review provides for the obligation to register data on persons travelling by sea on commercial yachts and to transfer them using a mobile application to a single contact point. My question: Are you registering people on a yacht using the so-called. the mobile application is not too complicated and is it not concerned that the implementation of this obligation may in practice cause organisational problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u181	Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As my previous speakers have been informed, the law implements two important directives. This relates to the questions that have just been asked. We are seeing a steady increase in freight and passenger transport in the Baltic Sea on regular lines, as well as an increase in the number of crews of ships and passengers. All these solutions, both proposed by us and by the European Commission, are designed to streamline the current procedures, to change the rules in such a way that ship crews, maintenance or maritime administrations do not deal with bureaucracy more often than necessary and result from generally applicable rules. Mr Pyzik's question was about data transmission. It is true, this tip is now on the crew side, but I remind you that the system designed by the Maritime Authority in Gdynia has been operating for more than 10 years, has been working so far and we have no major problems with it. The principles that we are implementing this law are based on suggestions, comments and requests from both maritime officials and crews using this system on a daily basis. In his speech, Mr Gonciusz asked whether it would be complicated. This will definitely simplify the current system, which consists in manually supplementing all these data and reporting them in paper form. We recognize that in the age of digitization there is a mobile contact device on every ship or yacht. I think that these changes are definitely being made for the benefit of the crew and contribute to maintaining transparency in the maritime administration. This also involves saving time and data security. Once again - this system has been operating for 10 years, there have been no major problems with it, but this digital architecture has to be updated all the time, because the amount of data from year to year will increase. Security of data transmission - as you pointed out in your questions - is also crucial for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u183	Thank you, Minister. I don't see the rapporteurs of Mr Materna's committee. Is it? Do you want to... Thank you very much. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety. This draft law aims to implement EU directives, so-called. a package of passenger directives aimed at simplifying and clarifying the existing EU legal framework for passenger ship safety. The revised regulations aim to meet the objective of the package through, among others, the aim of the package. the harmonisation of the rules for inspections carried out on ro-ro passenger ships and on high-speed passenger ships carrying more than 12 passengers on regular lines. The amendment foresees that inspections will take place twice a year, at an interval of not less than 4 months and not more than 8 months, which, according to the applicants, will provide passengers with a high level of safety while not interfering with the level or quality of the service or the fulfilment of the needs involved. What is equally important, according to the provisions in question, information on the number and identity of persons on board the ship will be transmitted directly to the electronic platform, which is the national single contact point, which involves the elimination of the requirement for shipowners to maintain passenger information registration systems. This is not only a reduction in bureaucratic burdens, but also, above all, by ensuring proper and timely transmission of information, an improvement in order to carry out possible rescue and search operations more effectively. As the designers point out, in practice, the single contact point is functioning but has not yet had a statutory mandate. The correct regulation of this issue is therefore, in my opinion, a good solution. It is also important to me that the amendment also includes provisions to protect shipowners from unjustified detention or delay of the ship in the port and, in the event of such a situation, provisions relating to compensation under the provisions of the Civil Code. I am convinced that this project will serve to increase safety on passenger ships. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this project in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u185	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Commission for Energy and Treasury submitted a report on the draft law amending the Energy Law Act, print No 3501. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Prison Service modernisation programme in the years 2017-2020 (prints No 3519 and 3567). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of the meeting of 3 July this year on the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the "Programme of Modernization of the Prison Service" in the years 2017-2020. First of all, I would like to stress that for the first time since 1990, governments have dealt with the issue of modernising the Prison Service. For a very long time, there has been no specific financial expenditure for this service. The remunerations of the Prison Service officers were also very low, given their responsibilities, and only in 2016 did the United Right Government prepare a special bill, which is gradually implemented. This amendment is due to the fact that it requires further changes - the tasks of the Prison Service have been extended, which results from, for example, the amendment of laws such as the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, as well as recent amendments to the Enforcement Code and the Prison Service Act. I mean the Law of 12 April 2018. First of all, the level of employment in the Prison Service has been increased by 125 posts for Prison Service officers and 125 civil servants. As these tasks were accepted and extended, also on the basis of the Modernization Act, so I will determine, from 15 December 2016, the limit of posts in the Prison Service was increased. At present, it has 27,594 posts for officials and 1712,5 posts for civil servants in the Prison Service. Additional funding will be allocated in 2019 to strengthen the incentive system for the remuneration of Prison Service officers. To be distributed this year will be an amount of 1766 thousand. zł, including the payment of 1627 thousand. zł. Art. 1 of this project shall specify the amounts of expenditure per year, in the perspective of 2024. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, only a technical and editorial change was made, namely the introduction of paragraph 1. 1 and 2 in Article 2 1, which gives the amount of expenditure per year. Art. 2 sets the date of entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of its publication, i.e. there is not even the shortest, 14-day period, the date of vacathio legis, but this is justified and the public interest, and the interests of all the addressees of the Act, due to the possibility of increasing the salaries and allowances of the Prison Service officers and civil servants of the Prison Service as soon as possible. High Izbo! I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u187	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club supports the amendment of the Law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in 2017-2020. As Mr Matusiewicz has said, this is the first such law, the first such change for many years. We want the prison service to work better. We also want the Prison Service officers to make better money. I would like to remind you that the 2016 Act provided for inter alia. strengthening the incentive system for the remuneration of Prison Service officers, as well as increasing the competitiveness of civil servants' salaries, namely, on the one hand, the case of Prison Service officers, on the other hand, the case of civil servants working in prisons. The measures that were planned to implement this did not take into account the changes that Mr Matusiewicz was talking about and were calculated according to the conditions that prevailed in 2017, but because there was an increase in the number of posts in the service - as far as officers are concerned, there are 438 posts for civil workers, 125 posts - correction is needed, amendment of the law is needed. Additional funding of PLN 5 million has therefore been planned for the years 2019 to 2020, if this law is to be adopted of course. This increase in salaries for officers is PLN 438, for civil servants - PLN 300. In conclusion, it is good that this amendment has been prepared. The Law and Justice Club supports it and will certainly seek to improve working conditions in the Prison Service in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u189	Thank you. I don't see Mr Michael Honestly. I invite Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the The Kukiz Club15 supports the work on this project. We are pleased that we are leaning on an important issue, ensuring respect, dignity and prestige of working in the Prison Service. We will support this work. I hope that this project will be implemented quickly and will produce results for our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on amending the law on the establishment of the Prison Service modernisation programme in the years 2017-2020. This project is intended to provide a legal basis for the involvement of additional resources from the State budget for the implementation of the Prison Service modernisation programme in connection with the increase in the number of posts of officials and civil servants of the Prison Service in the years 2017 to 2018. An increase in the number of posts by 438 is expected for Prison Service officers and 125 for civil servants. And this is where you have to agree with the designers' assumptions, because, in fact, the number of jobs in prison requires decisive action. The media and public opinion are quite intrigued by the fact that in prisons there are things that shouldn't be happening, and this mainly concerns staff shortages. More resources will be needed to strengthen the incentive system of civil servants' salaries and increase the competitiveness of civil servants' salaries. For officials it will be over PLN 1.7 million in 2019 and nearly PLN 2 million in 2020, while for civil servants it will be about PLN 0.5 million in 2019 and 2020. New records and funding are a consequence, among others. taking over control of electronic surveillance by the Prison Service. The situation in this matter changed last year, when electronic surveillance came into the hands of the Prison Service officers as a result of the change of regulations. After the amendment of the rules, the Prison Service adopted the duties of patrols operating the entire system previously performed by a private company selected by tender. High Izbo! In view of the taking over of electronic surveillance by the Prison Service, it is necessary to adapt this formation accordingly to take over new obligations both in terms of staff and financial terms. It is also about securing measures to improve the competitiveness of salaries of civil servants and workers, which is justified when rates on the labour market are rising rapidly. This project is part of the objectives of the "Modernization Programme of the Prison Service" in 2017-2020 and complements it and therefore deserves attention and kind support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u193	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Szczerba has the floor. There isn't. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the electronic surveillance system. To entrust the Prison Service with supervision of this system is an obvious step. Only the state services should ensure that the penalties applied by the Polish courts are implemented, not by commercial operators. Citizens are also interested in the financial side of this project. The additional posts of officials and employees of the Prison Service are additional costs for the state budget. At the same time there is a cost savings in the form of not paying the costs of the existing system, in which the hired company performed these tasks. I ask you, on behalf of the voters, to know what savings have been made in this regard. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There are three penal establishments in the district of Lublin. The amendment of the Law on the modernisation of the Prison Service between 2017 and 2020 provides for an increase in the number of tasks and posts and, consequently, funds for modernisation. It is also apparent from the provisions of the Act that most of these measures will go towards an increase in remuneration. I have this question, Minister: In 2019, was there already a raise for prison workers, officers and civil servants? Will there be such a raise in 2020 too? If so, in what predictable average amount? It's also said in the bill, in the justification for the incentive system. Will it be a system that gives more opportunity to the directors of these prisons? Is it gonna be a system that centrally shows where these raises are supposed to be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u197	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law certainly fits in with the Prison Service modernisation programme. I'd like to ask what plans to build new prisons, new pavilions are like. Is the planned increase in prison service sufficient in the context of the expansion of prisons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u199	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michael Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u200	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for all your questions, also for referring to the bill, an important project, which is the next step strengthening the Prison Service. Some time ago, I took charge of the Prison Service, although I had the opportunity to help with certain tasks, among others. as regards the electronic surveillance system or financial matters that fall within the budget of the Ministry of Justice. Of course, this law, this project provides for the financing of certain posts in the number of 313, which result from the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the possibility of directing people convicted outside Poland to Polish prisons, to Polish penitentiary units. Of course, it's a condition. That the conviction is more than four months in prison. And these people have recently been taken over. There's a few hundred of them. Of course, it works both ways. And there are 250 posts, both officials and civil servants, as regards the electronic surveillance system, which Mr Pyzik asked, to which I would like to reply, that indeed, as Mr said, it is good that the electronic surveillance system is at the moment entirely dependent on the service or supervised by the Prison Service. Until recently, there was a situation in which private entities decided how certain issues related to the electronic surveillance system were being carried out in the field, and only the control panel was in Warsaw. We had the opportunity and we still have an insight into how a certain person moves, about which the court applied the electronic surveillance system. You have asked the Member about a number of issues, including: It's a cost-related case. Well, at first, I'd like to say there's about 5,000. persons in this electronic surveillance system. In the current revision, the revision of the Penal Code provides for an increase of the threshold to 1.5 years of imprisonment if there has been a sentence for imprisonment of up to 1.5 years. This amendment, which was currently under investigation, has recently been proceded in the Seym, the Senate, there is a provision which also applies to the electronic surveillance system. I would like to remind you that, in the current situation, it is still in the current legal state a system in which a sentence of up to 12 months of imprisonment would have to take place. Of course, the convicted person had the right to keep applying for electronic surveillance. If the penitentiary gives its consent and so decides, this electronic surveillance system will be used, in short, an electronic band that allows for imprisonment in conditions of liberty. This is also a signal, because recently in the media there has been a very thorough, very wide, deep discussion about the revision of the Penal Code. Somehow no one noticed that it also affected the issue of the electronic surveillance system. Why am I talking about this? Because we just want more people in this system. Of course, in the time of our predecessors, there was a collapse of this system at all, because completely different regulations were adopted. Only when the government of good change took place did we find it necessary to restore the possibility that people sentenced to imprisonment, not restrictions on freedom, could be punished in an electronic surveillance system. Today it's about 5,000. persons. You're asking about the costs. This is about 350 PLN per month, according to my knowledge, and I just spoke to the Director of the Department of Judgments and Trials, who said that these costs could be slightly higher. Regardless of everything, this is about 10 times less than in prison detention, in penitentiary units. Ten times less. Normally a monthly penalty, the cost of carrying out such a penalty in the penitentiary unit is about 3.5 thousand. zł. On the economic side, but also on the social side, it is known that not everyone can be punished in an electronic surveillance system. That's good, because if someone's convicted, and there's a possibility of imprisonment, it's a prison sentence, for example. for not paying alimony, it can normally work under conditions of freedom, do various things and for example. Pay your debt, not cost the taxpayer 3.5 thousand. zł and carry out this punishment in the stationary unit. On the issue of building pavilions, the Member asked if we had any plans for the new penitentiary units. Yes, sir, we have built 25 pavilions at a time of good change, and at the moment we are in the process of building 12 more pavilions, pavilions, in which people sentenced to imprisonment in this higher dimension can be punished. There are about 250 people in each of these pavilions. About 250 people in each of these pavilions may be located, so that these new places are of course several thousand. These units, these pavilions are located in the penitentiary units themselves, i.e. inside, and at the same time we also build production halls, where these people, for example. they can work, in accordance with our programme to modernise the Prison Service. And that's the answer to your question. On the third question, I have a problem here, sir, in order to give you a detailed answer. We'll try to answer in writing unless... If I may, I'll just take the latest data here. In 2018 - exactly PLN 137 per job, it is about accurate data, since January 2019 - PLN 605 per job, that's all. I spoke to the prison officers because I'm in charge of the budget in the justice department. I will also have a meeting today, so that we will address these issues. And finally something moved, after many years, you can say, something moved in this area. That's good news. A lot of officers talk to me, too, and they're happy. So here we promised that these salaries would be higher and they would be higher, significantly higher. So thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u201	Thank you, Minister. And you're welcome... Mr Matusiewicz no longer. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u202	I have the pleasure to present the position of the PO-KO club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in 2017-2020, print No 3519. The subject of the draft amendment of the Law of 15 December 2016 on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme for the period 2017-2020 is to amend the expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of the Prison Service modernisation programme. The amendment consists in determining the total amount of expenditure for the implementation of the programme for the years 2017 to 2020 with a breakdown per year and setting the maximum limit for the expenditure of the State budget for the years 2017 to 2026 resulting from the implementation of the programme with a breakdown per year. The amendment envisages an increase in the number of posts by 438 for Prison Service officers and 125 posts for civilian workers, with 11 posts transferred from the latter group to the Institute of Criminology and Penitentiary. The aim is to strengthen the incentive scheme for Prison Service officers by increasing the multiple rates of the basic amount as the average salary of Prison Service officers, increasing the competitiveness of the remuneration of civil servants of Prison Services. Patryk's flagship district, which oversees the Prison Service in 2016 and 2019, is in bad shape. Last year, SW officers protested along with other uniformed services. Deputy Minister Jak announced: Polish prisons await a revolution. How does it look today? Chaos, decomp and last year's police protest. 2017 was a record year. But this data, Deputy Minister Jak, doesn't show: - most robberies on duty - 112, - most fights and beatings among inmates - 1102, - most cases of drug possession and boosters - 1133, - most cases of abuse - drastic manifestations of prison subculture - 41, - no return of prisoners after work to the ZK - 255 did not return from work to the penitentiary. In the autumn of 2018, the Council adopted NSZZ Officers and Prison Workers joined the protest of uniformed services. Reason: staff shortages, low wages, overtime, fatigue, job burnout. One psychologist out of 200 inmates. Psychologists are unable to correctly diagnose the prisoner, conduct therapy and rehabilitation, prepare forensic and social forecasts. Lack of supervision, carelessness in issuing permits to prisoners leads to tragedy. On 8 September 2018, a double murder took place in Warsaw by a 40-year-old prisoner on leave. Convicted 15 years. A criminal convicted of murder. Victims: 35-year-old Monika and 3-year-old Oskar. First released on leave in 2016 - since then 92 times! Released by service to Deputy Minister Jaki for leave. Patrick Jak said, "I'm not a psychologist, I'm not a judge, and he hid his head in the sand. He was running away from responsibility. It wasn't me, it was the subordinates - he explained. In addition, the Ombudsman pointed out: - the absence of procedures to determine the manner in which the prisoner is to report that he has been subjected to or suspected of torture or violence; - a minimum of 3 m2 of living space in a cell, international standards are 4 m2 for single-person purposes, 6 m2 for multiple-person purposes; - non-compliance of prisons with physical disabilities; - poor offer of cultural and educational activities addressed to persons temporarily arrested and convicted; - the manner in which personal checks are carried out; - fatal prison health care - example: the case of Agnieszka Pysz; - lack of adequate diagnosis and psychiatric care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u203	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 38 hrs. 13 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the Government draft law amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions (Prints No 3520 and 3578). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions, prints No. 3520 and 3578. The first reading of the draft law took place at a committee meeting yesterday. The proposed regulation introduces a change in enabling people to take up training in the following fields: nursing and midwifery, as well as in the first degree studies conducted in a permanent form. At the same time, the draft law introduces a regulation on the possibility of receiving paid training leave for nurses and midwives up to 6 days per year, e.g. to participate in trainings, scientific conferences and scientific courses. According to the law in force, it is not possible to conduct first-cycle education in the following fields: nursing and midwifery in a non-stationary form, which in turn is possible in a uniform master's degree in medical and dental sciences. Education standards for courses: Nursing and obstetrics are defined, among others. duration of studies, minimum number of hours of classes and practices, as well as detailed learning outcomes, regardless of the form of study. Therefore, the proposed amendment ensures that the programme content of the first degree courses: nursing and obstetrics conducted in a permanent form and the number of hours in these studies will be the same as in the case of studies conducted in a stationary form. First-cycle education in the following fields: nursing and obstetrics conducted in a permanent form will be able to take up, first of all, working persons who wish to acquire new professional qualifications and to take up a job as a nurse or midwife. At present, there is an interest in education: nursing also by persons performing other medical professions, e.g. by paramedics or paramedics. This change will contribute to the implementation of one of the priorities adopted in the strategic and implementation document. National strategic framework. Policy paper for health protection 2014-2020, including the operational objective of supporting the training system of medical personnel in the context of adapting resources to changing social needs, and the Strategy for the Development of Nursing and Obstetrics in Poland of 2017. In 2015, the indicator on the number of nurses employed per thousand The population of the Republic of Poland was 5.2, while the average rate for the number of nurses employed was 1 000. The population in OECD countries was 9. In line with the strategy, one of the priorities is to take action to increase the number of candidates for nursing and midwifery, taking into account the quality of education. The priority is also to aim for an indicator on the number of nurses in the Republic of Poland to reach the level of the average index with the OECD, that was 9.4 for 2016, over a period of 15 years. This will allow, in view of the need for health care, an increase in the number of trained nurses and midwives due to the need to fill the generation gap that we are currently facing. The second major amendment contained in the draft law is the introduction of the possibility for a nurse or midwife to take part in training leave in order to constantly update knowledge and improve professional qualifications in forms other than those previously available, i.e. Specialized training, qualification course, specialized course and training course, as well as post-graduate training without referral, at the employer's request and with the employer's consent, up to 6 working days per year, paid in accordance with the rules applicable to the calculation of the remuneration for vacation leave. The length of training leave for nurses and midwives will be determined by the employer depending on the duration of the various forms of professional training. The draft law is one of the elements to improve the future situation regarding the number of nurses and midwives in employment. This objective is served by the government's efforts to increase the number of universities in which it is trained in the following fields: nursing and midwifery, increasing the number of students admitted, increasing the funding for education, improving the pay conditions, making the profession of nurse and midwife attractive. During the process of the bill, 3 amendments were notified and accepted. The whole draft, together with the amendments, was adopted by the committee with no objection. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request the support of the High House for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u205	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the government bill amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions, prints No. 3520 and 3728. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The main assumptions of the changes introduced to the above mentioned paragraph are: Laws allow more people to undertake training in the following fields: nursing and obstetrics in first degree studies conducted in a non-stationary form. The Act assumes that first-cycle education in the following fields: nursing and obstetrics conducted in a permanent form will be able to take up also working persons who wish to acquire new vocational qualifications and to take up a job in the above mentioned. It's a profession. I would like to stress that the proposed change ensures that the content of the first degree studies in nursing and obstetrics conducted in a permanent form and the number of hours in these studies will be the same as in stationary studies in these courses. The second amendment to the Act provides for additional training leave for nurses and midwives raising their professional qualifications in other forms than those referred to in Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act - i.e. Specialized training, qualification courses, specialized courses and training courses - up to 6 working days. This leave shall be paid in accordance with the rules applicable to the calculation of the remuneration for vacation leave. Additional training leave referred to in the proposed provision in Article. 61a, shall be entitled on request of the person concerned, after obtaining the consent of the employer. It should be stressed that the amendment introducing paid training leave is the implementation of an agreement concluded on 9 July 2018 between the National Trade Union of Nurses and Obstetrics and the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics and the Minister of Health and the National Health Fund. The amendments introduced by the Act are very socially beneficial and are in line with the "Strategy for the Development of Nursing and Obstetrics in Poland." These changes will help to increase the number of students in the nursing and midwife professions, and this has a huge impact on improving the quality of health protection. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends the changes mentioned above. the law and vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u207	No, you don't. [[No, it's not. We'll wait for Mrs. Gelert.]] We're waiting for Mrs. Gelert. Good. This while waiting, I cordially invite Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What a human situation is in the health system, I think we all know very well. We're not just short of nurses and midwives, we're short of all medical personnel. And the obvious truth is that patients won't treat the walls of hospitals, beds, or treat the state-of-the-art devices. That is why it is a step in a very good direction that the government reacts, for now in the case of one medical profession, or actually two, and opens up opportunities to train more people willing to take up this profession. Because in fact this law has two main directions, i.e. an increase in the number of students and, perhaps, going to the profession, and on the other hand - this is also an unnoticeable thing - we give the opportunity for nurses and midwives to be able to improve their qualifications. There is nothing to hide that the expertise of this staff, which is quite often ignored and underestimated, the expertise of nurses and midwives necessarily relieves doctors. It's from the patient's point of view, especially the patient who has experience in getting sick, if I may say so... We are aware of the important role that a nurse has in the entire treatment process and, of course, in the case of births of a midwife. The issue of nurses is, let's say, the easiest thing to do right now, because the question of doctors is much harder. But although I praise the government for this kind of project here, I do not see the idea of what to do - because not everywhere in Poland this situation is the same - so that from nurses who are going to graduate from future university graduates, those who have a diploma get into the profession. What I am saying at the moment is not unfounded, because in my hometown, in Kalisz, there is a nursing course in higher school and unfortunately this is not a good percentage when it comes to how many graduates, graduates go to work, even though there is great cooperation with Kalisz hospital and really is a good level of education. Why is this happening? Well, there are two Polish in this case. There is Poland A, i.e. big cities, Warsaw, Poznań, where nurses can't really get away from job offers and can be claimed in this case when it comes to salaries. There is also Poland B, where nurses go to smaller cities, such as my city or nearby cities, and it is not so fun anymore. Why? That's because there's a problem with the allocated money, for example, at POZ. In order to maintain reasonable cooperation with the patient, the POZ must have these two or three jobs, and the money it receives is actually enough for one job if we want to reward this nurse well. And let's not be surprised that nurses in this case are looking for other ideas to make money, and sometimes they just feed competitive - because it's competition - other health systems in other countries. And this is paranoia, because we educate with our money, with our taxes the staff, which necessarily, in the absence of motivation in Poland, travels abroad. And I expect the government to have an idea in this direction because he's not here yet. The fact that we will increase the ease of education through non-stationary studies and give the possibility of learning to nurses is very good, but it is not enough. I look forward - and the term of office is almost over - to the next pieces of legislation, which will at least allow for a gentle improvement, to reduce the staff drama that is happening in Poland at the moment. There is also nothing to hide that, when it comes to advancedness, when it comes to the average age of both nursing and medical staff, we are a record holder throughout Europe. That is why, of course, I congratulate this law, Kukiz.15 will support it, but we ask for more. We're really asking you to take care of medical personnel as if it's been required for years. It's late, but it's not too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas. The Member made his statement in writing. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, too. Mr Marek Ruciński, non-attached Member. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The increase in the number of nurses and midwives is clearly needed and should be one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health. Given that the average age of nurses in Poland is almost 51 years old, and that by the end of next year as many as 44% of them will receive pension rights, it is important to be aware that without real action the health situation will be critical. Today's government bill amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competition is about to counter this crisis. This law introduces the possibility of permanent training in the following fields: nursing and obstetrics. This seemingly seems to be a good solution that allows more people to study. However, as the Office for Sejm Analysis and, more importantly, the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics rightly points out, the problem may be to ensure the quality of education. As is currently apparent from the requirements laid down in the Regulation of the Minister for Science and Higher Education of 9 May 2012, students who have decided to study on a fixed basis must take part in 1100 hours of practical activities and have 1200 hours of apprenticeships. These requirements can be very difficult to meet in the case of non-recurrent students who work on a daily basis. The next step may therefore be to amend the regulation governing this number of hours, reducing it to a more realistic level for absentee students. However, this solution will lead to a reduction in the level of education of our nurses, and we want patients to have the best possible care. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to increase the number of nurses and midwives in Poland and to convince young people to take such a responsible job, we should first guarantee them decent working conditions and wages. The legislator made this attempt in this project because it is necessary to assess the additional days of paid training leave, but traditionally all the costs associated with this paid leave are borne by hospitals, i.e. de facto those who are not parties to the agreement. It's like the lens depicts the methods of governance in today's Poland: we promise, and others will pay. This situation is so dangerous that the equivalent for this leave is not included in any financial plans, and in the case of large centres these costs may be significant. This will deepen the financial crisis of many institutions. In conclusion, the projector wants to address the shortage of nurses and midwives only by seemingly increasing access to education in these areas or by reducing the level of education as a result of a reduction in the number of hours of practical activities. The costs of paid training leave to nurses and midwives under these provisions shall be transferred to hospital directors. I understand that the record debt of Polish hospitals does not make any impression on the Minister of Health and wants to screw up this very disgusting record. After all, paid leave will be additional costs not planned at the beginning of the year and not included in the calculation of the lump sum. What is worse, I suppose that in the future this fact will also be ignored in the calculation of the funds granted to hospitals by the NFZ. Such management of health funds will soon result in the bankruptcy of many hospitals, the closure of further branches, which will significantly reduce access to health protection for all patients, including us and our loved ones. If, in the middle of the accounting year, we introduce rules that are costly for many institutions, it is a matter of fairness to fund them in their entirety, and only then to start negotiations with institutions to co-finance these ideas. Despite my sincere support for the nurse's demands, while appreciating their work and commitment, which I myself observe in my ward, I cannot accept the adoption of a cost-bearing project by the party which did not participate in the discussion of these solutions, nor is it a party to the agreement concluded on 9 July 2018 which resulted in this law. I will therefore abstain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u211	Thank you very much. Has Mrs Gelert shown up? No. So we move on to asking questions. If any of you want to sign up, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Piotr Pyzik has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question: Is the fact that there are still very large inequalities in salaries in the Community labour market in nursing professions sufficient to achieve the intended effect in terms of the average number of nurses at OECD level? In fact, I could only stop with this question, while the experience of the previous term and this term shows that it is worth asking the following questions. Will nurses be included in contract calculations? Because this, at least in the previous term, was a very big problem. The question of re-bureaucratizing the work of nurses, so that in addition to the hard, very hard work they do, they don't have to do any office stuff, let's call it so subtle. The issue of the average age of nurses points to one thing, namely - I'm sorry that this is such an ugly name - the extinction of this area of our health care, as indicated not only by the average age of nurses, but also by what happens to nursing schools. My additional question, in addition to this rhetorical statement, is the following. Someone said it wasn't too late. This is what I hope for, but in the struggle for the future of our country it is extremely important - ugly is the name - the health sector. What is the chance of us reaching at least this OECD average level in time? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u213	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Furgo. But I don't see a messenger. Mr Paweł Rychlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The District Old Town in Wieluń as an organ leading the Independent Public Health Care Department in Wieluń took the initiative this year together with the State Medical Higher Vocational School in Opole aiming to open a local nursing department in Wieluń. I therefore have a question for the Minister. Will the selected solutions and changes affect the recruitment of nursing students, as well as whether the changes introduced will affect the quality of nursing training? Will the proposed change also have a positive impact on the labour market, where nurses and midwives are already very lacking today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u216	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The draft law aims to increase the number of students in the nursing and midwives professions and to adapt the number of people working in these professions to the growing needs of these services in the medium term. I have a question for the Minister: How does the legislator want to maintain the quality of education and, in particular, to guarantee not less hours of vocational training in permanent studies than the number of hours in a fixed form? The second objective of the proposed law is to introduce additional training leave for nurses and midwives. And I have questions here, too. Doesn't the legislator see the risk that the right to this additional training leave can aggravate existing staff problems in medical entities? How much money has the National Health Fund proposed to provide for health benefits carried out with nurses and midwives? Is it true, Minister, that employers were not a party to the agreement invoked by the government by the proposed amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u217	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The bill is uncontroversial, and it is actually going to improve the situation with regard to nurses. I think, and so I see from the work of our team on county hospitals, that the lack of medical staff, the absence of nurses and the absence of other medical staff is one of the fundamental problems. At this stage, I think that's the biggest challenge. And it's a good thing there's this bill. One of the representatives of the opposition said: we ask for more, and I know after working on this team that the government is taking these actions. I would ask the Minister to tell you about other activities that are aimed at increasing the number of nurses and meeting this challenge, because these actions will actually have an impact on the future of health care, on how patients will be protected in hospitals, especially with regard to the smallest, district hospitals, where these problems can be seen as in the lens and where they are larger. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u219	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Minister! When you look at the pages of universities in nursing and obstetrics, you can see that the interest in this profession is below expectations. I have a question: What measures does the Ministry take to encourage people to learn in this profession and to work later? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u221	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I ask the key question, Minister: Are we waiting for our last shift? This is the question that the Polish state must answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we have data showing that 44% in 2020 Nurses can retire. You could say that health care is pre-occupational. Recently Minister Szumowski participated in the European Economic Congress in Katowice, where he said these words: Without new nurses and nurses, we are threatening to eliminate the health system in Poland. We're signing off, Minister, under these words. Next year, 103,000. working nurses will reach retirement age. That's 44%. currently employed. It's almost 31% today. The nurses are over 60 years old. The situation of healthcare professionals is not much better, one in four doctors is at retirement age. Very low pay for hard work - this is the job of a Polish nurse. It's low wages, work overload, but also assignment of tasks not related to the profession, very difficult, for which nurses and nurses had to prepare. It is also a very low state expenditure on health protection. Let's remind you, 4.7%. GDP is spent on health protection when the Czech Republic puts 7.8%. This is a situation that should have us [[♪ The bell ♪]] encourage reflection. Public health should be a priority for the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u223	Thank you. Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u224	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to start by thanking you. This is an important bill and expected by both nursing staff, Mr. Midwives, but also by patients, because patients feel that we really don't have enough medical personnel, that we really have a huge shortage here. This deficiency is not a matter of the last 3 years, but it is a matter of long-term policy, many years of negligence in this area. There was a huge generational hole that began to form as early as the 1990s, when there was a huge drain of both nursing and medical personnel to other professions. The fact that today we create educational opportunities for related professions, such as physiotherapists, rehabilitators, and training in the nursing profession, is, I think, an excellent idea for us, as well as for those who would like to pursue this beautiful profession. But I have a question about these six days of vacation. Minister! Tell me if you're thinking about making another one in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] medical professions, such as physiotherapists, medical analysts, radiologists, were also able to obtain such a holiday to improve qualifications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u225	Thank you, Member. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u226	Minister! Some doubts about this law in connection with the introduction of permanent studies raised the question of whether the standard of education in these studies would be secured. It concerns both the level of teaching staff and the corresponding number of hours of practical, theoretical classes, etc. But I believe that the law obliges us to respect the standards of the Minister of Science and Higher Education and we can be calm that these issues will be under control, i.e. the quality of education in such studies will be under control. Not long ago, I was told that, in addition to increasing education opportunities, the number of universities that educate nursing and midwifery, the government also provides material incentives to receive some additional financial support in recent years - it may be called scholarships - and also in the first two years after the completion of such studies. Could the Minister say something more about this, because I think this is a very important matter? Thank you very much in advance for your answer. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u227	Thank you, Member. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And I invite you to ask Maria Nowak, the Law and Justice question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u228	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The fact that there are no nurses and midwives is a fact and thank you for thinking about it and facing these challenges. But my question is this: Isn't the ministry together with the Ministry of Education thinking about e.g. also introduce education in this area, certainly not full, but at secondary level? Isn't there a way back to nursing schools that used to be? And the other thing. There are young people who, for example, happen, don't pass Matura. Do we have a year-long, two-year school that prepares for this profession? Because it would certainly be an opportunity for those who, for various reasons, don't get their M.A.s and graduate from high school. If there are such schools, how many schools are there, and what does the Ministry think about doing in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u229	Thank you. And I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The parliamentary office is like a semi-confessional, you can say. We learn things that we don't necessarily want to know, because it's not good to know everything. I happen to be a five-term councilman of the Seym, on various social councils, and I know what's squealing in the grass. I would like to say, Minister, the following thing. Many of the problems we have in medicine, in health protection, and everyone cares about it, are for many, many years, as has been said, but as bad as it is now, it has never been. And I wanted to ask you this. Or doctors - 2.4% out of 10,000. The population, which is half as low as other countries, is going to arrive in some way? Most complaints, 80% It's on doctors right now, inappropriate handling, etc., etc. They're tired, those doctors, too. If, for example, We introduce e-prescriptions and an hour more must be spent on it, and for these people they have less time. I want to tell you about the escape of young doctors. We must definitely increase the number of places in universities in my opinion. It's necessary when it comes to doctors. As for young doctors, it's about stopping this with various statements. As far as salaries for nurses are concerned, it was clear from the social councils that these were beggars' salaries, slaves, I must say, which also showed the rank of this profession, much needed, and it will be a burden on the consequences if it is not the whole issue of rehabilitation, no doctors [[♪ The bell ♪]] various specialties, neurologists. Parkinson's disease, neurodegenerative is a nightmare, Minister. When do you think there will be an improvement, and how will this bill alleviate the issues that I have raised? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u231	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Furga, the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition, to ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u232	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, When you read the proposal for amendments to the Act on Nursing and Midwives, the most amazing thing is that the legislator is convinced that the changes made will change the image of this profession to any extent. We are to believe that suddenly, in hospital beds, nurses will arrive because they will receive the right to endless studies for which they will have to pay huge money, and an additional 6 days of paid training leave. By the end of 2020 44% The nurses will have the right to retire, and we are serving a cosmetic law that will further lower the standards of education and prestige of the profession. There is no possibility that the practical classes, which according to the law are to be the same for both modes of teaching, do not differ in professional skills. How can students in hospital practice only have the same skills on weekends that will be acquired by students in permanent practice? That's my question to the lawmakers. We all know that system solutions are needed to encourage graduates to work and stay in Poland. This professional dignity needs to be restored. If we are unable to stop nurses in Poland with a salary, then let us create a scholarship program, a grant program, [[♪ The bell ♪]] housing preferences and create circumstances that will motivate us to work in Polish hospitals and centres. Let us also involve local authorities in support of this programme. Let's not sit here on a bill that turns the cat's tail and pretends to make a difference. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u233	Thank you. This question and the previous questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u234	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much like to thank you for these questions, especially the opposition. I will have a unique opportunity to once again present to you the government's actions, because I see that you do not know or do not want to know at all. This law that we are presenting today is one of the many solutions that the current government has been systematically preparing and implementing for 3 years. It's a pity you didn't do anything during eight years of government. [[But nothing really?]] I'll give you the evidence. Mr Szczerba accuses the current government that he is not spending enough money on health protection. [[Yes.]] Of course, we committed 4.7% in 2018 gross domestic product, as you said. You just don't remember that in 2014, you committed 4.13%. gross domestic product. It was our government that first adopted a law that guarantees a systematic annual increase in health expenditures - up to 6% gross domestic product in 2024 The result of this law is the fact that this year we will spend PLN 100 billion on health protection. And in your time, in 2015, 72 billion PLN was allocated. [[But the system doesn't work, Minister.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another charge you're making is that nurses are going abroad. I'd like to remind you that in your time more than 10,000 have gone abroad. Nurses. In the last year, ladies and gentlemen, more nurses have applied to the vocational self-government of nurses and midwives for the right to pursue their profession than they have completed their studies. That means 100%. nurses obtain the right to pursue their profession in the Republic of Poland. Few of this, there are nurses in the system who have not worked in the system or have returned from abroad. Why did this happen? Because we've taken concrete, systemic actions that we've been doing for four years. First of all, we have set priorities, which are set out in the strategy, in the strategy paper on the development of nursing in Poland. In this document we have shown the directions of action. This isn't chaotic. These are planned, systematic actions. [[Applause]] We pointed out that the first element to be achieved is to increase the salary of nurses, because actually a few years ago salaries were pathetic. At the moment, the nurses are earning - of course, they should earn more - I think, dignifiedly. This is a remuneration of approximately 30% higher than about three years ago. We realized the supplement 4 times 400 and introduced an increase of 1100 PLN since September. That way we have more nurses in the system. We took care of the prestige of this profession, among others. preparing new products that will be financed by public funds - namely nursing advice, which will allow the use of high competences in this profession. Within this product, which will be financed separately, nurses will be able to use, among others. competences such as prescription of medicines, prescription of medicines, testing, physical examination, i.e. those which they acquire in the course of vocational training. Furthermore, we have taken concrete measures to encourage - here you have asked what actions we will take - secondary school graduates to work in this profession. We have taken such measures; among others, we have taken such measures. With the Chief Council of Nurses and Obstetrics, we are promoting this profession. This is a concrete project that is now starting and is being implemented. But we also encourage by making the education process more attractive. As far as this education process is concerned, you are suggesting that we launch a scholarship system. Ladies and gentlemen, we operate on a system and a scholarship system works. Already last year, we introduced such a project - support at start-up! - which can be implemented in nursing schools. It is based on the fact that we transfer funds under a contract to a school that educates nurses, to a scholarship of PLN 800 for each student since the second year of study. Last year we extended this programme even by the stage after graduation, i.e. the graduate who will complete her studies and take up work in the Polish public-funded health system, may receive an additional 1 000 for 2 years. zł, in addition to the salary that the employer will offer her. These are the elements that we've put into practice, they're being implemented by medical universities, and you just have to find out about it. I understand that this is a question asked to inform you. [[Yes, sir.]] We spend over PLN 93 million on start-up support. Universities that educate are interested in this and implement such programmes. Now what do we do to make it more? We have been taking very concrete action since 2015. In 2015, there were 74 universities in the country that trained in nursing, and now we have 98. Is there a difference? There it is. A 30% increase in the number of universities where nurses are trained. Thanks to our actions, we have managed to increase the number of universities by supporting the start-up process. We have increased the number of students who start their studies in the first year. In 2014/2015, the number of students entering nursing schools was 4723. This year's call is 6600. This recruitment will result in concrete effects in 3, 4 years. Thanks to these specific actions I am talking about, we have managed to increase the number of nurses in the system. These are also hard data from the Chief Council of Nurses and Obstetrics. [[How much?]] Of course, Mr, we had 213,000 in 2014 or 2015. Nurses, right now we have 232,000. nurses, so the number of nurses on the market increased by 20% in a short period of time. These are facts, these are data that come from records. These actions are effective. Indeed, we still have much to do. We would also like post-graduate education to have a wider range, and therefore we are increasing subsidies for specialisations. We have increased it, this year almost PLN 9 million has already been allocated to postgraduate training of nurses and midwives. As a result of the increased number of places in universities, there is funding from the state budget. It's not like we're increasing the number of seats, not transferring funds. Now it's a matter of vacation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received signals from nurses that there is a high demand for post-graduate education. Moreover, the criteria set out in the conditions for the provision of benefits show that nurses must constantly raise their education. We have decided to introduce as a general provision a 6-day training leave which a nurse can use for post-graduate education. On the other hand, we had information from the country that many employers, regardless of the regulations, introduced such a solution and, interestingly, it did not drive the employer into some powerful debt, because it is an investment in the employee. I would like to remind you that many jobs require appropriate post-graduate qualifications, specialization, qualification course or specialist training, and of course the employer can accept a nurse who has such qualifications, but it is a problem, but can also educate her own nurse, enabling her to do so, among others. by providing her with training leave. You also asked if we were going to change the scope of the activities of the nurses they perform in the hospital because they are too burdened with work that does not require nursing qualifications, administration. Yes, indeed, we introduced from 1 January the obligation for employers to employ medical secretaries and carers, because we have medical carers on the market, there are schools in the country that train healthcare professionals, while they were not employed in hospitals and nurses doing activities that they do not necessarily have to do, e.g. transport of the patient or transport of the test material. This isn't what a nurse should do. We have therefore made these regulations. Directors who have not seen such a need are now obliged by law because there is an appropriate regulation in this regard. To sum up, this is not a cosmetic change. This change is part of the implementation of a specific strategy, a strategy developed in 2016, which was adopted by the Ministry of Health's management. This strategy will now be adopted by the government in the form of a resolution, i.e. it will be a document which will be implemented by successive governments, in which we indicate what actions, during which period, must be carried out, so that we do not get to the situation to which one of the Members is calling here, namely the last on-call. We hope that these actions will not lead to this situation. [[44%.]] There were still questions about starting new schools. One Member signalled the issue of launching a new school in Wieluń. [[He's sitting right here.]] Thank you, sir. We worked together in this area and managed to run it. Of course, we would like to encourage local authorities, because they play a major role in the process of starting up education at the level of vocational higher education, to be active in this area. Many local governments show such activity, many local authorities decide on it, e.g. In the Dolnośląskie voivodship recently offers additional scholarships to students of nursing faculties. There are such good examples and practices here that could lead to improvements in the situation. I think that the joint actions of the government, local government, the professional self-government of nurses and midwives and trade unions will lead to the avoidance of circumstances in which patient safety will be compromised. This strategy is being implemented and has concrete effects in the form of an increase in the number of nurses on the market. We still have a lot of work to do... [[It's okay.]] ...and I invite you to support us in this process. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u235	Thank you, Minister. Mr Szczerba was the first to come forward on the issue of corrigendum. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From that bleacher, you said 330,000. Nurses, midwives, quote: Polish nurses earn decent money. Minister! I would like to quote specific data that are published on the list of salaries of nurses and midwives. 9th Group: Nurses and midwives who do not have the title of a specialist in nursing - 2496 PLN gross. That's the minimum wage. What does that mean? That means that mister nurses, midwives earn 15 zlotys gross for an hour's work. Group 8: Specialized nurses earn 2847 PLN gross. Ladies and gentlemen! Our health and life, which is what we have the most valuable, saves nurses for a dozen zlotys an hour. I also said, Minister, that in 2018 we exceeded the average age of a nurse, 52 years old. You gotta hit the alarm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can't just make sure there's no nurses on duty. The government and the Minister are responsible for this. [[Voice from the room: Where is the correction?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u237	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, also in the form of correction. You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: There was no such name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u238	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u239	It doesn't have to be mentioned, Minister. All you have to do is... [[Voice from the room: This is not a corrigendum.]] ... someone will refer to the content of the speech. According to the regulations, the name doesn't have to be mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! He's bragging about it, and he's happy to hear the words you said. But there's one thing the public needs to know. You function, we function, you function in completely different conditions. We now have an economic boom, and the Civic Platform has had an economic crisis under its rule, [[Game in the O.R.]] European and global. These are two different things. Whoever conducts business knows that it is of great importance. The same money in one and the other system are different things. The Civic Platform has left billions of zlotys for the state to enter so that you can achieve your goal. It's rare that the last government leaves money. Second thing. To increase the number of trained nurses, you need to prepare a certain number of educational places, etc. It takes time here. It won't be done in one or two months. Minister! Glory and hello, but I have one comment. The economic crisis is a different concept than the economic boom. These are completely different worlds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo came forward last in order to correct it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u242	I'm very brief, Marshal. You haven't answered one of the most important questions. I'd ask you to answer those questions to people. Are you prepared for 44% next year? Is the nurse gonna pass or retire? You say everything is beautiful and good, that all the programs are working, and I point out that the system isn't working. I would ask for a concrete answer to reassure Poles that in 2020 we are, as a country, prepared for 44% The nurses may not come to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u243	Thank you very much. I'm closing... Unless the Minister wants to address this further.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u244	Firstly, I would like to respond to the Member's comment. Mr President, what you quoted is an annex to the Act on the Minimum Basic Compensation of Workers... [[Yes.]] ...employed in medical subjects. This is an annex to the law that the current government has raised in order to ensure that the minimum remuneration of workers, I repeat: the essential, let's not mistake this with gross remuneration, is much higher than workers in other sectors of the national economy. This is the first sector regulation. Thank you for reminding me of this because I have the opportunity to inform you about this. This is the first sector regulation that guarantees health workers a systematic increase in basic salaries. This systematic increase in the manner set out in the Act will take place by 2021. We have certain minimum levels that were in force in 2017, and indeed as of the date of implementation of this law there was such a basic level of minimum basic remuneration. On the other hand, this law shows the way to change. It indicates that this basic salary will change from year to year. According to this law, the base amount is PLN 3900. This is the current government, Prime Minister Morawiecki has decided that the base amount from which we count indicators, which are a little complicated, so I will not talk about them... The base amount at the time when we prepared this resolution was PLN 3900. Today, the draft amendment of the law, which increases the base amount to the level of PLN 4200, is on the permanent committee. So this lowest amount automatically decreases. [[Because there's a boom.]] This is a concrete path to 2021. Just as the Member said. You can't change everything in two to three years, but we've shown the direction in which we're going to increase the salaries of not just the workers, not just the nurses, but the paramedics and all the medical staff. [[But the boom and the crisis? Please.]] Good luck. And let's not say that it's the nurse's minimum salary right now, because it's not true. [[There are nurses.]] On the other hand, as regards the question of the Member concerning the future of nursing, the future of the health situation, I have shown, ladies and gentlemen, how much we have done in this regard, and I still stress that much work is still ahead of us. The government has done a great deal in three years, and it also achieves concrete indicators. If the dynamics of change are what we are achieving right now and what it is founded, then our society should feel safe. We're doing everything we can to make it happen. It is a pity that such intense actions were not taken 5, 6, 7 or 8 years ago, because at the moment we would not have had the problem that 40% Nurses are reaching retirement age, which doesn't mean ladies are gonna quit, because we would like to do anything to keep these ladies and gentlemen on the market, and we're gonna be preparing solutions to allow nurses to work also above retirement age. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Hossa, bessa, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u245	Thank you very much. I am no longer giving the floor, sir. You had the right to be corrected. The Minister replied and this concludes the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project we are working on is to enable people to take up training in nursing and midwifery also in first-cycle studies in a permanent form and to introduce the possibility of receiving paid training leave for nurses and midwives up to 6 working days. In the opinion of the PSL Club, this is a good direction, taking into account the deficit of people who work in the above mentioned. competitions. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, there was a debate about patients' environments. It was about the vision of the reform of the health system. One of its elements was the introduction of new medical professions, such as a medical educator, but also the problem with the number of so-called. the average medical staff. Competitions such as a nurse Or a midwife is an aging contest. Today you should act two-trackly: firstly, pay attention to the link between the nurse's earnings and the doctor's earnings - this is what we talk about in our health pact program. Secondly, the recruitment and training of new medical workers. It is in our view that the amendment proposed by the applicants is intended to serve this purpose. Important issue: we hope that the proposed change ensures that the content of the first degree studies in nursing and obstetrics conducted in a permanent form and the number of hours in these studies will be the same as for studies conducted in a stationary form, because health cannot be treated on the head. At the same time, we continue to call for and call for a debate on the future of the health system. In our view today, governments conduct health policies on the basis of fire control. So I'm asking about a long-term strategy for the functioning of health care. Does the government have one? If not, I recommend a health pact by the Polish People's Party. Diagnosis is simple. And we have been talking about this since 2016, when we consulted on the Pact. The reform of health care can take longer than four years, so today all political forces should sign under this project so that the reform will not go away when the government changes. So I repeat the invitation to discuss, there are already proposals on the table included in our programme. We are waiting for the access of other formations, because in our opinion health protection should be a topic beyond the current divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law on the professions of nurse and midwife provides for two major changes: it also allows for training in nursing and midwifery also in first-cycle studies conducted in a permanent form and introduces a regulation on the use of paid training leave for nurses and midwives up to 6 days per year. How will the Minister react to the position of the Chief Nurses' and Obstetrics' Chamber, which requested that the current provisions of the Act be retained so that first-degree studies in nursing and obstetrics are conducted only on a stationary basis? In the view of the Minister, will the introduction of the provision in the proposed form not adversely affect the level of training of nurses and consequently the level of medical care provided?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions. This project aims to enable nursing and obstetrics to be trained in a first-cycle course in a permanent form. It is important that the thematic scope of these studies and the number of hours must be the same as the content and number of hours applicable to stationary studies, which is important for maintaining the quality of education in these fields. In addition, the possibility of receiving paid training leave for nurses and midwives is introduced up to 6 working days. The awareness of the need for changes and the introduction of good, effective solutions to address staff shortages in these medical professions has been in place for a long time. At present, the average age of working nurses is 53 years and a growing number of nurses receive pension rights from year to year. We live longer and longer, and we should be happy that we are also living more and more in good health. However, we know very well that the current demographic change poses many challenges, including the wider development of the health care system in Poland. Given the current and future demand, it is not difficult to say that we have too few nurses and midwives in Poland. I am pleased that, through concrete legal solutions such as this bill, the government is trying to fill these gaps. I am convinced that these regulations, together with salary increases for this professional group, can effectively encourage young people to choose this profession first and also to stay in the country after their qualifications have been completed. It is worth noting that the provisions on paid training leave for nurses and midwives contained in the new regulation are part of the implementation of the agreement of 9 July 2018 between the National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics and the General Chamber of Nurses and Obstetricians and the Minister of Health and the National Health Fund. This project is, in my opinion, an important step in supporting our medical training system. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u249	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy Affairs and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Energy Law Act (prints No 3497 and 3501). Mr Maciej Małecki will present the report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the parliamentary draft law amending the Energy Law Act. The Commission worked on this document at two meetings. The first reading was held on June 12th. Then there were amendments tabled by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office and they were discussed until today's meeting, when we considered the entire draft law. 7 amendments were tabled. The Commission has accepted these amendments and recommends to the High House that we adopt this very important document regulating the Polish interests in our section of the Jamaican pipeline. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u251	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Małecki will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Energy Law Act. The amendments proposed in this draft law complement and clarify the provisions we find in the Energy Law in the Act of 10 April 1997. The obligations of the transmission system operator, the distribution system operator and the connected gas system operator as well as the powers of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to shape the relationship between the owner of the gas transmission network and the operator of the gas transmission system will be specifically clarified. In our section of the Jamal gas pipeline we have the following situation: the owner of this section of the gas pipeline is EuRoPol GAZ, whose significant co-ownership is Russian Gazprom. The operator of the Polish part of Jamał is Gaz-System - here was appointed by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office until 2025. The current agreement on the delegation of obligations to the operator of the Jamal pipeline, which was concluded by Gaz-System and EuRoPol GAZ, which also regulates the mutual relations between companies, expires at the end of this year, on 31 December. It should also be noted that the content of the agreement currently in force does not allow Gaz-System to perform all the functions of the operator of the jamal pipeline, inter alia. with regard to the handling of gas pressing plants or the operation of the IT system, and thus is incompatible with the Polish interest and European law. Therefore, there is a serious risk that the signing of a new trust agreement, but one which will safeguard Polish interests and be compatible with European law, will be blocked by the Russian shareholder of EuRoPol Gazu, that is, Gazprom, and thus would not have any trust agreement since 1 January 2020, and Poland would have even less influence over control of the jamal pipeline in our territory. The bill that the High House will adopt, which we strongly urge as Law and Justice, is faced with this threat. It will oblige the parties to conclude the relevant agreement and, at the same time, it is very important, equips the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to determine the terms and conditions of the new delegation agreement by way of a decision which would not have been concluded between Gaz-System and EuRoPol Gaz 30 days before the expiry of the current agreement. In addition, the draft contains provisions allowing enforcement of the decision under the rules on enforcement in the administration. I stress that the project in no way impedes the transit of gas by the jamal gas pipeline, nor does it affect in any way the contract for the supply of natural gas to Poland concluded between PGNiG and Gazprom, i.e. by Gazprom, in force until the end of 2022. The project, although it affects very narrow matter, will have very serious consequences, because it will increase the energy security of Poland very much. And this is a priority of Law and Justice, strengthening the energy security of Poland. The less Russian influence on the gas system of Poland, the better. Of course, law and justice support this project and I encourage the entire High House to do so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u253	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Bańkowski from the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club to present his speech on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the Energy and Treasury Commission on the draft law amending the Energy Law Act, print No 3497 and 3501. The bill entered the Sejm on 7 June 2019. On 10 June, it was sent to the first reading in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. The project was examined at meetings on 12 June and 4 July. The amendments proposed in the draft law are intended to supplement and clarify the provisions of the Act of 10 April 1997. Energy law concerning the obligations of the transmission system operator, the distribution system operator and the connected gas system operator, as well as the powers of the national regulatory authority, i.e. the President of the Energy Regulatory Office in relation to the relationship between the owner of the gas transmission network and the operator of the gas transmission system or the operator of the connected gas system. The draft contains proposals for amendments to the Article. 9c, 9h and Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2th Energy Law Act. Art. 9c determines the obligations of network operators. The proposed amendment to this provision consists in the addition of paragraph 1. 6b, which is to provide that, in the event of delegation of responsibility to the gas transmission system operator, gas distribution operator or gas connected system operator, that operator in its area of operation shall be responsible for issuing the terms of connection and for concluding and implementing the connection agreement. Art. The 9h of the Act lays down the rules for entrusting the transmission system operator with its duties. The amendment of this provision consists in the introduction of provisions relating to a situation where the President of the Energy Regulatory Office designates an energy undertaking as a gas transmission system operator on a specific transmission network for a longer period than the duration of the contract entrusting the transmission system operator with the use of that network. In such a situation, as proposed by the applicants, the transmission network owner would be obliged to conclude an agreement with the railway operator entrusting the transmission system operator with carrying out its duties. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act - it defines the scope of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office - applicants propose amendments to it, which are a consequence of changes in the article. 9h bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the draft law contains transitional provisions. The proposed law is to enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal. With regard to the proposed amendments, it should be noted that the decision of the President of the URE to designate the gas transmission network operator under the current provisions of the Energy Law does not fully regulate the rights and obligations of the electricity undertaking and the owner of the network related to the operation of the transmission network operator by that undertaking. It is therefore necessary to conclude an agreement between the owner of the network and the energy company. The draft law also introduces the possibility for the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to issue a provision which, pending the final conclusion of the procedure for the adoption of a decision replacing the contract entrusting the transmission system operator with the obligations of the gas transmission system operator, will specify the conditions for entrusting the transmission system operator's duties to ensure continuity in the performance of the operator's functions. The transitional provisions provide that contracts entrusting the performance of the obligations of the gas transmission system operator concluded between the owner of the gas transmission network forming part of the transmission system, which on 3 September 2009 belonged to a vertically integrated undertaking and an energy undertaking licensed to carry out business activities in the field of the transport of gaseous fuels, before the date of entry into force of this Act until the expiry of those contracts, shall apply the provisions of the Energy Law as it stood. In view of the nature of the regulation in question and the urgent need to supplement the provisions of the Energy Law, applicants propose that the Act enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Law. This calls for the security of the gas transmission system and the possibility of using it. The draft law does not entail a burden on the state budget or budgets of local government units, does not provide for the issuing of implementing acts, is compatible with European Union law, does not affect the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and medium-sized enterprises, nor has it been consulted. During the examination of the draft law, seven amendments were tabled, which are based on comments submitted by the Energy Regulatory Office and are editorial and legislative in nature. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, I would like to inform the High House that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u255	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski will present his position. Before doing so, allow me to greet the guests, members of the senior club from Rymanowa, who came to Warsaw to the Sejm at the invitation of Mrs Joanna Frydrych. I wish you a successful stay in the Sejm, a positive experience and a pleasant stay in Warsaw. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And now Mr Andrzej Maciejewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on behalf of the parliamentary draft law amending the Energy Law Act, print No 3497. First of all, I would like to announce that Kukiz15 supports this project. We will support the work on this bill. I am pleased that energy security is consistently a priority of the Polish government, that it is taking a selling-out action, not waiting to be completed. This action is thoughtful and consistent, which is why I would like to thank the applicants very much. At the same time, I am pleased that on our ground, on the basis of both this debate and the discussions in committee there is the concern of all clubs for energy security and a very serious approach to this issue. The Kukiz Club15 supports and will support the project. I hope this will keep us safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u257	Thank you. We move on to the questions at this item. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members like to be on the list? I don't see any further reports. So I'm closing the list. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice, begins. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On the occasion of this submission, I would like to ask the Minister: Is work being done to support the construction of gas infrastructure in areas where the connection on commercial terms is not viable for distribution system operators due to investment costs? Such mechanisms, as they appear, could be effective in the fight against smog. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u259	Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, I have two things I wanted to ask you. Namely, first of all, we know that energy security is one of the most important challenges facing our country, while I have read this bill and I have two questions. First question: Why these contracts of the owners of the gas transmission network, which are concluded with the operator of the gas transmission system, are concluded for a period of not more than 3 years, i.e. Why is such a period proposed and not for example 4 or 5 years? Wouldn't such longer contractual periods be more stable in such a project? And a second short question. That's what we should always ask. Why has an amendment to the Energy Law, even as specialised as the one that is here, not been consulted? I'd like to ask you that, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u261	Mrs Maria Nowak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u262	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question does not exactly concern this amendment, but I will ask it on behalf of the Chorzów residents, especially the Chorzów Stary district, because it is a very big problem for the inhabitants of this district. Namely, power plants, CHP plants are obliged to burn biomass. Biomass, which is stored in prisms, especially during summer, makes life difficult for residents. The stench from the prism in which this biomass is stored is unbearable even within a 1.5 km radius of a given power plant, and here I am talking specifically about the CEZ power plant in Chorzów. And that is why I have this question, and if the Minister cannot answer immediately, I would ask for a written reply: What are the standards for this biomass, what are the standards for biomass collection? I think it's if... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know that this question doesn't concern... [[Not that minister.]] Not that minister. Then I'm going to address this question on behalf of the residents of another ministry, because it's a problem that makes life difficult for everyone in this district.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u263	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The bill amending the Act Energy Law is a very important project, because it regulates the extremely important issue of energy security of Poland. And I am absolutely in favour of proceding this project and ensuring energy security, and overtaking all the activities that are needed, but, ladies and gentlemen, such an important project that it was a parliamentary project, it never happened, never happened. Firstly, it is a parliamentary project, and secondly, it has not been consulted, which is at all on such important matters, I find unacceptable, and thirdly, it is without any vacathio legis. After all, I have heard in your statements that the problem [[♪ The bell ♪]] it will be up to date at the end of the year, while the law will enter into force on the day following its adoption. I think it's frivolous treatment of such an important matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u265	This and previous questions will be answered by the government's representative for strategic energy infrastructure, Mr Piotr Naimski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Maybe. This law is an important law because it regulates the relationship between the transmission system operator and the owner or owners of the infrastructure and the agreement that governs the relationship, whether the agreements that these relationships regulate, first, must be under the control of the Energy Regulatory Office and secondly, the Energy Regulatory Office must have a tool, must be able to replace its decisions with a non-contractual agreement if it could occur. From this point of view, this law, this parliamentary bill, is indeed in demand, in need, in what should be introduced in our regulatory system at the moment. The matter of this law is so specific that it seems unreasonable to consult the public. This law does not directly affect social relations, local communities, those who normally participate in consultations with other laws or other laws. This is a purely technical legislative move that will enable the Energy Regulatory Office to comply with this legal regime, which will have to apply from 2020 and beyond. This seems to be a sufficient argument for this law to be adopted in such a way, for which I thank the High House and the committee. With regard to specific questions, the limitation of up to 3 years, this is a situation where these trust agreements appear to be subject to revision or addition. The market situation, as well as the technical situation, technical conditions may be subject to change. The aim is to ensure that the scope of operation, the duration of the contract does not limit these possibilities in the future, these perhaps desirable changes. And that's it. As for Mrs Nowak's question, indeed biomass is not the scope of my competences and responsibilities. [[Excuse me...]] Ask your colleagues in the government who deal with these issues. As regards Mrs Czernow's belief in the importance of this amendment, I simply agree with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u267	Thank you. Mr Małecki, the rapporteur of the committee, also expressed his willingness to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear country, here is the basic thing: Poland has a limited impact on the gas pipeline, which runs through our territory and is pressing Russian gas, whether to Poland or beyond. At the end of this year, the agreement between the operator, Gaz-System, and the owner of this pipeline, EuRoPol Gaz. In EuRoPol Gaza, the situation is that due to the decision of our predecessors, the Platform Government and PSL, the key decisions of the company require unanimity, i.e. the approval of part of the board delegated by Poland and Russia, i.e. PGNiG, and Gazprom, and it is clear that the Russian party will not seek Polish interests. Today we have the opportunity to correct this situation and at the same time adapt these principles to European law. And here the public consultation would practically not touch anyone, except Russian Gazprom maybe, so to speak, it would be a party that would certainly be willing to take part in such consultations. I appeal to the entire High House to make sure that, as a matter of what, the issue of energy security of Poland and the next step in the release from Russian gas domination... that in this House such laws are adopted unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u269	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence (prints No 3483 and 3559). Mr Jacek World will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Committee on Culture and Media 2 July this year considered the presidential bill amending the Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act establishing the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. I would like to remind you that the essence of the project is to extend to 2022 the activities of the Committee of the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and consistently extend by one year the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. The time for adoption of the Committee's action report shall therefore be postponed to 2023. The Committee on Culture and Media, with 13 votes in favour and two abstentions, adopted the draft without amendment and makes such a recommendation to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u271	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And Mr Jacek Świat will present his position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the presidential draft law amending the Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. High Izbo! President Andrzej Duda once said: "I am firmly convinced that the century of regaining independence is a matter close to the hearts of all Poles. I very much want the anniversary to become a celebration of the entire Polish community and that each of us, citizens of the Republic, should feel invited not only to participate in celebrations and other anniversary events, but above all to co-create them. I think it's safe to say that Mr President's words have come true. They have fulfilled themselves in thousands of larger and smaller international, national, but also very, very local initiatives. In a large part, these activities are supported or even incorporated by the Government's.Independant programme. An important part of this celebration is the functioning of the national committee of celebrations of the 100th anniversary, the pluralist body, which combines various political, ideological, social and professional environments. One of the most important initiatives of the Jubilee is to honor the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence of people who deserved well to regain, consolidate Polish independence, sovereignty, as well as Poland's fame in the world. These medals have already been awarded almost 800. It is worth continuing this good work, but there is an opportunity or basis for it. After all, it was only in 1922 that the process of shaping the Second Republic ended. I will remind you that in June of that year the Polish Army entered the plebiscite area of Upper Silesia. Only then did the installation in Upper Silesia of the Polish administration begin. So let us recall President Duda's words again: I would like us to remember the historic anniversaries, not so much as to go back 100 years, but maybe even more. thinking ahead - towards the challenges we are facing, which we are facing and which we can successfully face by building a strong, free Poland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, supports the bill submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u273	Thank you. I invite Mr Mark Wójcik, who will present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club in relation to this bill. Well, I'm happy with the bill because it takes into account some historical truth, i.e. the fact that Silesia was joined to the Second Republic of Poland in 1922. The Act extends the celebration of the century of regaining independence by a year, i.e. to 2022, and also extends the duration of the Medal of the Recovered Independence Centennial. The problem is that today's bill would have been unnecessary if a year ago, in June 2018, my amendments and arguments had been taken into account in the discussion on the Act establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century. At that time, the Members of the PiS, Members of the parliamentary majority, completely unnecessarily rejected the amendments. The result of this parliamentary debate last year and this discussion on the history of Upper Silesia is an attempt to correct the error that actually occurred in the organization of these governmental celebrations, a mistake which is directly due to the failure to take into account the specifics of Silesian history in the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. And the first sign that you want to withdraw from this mistake was the amendment of the resolution of the Council of Ministers creating the "Independant" programme. Such a change took place after this parliamentary debate in August 2018. In fact, it extended the application of the programme to 2022 to include the 100th anniversary of Silesia's accession to Poland. The bill we are debating today is another step in order to actually give away this historic justice. It seems that someone who had previously prepared the governmental celebrations of the century of regaining independence was in such a misconception, which unfortunately is quite common in Poland, that Silesia was joined to the Second Republic immediately after the Third Silesian Uprising in 1921. It is worth reminding that this was not the case, because historical truth is simply different. Decisions concerning the future of Silesia took place later, and in June 1922, Allied troops were stationed in its territory. Only on June 20, 1922, the Polish Army entered the Szopinice. Moreover, then the construction of the Polish administration began in Silesia. The Polish Army has been very solemn and very colourful in many cities for the following days. We remember these events in Silesia, often try to recreate them. Perhaps the Minister does not know that the greeting of Polish troops often looked so that such special reception gates were set up in Szopinice, in Katowice, in Chorzów, in many towns. This is something we remember. We often try to recreate these installations on the occasion of various kind of round anniversaries about these events. We would like to be remembered in Poland, as we remember in Silesia, e.g. about the Wielkopolska Uprising, about other important anniversaries from the history of Poland. We would also like to remember our Silesian history in Poland, which is slightly different from the history of other regions. Gentlemen of Ministers! As I mentioned, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will support this amendment. I think it's better late than never. On the other hand, next time, we ask for some greater openness to the arguments we are discussing at the Sejm committee meetings and more openness to the amendments that we are making in the legislative process. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u275	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Jaskóla to present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u276	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It'll probably be the shortest support. We support the President's proposal as a Kukiz club15 in its entirety. I only have one, maybe two notes. The first - perhaps we should consider, Minister, about 1923, because then these borders were finally confirmed by the Council of Ambassadors. And the second thing - I hope that the President will one day take the task of rebuilding another Polish order, the Star of Persistence Order established after the November Uprising, which has been waiting for almost 200 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u277	Thank you. And Mr Michał Kaminski. But I do not see Mr Kaminski, who was to appear on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats. So we begin to ask questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I invite Mr Jarosław Goncier, the Law and Justice, to ask the first question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u278	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Recovering Poland's independence was closely related to the struggle for borders and the formation of borders. The individual parts of Poland were connected to it during different periods. The bill indicates that Upper Silesia was joined to Poland in 1922 when the Polish Army entered Poland on 20 June 1922. But another region was joined in 1922, namely Vilnius. On 6 April 1922, the law on the taking up of state power over the Vilnius land was passed. On 17 December 1929, Józef Piłsudski became an honorary citizen of Vilnius. Since these two regions were joined in 1922, it is appropriate to extend the implementation of the Committee's tasks until 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u279	Thank you. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my satisfaction that it has been formulated in recent years, among others. I have found the understanding and anniversary of the rejoining of Upper Silesia to Poland in 1922 to be duly commemorated as part of the national celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. The Silesians, especially the proud descendants of the insurgents, are simply due, especially in times in which the enemies of Poland try to undermine the Polish identity of Silesia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u281	Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask the last question at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A question for Minister Sellin. In March this year in Katowice, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that government money would be earmarked for the celebration of the century of the Silesian Uprising. We welcome this announcement with great satisfaction, but after the interpellations which I directed to the Ministry which you represent, as well as after the interpellations to the Prime Minister, it turned out that the money for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the Silesian Uprisings is the money that is written in the program Minister! I would like to appeal to reserve a little more money for these celebrations, because this is a century of really important events, taking into account the history of Silesia and the history of Poland as a whole. I think it is worth doing everything to talk about the history of the First, Second and Third Uprising, but also to connect Silesia to Poland, to speak at least as much as to the history of the Greater Poland Uprising. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is also an appeal for the Minister to simply remember these anniversaries and to take them into account when drawing up the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u283	First, Mr Andrzej Dera will speak at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u284	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to thank you very warmly for the support of President Andrzej Duda's proposal to amend the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. I want to explain a point to Mr Mark Wójcik. I remember perfectly how we talked and discussed that it was 1922. As for history, no one here will question, of course, because these are facts. The point is that we were already talking about the fact that it is impossible to separate the act on national celebrations from the establishment of a medal, that it must be connected. And that is why, when you rightly pointed out that there was a need to extend the celebrations by 1922, we said that we would do it at the same time, we would combine these two events to make it compatible. I remember discussions in the Senate, very long, with this first bill. Let me remind you that chronologically we first established a law on national celebrations of the 100th anniversary and there was the border date of 1921. There were great discussions, even in the Senate, and then no one asked as much as you did, that we should take into account 1922, because it was only then that the Polish administration was formed in Silesia, and there is no doubt about it. But there were not as experienced experts in Silesian history as in the Seym. The Lord then pointed out that this should be done and we accepted it, only we wanted to do it in such a combined form. The point was not just that we would suddenly have a bill that said that we would give medals a year longer and that this would not be included in the National Celebration Act. So we put it together, we did it together, that's why it's a submission. Besides, we also said that we had some time, because 2022 would be three years from now. Looking at the celebration of June, we can say that in 3 years we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the state administration, that is, our Republic of Poland in Silesia, in these final areas. Because it's known that it was a historical process. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you very much for supporting this project. I think that together, together, we will all, as we have so far, as a nation we will celebrate beautifully, because all these celebrations are still going on, the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, and that it is decomposing in time, that is unfortunately our story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u285	Thank you very much. The Minister is also speaking. Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! First of all, I would like to inform you that the government supports - and expresses its positive position - the draft presidential law presented here. This is indeed compatible with the decision taken by the government, first of all, to launch a multi-annual government programme, the Independent, to appoint a government representative to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence - this function I have the honour to hold - and to implement this programme since 2017. This was originally to last until 2021, but indeed, as Mr Wójcik mentioned in August Ub. We decided, also because of the demands of Silesian activists, to extend the implementation of this programme until 2022. This was also discussed at the meeting of the honorary committee of the national celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence and the Presidential Committee, which had met several times. I have the pleasure of being the secretary of this committee and on this subject. There was also a lively discussion there. So that this is consistent with government regulation, which is implemented in this respect for 6 years. The Presidential Act is now also adapted to such a deadline. To answer specifically the questions that have been raised here... It may not even have been questions, but I would like to inform Mr Wójcik that before the building of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is such a nice building from the 18th century, which survived the war hecatomb, one of the few original buildings of that time. Her name is Cordegarda. This is the building in which we have a gallery of exhibitions and these exhibitions are organized both inside and outside this building, so that many passersby and those of the country, and those foreign ones who are walking Krakowskie Przedmieście, such a salon in Warsaw, can learn various interesting things. And that's where we presented last year an exhibition on Silesian triumphal arches welcoming the Polish Army entering Silesia in 1922. It was a very nice exhibition of often unknown photographs coming from the photographic part of the Archive of New Acts. This exhibition was presented and eagerly watched by walkers. As regards the money spent on various events related to the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, I would like to remind you that the multi-annual Independent Programme consists of three pillars: a pillar dedicated to events reported bottom-up, a pillar related to events planned by the central institutions of culture and a pillar related to foreign events and implemented by the Adam Mickiewicz Institute. It is the bottom-up activity that depends to a large extent on whether there are applications, applications for the You surprised me with that question, so let me answer you in writing. I was able to quickly consult with the director of the independent program office and he managed to inform me before I was called here, to the stand, that for example. The Silesian Museum in Katowice received 600 thousand. PLN for the organization of various events connected with commemoration of the Silesian Uprisings, also exhibitions about women from Silesia, about brave women from 100 years ago - 250,000. zł - and he wanted to keep informed, but I had to go into the bleacher. Then I'll inform you in writing. This is a program where various types of NGOs, local governments, cultural institutions or voivodships can apply. It concerns events connected with the commemoration of the Silesian Uprisings, already at this moment - the First Silesian Uprising of 1919, and it will certainly also concern the uprisings of the following years, from 1920 and 1921. I'm sure there's a lot of that going on. The application to the Independent program is also a lot and they obviously meet with great kindness. I think that these three uprisings from the following years are the leading events connected with Poland's regaining independence, but this is also about the 100th anniversary of regaining Poland's access to the sea in February 1920 or about the great events that await us next year, connected with various phases or episodes of the Polish-Bolshevik War, and especially with the Battle of Warsaw of August 1920, by many historians considered to be one of the most important battles in our history. So there are a lot of these events, of course, but these Silesian anniversaries are also honored and if there are applications, if there are bottom-up initiatives, then they are willingly supported by the office of the program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u287	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament (prints No 3489 and 3506). Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, print No 3489. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for first reading on 4 June 2019. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, following its first reading and examination of the draft at its meeting on 12 June 2019, requests the High Sejm to adopt draft resolution from print No 3489 without amendments. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure consists in the extension of the Rule. 175 by the addition of paragraph 1. The following 8 shall be added: Until the Member has lodged an appeal, the Marshal of the Sejm may waive his decision to exclude the Member from the sitting of the Sejm. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The institution for excluding a Member from a Sejm meeting shall be governed by Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 5, 6 and 7 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. According to Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, where a Member, after twice referred to the Sejm, continues to prevent proceedings from being held, the Marshal of the Sejm shall have the right to decide to exclude a Member from the Sejm meeting. Member excluded from the meeting of the Sejm is required immediately leave the sitting room, and if he does not, the Marshal of the Sejm shall manage the adjournment. The exclusion from the meeting of the Sejm is one of the procedural powers of the Marshal or Vice-Marshal of the Sejm in respect of Members. According to Art. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm excluded from the Sejm may appeal against the decision to exclude it from the Sejm Bureau, which shall settle the matter without delay after consulting the Rules of Procedure, Parliaments and Immunities Committee. Until the final settlement of the case, the Member shall not take part in the sitting. The Sejm shall inform the Sejm immediately of the manner in which the appeal is to be taken, but no later than at the next meeting. The decision of the Sejm Bureau shall be final. Currently, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm do not provide for the possibility for the marshal or vice-marshal to withdraw from the decision to exclude a Member. However, it seems that the excluding Member from the meeting of the Sejm should be able to withdraw from his decision. That's what purposeful considerations speak for. In some cases, maintaining the decision to exclude a Member from the meeting of the Sejm may prove less effective than withdrawing from that decision for the purpose of bringing order to the session of the Sejm. For sometimes, from the point of view of the aim of this institution, concerted action may be more effective, which will result in the withdrawal of the Marshal or Vice-Marshal from the decision to exclude the Member and, on the other hand, in the cessation of the conduct of the Member preventing the proceedings from taking place. The draft foresees that the Marshal of the Sejm will be able to waive his decision to exclude a Member from the Sejm's meeting until the Member has lodged an appeal. The decision to exclude a Member from the meeting will only be open to the Marshal or Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, who originally took this decision. Only in such a case shall this be without prejudice to the provisions providing for an appeal procedure against the decision to exclude a Member, i.e. Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Secondly, it seems that too far-reaching interference with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm concerning the appeal procedure would be allowed to withdraw the decision to exclude from the sitting after the Member has lodged an appeal with the Sejm Bureau. In such a situation, i.e. It seems that the Bureau will have the exclusive opportunity to raise the decision to exclude a Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u289	Thank you. We begin to discuss this item on the agenda. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u290	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the changes proposed in the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u291	Thank you. I invite Mr Tomasz Głogowski to present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u292	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club in relation to the draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. This is an amendment to Article. The introductory paragraph shall be replaced by the following: 8, which gives the marshal the opportunity to withdraw his decision to exclude him from his deliberations before he makes an appeal against that decision. This is a change worthy of support and the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will vote for this change. Moreover, it is due to the fact that such a situation has taken place. One of the Vice-Marshals canceled his decision to exclude a Member. He didn't have to... This possibility has not yet been explicitly recorded in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, so it should be recorded. It is always worthwhile to provide the opportunity to reflect on your decision or reflection on it, whether at a time when emotions will fall, or when, as my previous speaker said, it will be advisable to withdraw from this decision in view of the efficiency of the proceedings. Moreover, the history of this term shows that the failure to withdraw from the hasty decision to exclude a parliamentarian from the proceedings can cause a long-term parliamentary crisis. I just wanted to point out one more thing, it was raised during the work on this resolution at the committee meeting. In the justification for the draft resolution, the applicant shall specify the right both to be removed from the deliberations and to withdraw that decision to the Vice-Marshal conducting the deliberations. And that's not the kind of thing I'd object to either. It seems logical that such interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is applied, that the Vice-Marshal conducting the proceedings also has such authority, but this is not simply stated in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I present this problem as worth thinking about, perhaps it is worth thinking about, because as you read literally the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, you can see that so far the exclusion from the proceedings and the cancellation of this decision is due to the Marshal of the Sejm. Perhaps it is worth noting in any subsequent amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm that such powers are also available to the Vice-Marshals conducting the proceedings. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki will present the position of the Kukiz club15. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Aren't you going to introduce me? Good. Then we'll proceed with the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. I'll close the list then. You are starting with Michael Szczerba. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The State in this term of office corrects, amends, discusses the Sejm. What's the point of all this if you don't follow it anyway? Now you're changing the exclusion clause so you can get the MP back. After all, you only exclude Members of the opposition. I haven't noticed that he's ever been punished by a member of the ruling coalition. You do not follow the rules of procedure, President Duda has passed the Penal Code Act to the Constitutional Court because it has great doubts as to whether the procedure for adopting the Law was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You do not observe it, so why change it, correct it, and create the impression that it means anything to you? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u295	Rapporteur for the committee, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u296	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the course of the work on this change, we asked the Sejm Analysis Office to draw up an opinion on other cases of exclusion from the Sejm meeting. Contrary to what the Member has said... I would nevertheless like to quote some data against this opinion. It is clear that we have not only faced exclusion during this term of office. In 2001 and 2005, i.e. in the fourth term of the Sejm, we were also faced with exclusion. This concerned the exclusion from the session of the Sejm of Mr Andrzej Lepper. [[Mother of God...]] On the other hand, on 16 October 2002, there was an exclusion of Mr Gabriel Janowski. [[Are you going back to prehistory?]] Please? Please don't disturb me. On 17 October, the exclusion concerned Members of the Self-Defense Parliamentary Club. The exclusion of Mr Antoni Macierewicz on 18 February 2004 was perhaps a time better known to you. In the fifth term of office, i.e. in 2005 and 2007, there were no such cases, as in 2007 and 2011. On the other hand, in 2011 and 2015 we had the exclusion of Mr Armand Kamil Ryfiński on 11 September 2015 and on 8 October 2015 - Mr Jarosław Gromadzki. So these are not just cases concerning the current term of office of the Sejm. Mr Głogowski, representing the Civic Platform-Citizen's Coalition Parliamentary Club, rightly pointed out here that in some cases it is better to take a conciliatory position and thus lead to a conclusion and withdraw from the decision what would actually be a breach of the rules of procedure before changing the rules. It is better to make this change, because it gives the person holding the meeting of the Sejm, the marshal, the Vice-Marshal, a chance to take a position that will encourage a good atmosphere in the sitting room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u297	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the concerted method of resolving disputes, if not in the Sejm, will become a universal standard, at least another term, which is expected to justify this submission. I count on the reasonableness of Poles who want a debate in Parliament, not a festival of vanity or a machine for making laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u299	We will join the third reading of the draft resolution in the voting block. Unfortunately, I'm announcing a time-out. 16, because I don't have representatives of the Supreme Chamber of Control. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 41 hours 15 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report on the operation of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018 (Print No 3366) together with the opinion of the Commission for State Control (Print 3515). I ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, This year's report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber is particularly timely. In February this year we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Auditorium. So let me start with a fundamental reflection on NIK. The creators of the Supreme Audit Authority in both II and III of the Republic were convinced that credible budgetary control and control of performance of tasks could only be carried out by a government-independent audit body whose members of the college and controllers would be created with far-reaching guarantees so that they were not afraid to formulate critical assessments, they were not concerned about any repercussions related to it. Therefore, in describing the actions of the Supreme Audit Chamber of both the first, from 1921, prepared under the direction of Józef Higersberger and the latter, from 1994, prepared under the direction of Prof. Lech Kaczyński, the independence of the Supreme Audit Chamber, its collaborators, all controllers, regardless of their positions were guaranteed. This report is also unique from my point of view for one more reason, because it is the last one I present. At the end of August this year, I end my term as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is not only the Supreme Chamber of Control law that regulates the work of this authority. Also the constitution, the most important legal act and the foundation of the legal order of the Republic of Poland, in art. 202 states that the Supreme Audit Chamber is subject only to the Sejm. However, as all commentators have said, this is not the case in any way of making control arrangements or making evaluations. In this area, the Chamber is fully independent and independent, as confirmed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court of December 1998. Without independent state control, it would be difficult to build a democratic rule of law. This is clearly stated by the declaration from Lima adopted by the International Organization of Supreme Audit Authorities Congress, but it is also highlighted in its documents by the United Nations. High Izbo! It is from this independence of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and especially its controllers, regardless of the position taken, from the inspector to the counsellor or the director, that the credibility of our audit reports and their importance to the citizens are in great faith. They see that we act independently of the fact that our reports are reliable and objective. When I came to work at NIK 6 years ago, the work of the Chamber was well assessed by about 1/3 Poles. Today, the latest study shows that nearly 50% of adult Poles - which is important, regardless of political sympathy - thus evaluates the work of NIK as good or very good. I stress this number of people who positively assess the work of the Chamber, as it has increased in recent years from year to year. Today, NIK is rated as one of the best working institutions in our country. This is also appreciated by people from different political backgrounds. Former Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek has repeatedly stressed the extraordinary reliability and professionalism of NIK controllers or involvement in the work of the Board's management. The current President Andrzej Duda, who hosted the presidents of the control bodies of the countries of the European Union a few days ago, i.e. the so-called. The Contact Committee, which I presided over, stressed that I would like to quote that the Supreme Audit Chamber in Poland has an extraordinary appreciation, a great estimate and great respect, and NIK and its controllers comply with the highest standards. NIK reports are also highly appreciated by media representatives, by external and industry experts both in Poland and abroad. They stress the high quality of the findings, evaluations and conclusions presented by the Chamber and their importance for the state recovery process. It is also very important to assess the contemporary condition of the Chamber that the Chamber enjoys in the international arena. NIK is currently on the board of EUROSAI, the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities, where I am Vice-President, and on the board of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities, INTOSAI. It is not only an expression of trust in our organization, but also an expression of appreciation for our activity. Nearly every year, NIK is selected by various international groups to help other countries with European aspirations, or to audit the most prestigious international institutions and organisations such as the European Nuclear Research Organisation, the Council of Europe or the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD. When pointing to the objective and external sources of NIK's assessment in the context of the 2018 report, we cannot overlook yet another very important source: the opinions expressed on NIK by individual Sejm committees, with which controllers from all departments and delegations cooperate on a daily basis. Members of these committees they know best the findings contained in our reports, value the attached system analyses or share the conclusions. All the Sejm committees, presenting their opinions to the Commission for State Control, assessed the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber positive or unnoticed. Thank you very much for this objectivity of the Parliamentary Committees. The good external evaluations of NIK from many sources, including from the audit auditor commissioned by the NIK Sejm, show that the Chamber is functioning properly, that its audit staff and management are well prepared to carry out tasks, and that the methods and standards adopted for carrying out audits are well suited to the challenges facing the Chamber. By building our quality assurance system, we used international standards of state control, in particular INTOSAI quality control standards, an international organisation that brings together all control authorities in the world. High Seym! We have provided you with all the details in a comprehensive document, a report on the House's activities. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, due to the limited time frame for the appearance of the Seym, I will only mention the most important figures depicting the work of the House and mention the absolutely few key problems and some selected audits. You will find the rest in a nearly 500-page report on our activities. This Decision shall enter The House carried out 2325 inspections, i.e. 129 more than in the previous year. We have included these controls - because in some entities we have been many times - over 1800 entities. The areas relevant to citizens and the functioning of the State have been examined in the framework of 111 planned controls. This figure also includes a control of the implementation of the State budget, which is treated as one, but in fact consists of 285 checks carried out in 267 units. By creating a work plan for last year, we also took advantage of the suggestions of the Sejm committees. In total, we have adopted almost 90% - wider or narrower - in this respect. the various applications that have affected you. In addition to scheduled inspections, NIK has also carried out 91 ad hoc checks, most often in response to signals coming to the House about serious irregularities. Complaints addressed to the House were an important source of inspiration for us to undertake ad hoc checks. In 2018, more than 4 000 arrived at the House. complaints and requests, of which almost 2,5% constitute complaints and requests submitted by parliamentarians and by Parliament's bodies. All complaints ordered by thematic groups have initiated many of our controls or have been forwarded to other competent public authorities. At the request of NIK, other state control bodies carried out almost 150 ad hoc inspections and made available to us the results of another 14 inspections. The House also cooperated in seven audits with the highest control authorities from other countries, preparing the so-called. international reports. In 2018, we submitted 191 information to the Sejm on the results of the planned audits, including the implementation of the budget and certain ad hoc controls. The House's representatives attended a total of over 300 meetings of the Sejm committees. Last year, the House also formulated 140 de lege ferenda proposals, including 108, in the context of the need for legislative changes. The level of implementation of these proposals is, of course, around 10% during the first period. , but since the legislative process lasts longer, these results are obviously significantly higher. If we look at the level of implementation of these proposals, I can say that in recent years about 1/3 is already implemented, except for those that are under way. It should also be mentioned that in 2018, in addition to the 140 de lege ferenda proposals contained in the information and statements made in the speeches, we made 4851 follow-up proposals, with more than 300 more applications than in 2017. More than 80% of these proposals have already been implemented or are being implemented. It can therefore be concluded, without exaggeration, that the controlled institutions benefit from most of our proposals. In this way, NIK, among others. it contributes to improving the functioning of the State each year. Ladies and gentlemen! Each year you also ask about the financial benefits obtained by the Treasury as a result of our checks. These amounts amount to nearly PLN 44 million. This is a measurable effect of our controls. However, as with the de lege ferenda proposals, sometimes the process of obtaining benefits for the State Treasury can be time-consuming. In August 2017, the European Commission issued a decision which ordered Poland to recover almost PLN 900 million together with interest from Autostrada Wielkopolska. All this started with our 2010 audit, when we found that the government had paid too much compensation to private operators for releasing trucks from tolls on motorways. In March 2018, the company therefore had to pay over PLN 1300 million for the deposit sums of the Minister of Finance. You see, it often happens that the financial effects of our work are spread over time. The same is true of reports of crimes or offences committed. Last year we put in about 100 and it was 17 more than last year. We have also submitted 58 notifications to the Ombudsman of public finance discipline in which we have disclosed 259 violations of financial discipline. High Izbo! Like I said, I'm not going to tell you about all the checks. I'm just gonna say a few. I think one of the most important controls last year was the audit of air protection measures against pollution. Our report on this topic was presented in September Ub. We found that within the European Union Poland is one of the countries with the worst air quality. We also assessed that the actions of the relevant ministries, but also of voivodship and municipal authorities, except in a few cases, were far from sufficient. Knowledge of the audit methodology for examining air quality improvements has resulted in the highest control authorities from several European countries being entrusted with the duties of an international control coordinator in this area, in which, as I said, several European countries participated. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the impact of environmental protection on the lives and health of citizens, the Supreme Audit Chamber has also carried out an inspection of the maintenance and operation of water supply networks in cities. Another important area affecting citizens' lives is the organisation and functioning of the health system. We devoted a number of checks to this issue last year. We studied, among others. availability and waiting time for health benefits. Unfortunately, in the case of 30% of benefits, the waiting time in the doctor's queue was extended at the end of 2017 compared to 2016. Another audit concluded that the health care system for children and young people of school age, particularly as regards prevention, does not guarantee the full health safety of this age group, as evidenced by the increasing number of children and young people with health problems. The subject of health protection is such an important issue for NIK that we have prepared a comprehensive report, a kind of megainformation, based on the findings of more than 70 inspections of the House, of course including those of recent years, as well as on the opinions of doctors, directors, representatives of hospital founding bodies, health professionals, and [[♪ The bell ♪]] patient associations. Our report met with an excellent reception among external experts. It is also available to all those who want to learn about the most important health problems and recommendations of NIK. Ladies and gentlemen! For many years we have been dealing with problems related to tax collection, including VAT, in NIK. In 2018, we continued our checks in this area, appreciating the greater effectiveness of the tax system in preventing VAT fraud. While seeking proper public spending, we have also been interested in the issue of the management of State Treasury companies and the exercise of ownership supervision. Signals about irregularities were coming to us, among others. from the Parliamentary Committee. We audited the expenditure of the Treasury companies for sponsorship, media and advisory services. 20 companies examined by us spent more than PLN 1.5 billion on sponsorship activities and the purchase of advisory and media services. Among the most important irregularities we included spending money on sponsorship despite the negative financial result of the company or sponsoring projects that were not included in the spending plans. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2018 we also examined the functioning of the Polish Armed Group and the payment of checks in selected companies of the State Treasury. The reports are ready and will soon be in the Sejm. Some of our information about the results of the checks we send to the Sejm in the manner appropriate for classified information. That was the case, for example. when we were checking how Poland is prepared for terrorist threats. An important and interesting report on this matter was recently sent to the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I can say that the main role of the NIK is to provide parliamentarians, representatives of the executive authority and, most importantly, to all citizens with reliable, in-depth and objective information on various important areas. Free citizens need to know how government and local government agendas perform their statutory tasks and how they spend public money. Today, 100 years after the establishment of the Supreme National Chamber, it seems that its importance is even greater. In an age of information noise and threats of deliberate manipulation and disinformation, it is difficult to imagine the existence of a democratic country without reliable, in-depth and objective information provided by an independent body responsible for State control. High Seym! I'm finishing my six-year term as CEO of NIK. I leave the House in very good condition, highly appreciated by public opinion, external experts, international institutions, journalists and parliamentarians, but above all I leave the House, where 1600 professionals, the best specialists in state control in Poland, are well-educated, well-prepared. I can say that regardless of the position you are taking, whether it is an inspector, a specialist, a counselor, or a director, you perform your duties with dedication, commitment and professionalism. Thank you for your service together. I can end with wishes directed to my successor, so that so far the Supreme Chamber of Control is synonymous with reliable, reliable, objective information that will serve all citizens and parliamentarians in the Polish Seym and the Polish Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u301	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba will present the opinion of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, it should be recalled that the only institution supervising the Supreme Audit Chamber is the Sejm acting in gromio and by its organs, in particular by the Marshal of the Sejm. For this reason, the Sejm must not neglect to perform this function. This, of course, also applies to a specialised committee, the Committee on State Control. I would like to remind you that over the past three years this committee has recommended, and the Sejm has adopted this by a majority of votes, not taking a report on the activities of the Supreme Chamber, i.e. the Sejm, has benefited from the only disciplinary measure it has at its disposal. The reason for this was errors or negligence in the internal organization of NIK, such as the absurd bureaucracy of this institution or the koteritic policy of rewarding employees. To date, in order to protect the reputation of the Supreme Chamber, the committee has avoided moving issues concerning the extent to which internal disorder in NIK affects the standard of its work. In the last year of our term of office and at the same time in the last year of NIK's leadership, the current leadership needs to address the impact of the voluntaryism of NIK management on the quality of the work of this institution. This identification is necessary immediately at the outset. The source of the disorder is the activities of the senior management, which, in addition to the presidents, are advisors to the President - now known as pathetic advisors - as well as directors of organisational units. Below I will refer to the problems raised in the broad public circulation, so that the shortcomings of the work of the Supreme Chamber are visible to the public and are commented on by it. That's why it's not right for the Sejm to remain silent. The leading press release on control: Supervision of the use of food additives, given by the highest chamber, was the statement that the average consumer consumes 2 kg of preservatives per year, i.e. so-called. Appendices E. In the report there is only one sentence bearing a footnote indicating that such a statement was made during the so-called. an expert panel on the use of food additives and that this is confirmed on one of the portals, where there is also only one sentence on this issue. The address of this commercial portal is in the Philippines, the contact phone is also Filipino. Thus, the leading - according to the NIK itself - determination of the Polish state control is unverified and maybe sucked out of the finger. How many such unverified or undocumented information are contained in nearly 200 reports appearing each year? Why does NIK make its own audit findings, what costs it if its front statements are based on online information, including from an uncertain source? The costs associated only with the time of the controllers' work on this subject of control can be estimated at an amount exceeding 300 000. zł. This is the approximate price of obtaining unverified information from the Filipino portal. If it were a joke, you could say that Filipino disease is developing. The same is true of another loud report called: Teaching math in schools. The NIK auditors carried out a check in this respect in 2017, but the report bears the date - note - 15 February 2019. The only general conclusion of the NIK is that, in short, I quote, the possibility of suspending the math exam as mandatory for all pupils should be considered until the effectiveness of teaching this subject in schools is improved. There is no real basis for this conclusion. In Chapter: Important results of the audit, i.e. in the source part of the report, in subsection: Results of external exams on the status of math exams have no word. In the chapter under the name: The synthesis is a brief statement that the current status of the math exam at the basic level should be considered. It cannot be pointed out that a compulsory math exam for all pupils has a direct impact on the place of a given country in the economic innovation ranking. In turn, in the chapter: The conclusions, quoting the recommendation of experts, clearly indicate, for the non-nominant in the footnote, that one of the experts recommended leaving the math exam as mandatory. We are therefore dealing with a situation where the top proposal of the Supreme Chamber is an artistic concept of the management of the education department and the management of the NIK, which has nothing to do with the specific findings made within the scope of the audit. By the way, arrangements are quite interesting - the others. It should also be added that this proposal, the leading one, is contrary to the many thesis contained in the report itself. Again, the question needs to be asked: How many such unfounded proposals or conclusions with a questionable documentary basis are in the NIK reports? They are created every year less than 200. What is the reliability of the review of NIK's draft documents - in particular the draft programmes and draft reports - by the advisors of the President of NIK, who mainly deal with this? In the context of this case and previous cases, it is difficult not to notice that the pursuit of sensationalism is more important to the current management of NIK than a reliable attitude towards reality. There's a delay in publishing the report. The audit activities were completed at the end of 2017 and the report was signed in mid-February 2019, i.e. more than a year later. Expert opinions, which, according to the report's content, have indeed affected this report, are dated October 2018. What kind of working method is this? Why bother the controllers if the results of their work do not shape the opinions and assessments of the NIK? Twenty-one units were checked on this subject. On this basis, it can be estimated, taking into account, of course, other data contained in the report, that the cost of this audit was over 200,000. zł. Similarly, an incomprehensible delay occurred due to control: The implementation by local authorities of tasks related to the organisation of mass events - the title is longer. The control activities ended in mid-April 2018. The report was approved in October 2018 but was published in the first decade of 2019, i.e. 5.5 months after its approval and almost one year after the completion of the inspection activities. The findings of the NIK were alarming and, however, delayed its publication, and thus the rapid preventive impact of the report was abandoned. This is an example of incomprehensible maneuvering the effects of the work of the NIK, certainly not serving public benefit. An example of no longer maneuvering, but manipulating the results of the audit is the report of the change in the education system. It was published at the beginning of the first decade of May 2019 but the essential part of the control activities was carried out between October and December 2018. Formally, the operations ended in January 2019. By the way, this time, from the completion of the inspection activities to the publication of the report, it has been less than 4 months, which should be the norm. The main objective of this report was to determine whether the education system was changed correctly and effectively. However, the report is not the answer to this question and it is not accidental. This procedure allowed to minimize the positive assessments of the Ministry of National Education. It must be acknowledged that the NIK has consistently applied its minimalisation strategies here, and has minimized the critical assessments of local authorities, which were direct contributors to changes in education. The assessments of the Ministry of National Education carried out by NIK were either unauthorised or questionable. MEN has been given responsibility for the malfunctions or omissions of other entities involved in the education reform process. In one case, the inclusion of the problem and the formulated quasi-assessment testify directly to the ignorance of educational issues by the editors of the report, which in practice means the ignorance of the higher level of supervision in NIK. As I said, the Supreme Audit Chamber, on the one hand, has deviated from potentially positive assessments and, on the other hand, has deviated from critical assessments of other actors. Thus, it is impossible not to notice the intention of the report, which is further justified in the failure to publish the position of the Ministry of National Education, contrary to the express obligation arising from the disposal of the Act on NIK. Analysis of the content of the reports indicates the poor quality of the higher level of supervision workshop in NIK, which appears, among others. in the non-verification of the hypotheses, as well as the abandonment of the determination of cause-effect compounds. Incidentally, the issue of the failure of NIK to identify the causes of negative phenomena on several occasions occurred at subsequent meetings of the Commission for State Control dealing with other audits. In conclusion, the editorial work of this report was carried out intentionally, and it is worth adding that the costs associated with paying controllers can be estimated at about PLN 1 million. In the framework of the 2018 review of the implementation of the state budget in 2017 in part 29, i.e. concerning national defence, NIK pointed out eight irregularities, of which three concerned one case, namely the purchase of air transport units for the most important persons in the country. We remember that this issue has not been resolved for several years. In 2017, over PLN 727 million was spent for this purpose, of which PLN 527 million was derived from funds dedicated to reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic. The NIK concluded that the pool of dedicated funds was thus reduced by this amount, i.e. by PLN 527 million, because the expenditure in question was treated as unrelated to the defence of the Republic of Poland. Meanwhile, purchased aircraft are not only operated by military pilots, and their flights are monitored by the competent services of the Polish Air Force, but some of them have modern technical means, among others. allowing landing at military airports, including in threatened territories such as Afghanistan, and even having adequate defence measures, and allowing large military formations to be commanded from the air. Thus, the classification of the act by NIK is grossly wrong. Besides, colloquially speaking, it's idiotic. By nature, people such as the president, prime ministers, ministers and top military commanders must have special military protection. More importantly, it is our public interest to rebuild special purpose transport aviation, because we live in such, and not in other external environments. There's still an important context. The partial financing of this purchase from funds for the reconstruction, modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces was not an innovative idea of the current government. The previous government also planned to partially finance the purchase of air transport units for VIPs from the means dedicated to reconstruction and modernisation, and somehow this did not arouse the interest of the Supreme Auditorium. This plan did not remain realized, but this is due to the well-known efficiency, i.e. the failure of the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Of course, there is a question about the intentions of the organisers of this inspection. The fact that the issue had been resolved over the years was not surprisingly impressed by the fact that the issue had been resolved over the years, but it was obvious that the expenditure on defensive aircraft could not be borne by State defence measures. To sum up my entire speech so far, only on these few examples can you see how unsatisfied the standard of work of the NIK management is. At the same time, it can be seen how dangerous the voluntaryism of this management is. I will repeat that there is no doubt, I mean not only the presidents, but also the so-called. Councillors of the President and the Board of Directors. For the management of NIK is not the problem of reporting untested data and questionable hypotheses and also, the problem is not more or less subtle manipulation of control results with considerable difficulty achieved by controllers carrying out field research. This is primarily the result of the internal destruction of the Supreme Audit Chamber. This destruction has been the main reason for the NIK's failure to accept further reports by the Commission for State Control and consequently by the Sejm for the past three years. It is regrettable to say that the NIK presidents, with one exception, maybe, at least in my opinion, did not even intend to make a noticeable correction in this regard. Over the years, we have been paying attention to the absurd formalism of the audit work, which is conducive to lowering the labour standards of the Supreme Audit Chamber. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The 2018 report briefly identifies management achievements such as the introduction of principles for the development of key work documents of NIK, the modification of models of control programmes and NIK reports and the harmonisation of ways of presenting the results of controls. As you can see, this did not in any way prevent anybody from providing unverified data or questionable data. The same effect, i.e. zero, brought a quality assurance system. A bureaucratic review of the quality of the audit task did not prevent the negative phenomena described above, but dozens of people participate in this verification process. It's a negative effect on unpragmatic procedures, not on human responsibility and honesty. The report states that work on creating a professional controller's competence model has been completed. As you can see, this paper model of competence did not prevent the phenomena described above. Let me repeat: pathetic, paper arrangements will not replace personal responsibility and honesty, not least courage. As you know, the Katowice Public Prosecutor's Office has filed an indictment and a request for criminal liability of the President of NIK. In this sense, it is important that it confirms the failure to manage the Supreme Audit Chamber, the management of the careless for a high level of professionalism. Let me remind you that in the previous three years we have shown a mindless style of management of the Supreme Audit Chamber. There is no change and the effects of reduced labour standards are becoming increasingly apparent. On behalf of the Commission for State Control, I make a request, as in recent years, for the failure to adopt the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2018. Your marshal, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u303	The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Szarama will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Issues related to the substantive assessment of some of the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber have been discussed in a very broad way by the representative of the committee, Mr Dziuba, so I will not go back to these threads. I would like to stress the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and it is not presented for the first time: for us, the very important thing is that an indictment has been sent against the President concerning the commission of offences relating to the operation of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The Sejm, the High Chamber is not able to make any individual assessment, individual attention to the President. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber shall be examined once a year. I would like to stress with all my power that this report submitted to the Sejm by the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Parliamentary Club Law and Justice cannot accept for all the reasons that have been mentioned previously. This is, of course, a very difficult situation, not only for the High House, for individual parliamentary clubs or political groups, it is a difficult situation for the whole of Poland, because there is a shadow on the operation of this highest control authority in the Polish country, which cannot be overlooked. Of course, in addition to these shortcomings, the errors mentioned by the rapporteur, on a daily basis, we met with work, with individual checks, with specific information from the checks carried out, which we assess well and which are really needed and helpful in the functioning of the State, in the functioning of the government. They allow to correct work in different ministries, in local governments, in many important areas of our life: economic and social. It is simply necessary to thank the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber for all that has been done well, who, as has been said today, will function and work further for the good of the Polish state after this term of office. Of course, changes, a new style of action they are also essential. But this base, which is based on the traditions and skills of the employees of the Supreme Auditorium, will certainly continue to be used and I hope it will serve the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u305	Mr Artur Gierada on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have the honour of presenting an opinion on the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber on behalf of my club, but I think that before I do, I must remind you of the NIK mission, which is the Supreme Audit Chamber at all, because I have the impression that for a few years now Law and Justice has forgotten about it, exactly since it rules. NIK is the chief and independent state control body with the mission of a public penny guard. For 100 years, NIK has assessed the functioning of the State, the management of public funds, shows the mistakes of the State apparatus, but also shows how to fix them. Once again, it is apolitical, objective, independent and reliable. In short, the Supreme Audit Chamber This is not public television, and President Kwiatkowski is not President Kurski. [[Applause]] I will now present some examples of controls that will actually show why PiS does not like the Supreme Audit Chamber so much. Let's start with a review of the Justice Fund working to help victims of crime. The auditors criticise the appropriateness of granting millions of zlotys for projects which have no connection with the objectives of the fund. NIK also found that many organizations received millions of grants despite lack of appropriate experience. We all remember yesterday by the media showing PLN 24 million for retro-reflective vests. The goal may be right, but why at the expense of the victims? Why the money that's supposed to help people who are hurt? And this is not the end of Minister Ziobra's generosity. NIK audited 14 competitions and recruitments for the total value of nearly PLN 40 million. The spending of 33 million, as many as 86% of them, assessed as pointless and non-economic measures. Who got the money? Who was the beneficiary? Father Tadeusz Rydzyk, quickly founded foundations and associations associated with the people of Minister Ziobra, Solidarna Polski, Law and Justice. In addition, NIK concluded that later spending this money had not been audited. Although appropriate statements have been made, they have not been subsequently approved and no decision has been made to refund this money. This is an absolute omission that violates the discipline of public finances. In the NIK's view, a small proportion of victims of crime in relation to the scale of the crime receive alternative and effective assistance from the fund. An example? The Crime Compensation Act, which was supposed to support 12,000. victims of the most serious crimes, life and health-related crimes. You know how many people in a year from this fund of 12,000. They got backup. 30 people. 30 people for a total of 200 000. zł. And you guys spend $24 million on reflective vests with a light hand. Among other things, legal, psychological assistance provided via the Internet or the helpline has also been removed. That's how you help victims of crime. First, the PiS couldn't protect these people, now they can't help them. Another question, free legal aid. A flagship helper, by the way. We all remember Duda's help. What came out of the bill? In 2017, 2% of the aid was available. - Okay, eligible. Consequently, 3/4 of the system's potential was not used as intended. According to data from the Ministry of Justice, which I don't think anybody will question, on average, there is one advice per point per day. Only in 2016 and 2017, 190 million PLN was inefficiently spent for this purpose. I don't think you need a comment. Very interesting conclusions NIK also draws from the control of companies of the State Treasury. I am already skipping the Polish National Foundation, 633 million PLN, which is to be passed within 10 years by this Foundation, and it clearly does not fulfil the tasks which have been legally assigned to it. But even more interesting is the control, which covered only 20 companies of the Treasury. In these 20 companies of the State Treasury, according to it, more than PLN 1.5 billion was spent on sponsorship activities and the purchase of advisory and media services. Most of them, despite spending huge sums, did not comply with the rules and procedures they set out in this regard. And a small quote: In the media there are cyclical allegations that sponsorship is used as a screen for financial compensation granted to specific entities, e.g. for their involvement in the election campaign of a specific candidate or party. What did the check show? The actions or omissions of the authorities in 13 audited companies created a risk of mismanagement, and in three companies resulted in mismanagement of almost 660 thousand. I would add that some of those companies that were sponsors have a negative financial result. Moreover, this audit shows that 20% of the companies of the Treasury, 100 of them, are in a very poor financial situation today, are in liquidation or bankruptcy. It is a carousel of positions, million check-in and management managers of the State of Law and Justice. NIK shows the real state of the state, its schedule today. It's not the propaganda speech you serve every day through public television to the nation. I could talk a lot about 42 million of CEPiK, even if we lose 8 billion PLN, lose Polish citizens, because of the devastation of RES in our country, or the fact that after your health care reform, up to 30% of specialists have extended their queues. The list of charges only from this one annual check is very long, but you don't get these arguments. You are not accepting this report again, and you are personally attacking the President without referring to his work. Mr. President! The rest of the time, I'm gonna give it to my club friend, who's gonna change some things, too. I would like to end by saying that if the Law and Justice reject this report once again, please pass it on to your employees, I give it to you, please consider it as a well done job, really as something you should treat as a distinction and honor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u307	Thank you. The remaining part of the time will be used by Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Seym! Invited guests! The Supreme Audit Chamber is the only control body in the country that everyone in the public administration fears - the words of President Andrzej Duda at the meeting at the Presidential Palace with the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and the heads of the European Supreme Audit Authorities in June this year. When the Supreme Audit Chamber comes in for control, everyone gets stiff because it's such an important control, reliable, to which you have to apply in a very professional way, the highest standards are required. And indeed, the Supreme Audit Chamber and its controllers respect the highest standards," said the president. And I share that opinion. I believe that the Supreme Audit Chamber plays a huge role not only as a control body in Poland, but also in Europe and the world. This year's report of the Supreme Audit Chamber falls within a particular period, namely when we celebrate the century of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The creators of the Supreme Audit Authority, in order to gain reliable control, legally guaranteed the independence of the Supreme Audit Chamber, its collaborators and all controllers. I would like to say that several hundred inspections have been carried out each year by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Only in 2018, reports were published on smog in Poland, the activities of the Commission for the Development of Smog. medical errors or bathing conditions. Food controls, the risk of infection in hospitals and the supervision in state companies, which Mr Gierada spoke more about, have also been analysed. I would like to say that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition does not agree with the rejection of the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018 by the Parliamentary Commission for State Control. It is simply a simple criticism for criticism without hard, strong arguments, without a substantive justification. Let me remind you that the Sejm committees have accepted this document unreservedly. On the contrary, many of these committees gave him a positive opinion and considered the information useful. That is why I think it is unfair, unfair, that the accusations concerning the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control are against the House as a whole. I will not refer to the words of the Coreferent of the Commission for State Control. I would also like to stress and point out that it would be good if the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm ordered more involvement of the Sejm committees, so that the conclusions of de lege ferenda are reflected in the amendments to the laws. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition is in favour of the report. From this point on, I would very much like to thank the entire staff of the Supreme Audit Chamber for their thorough work in behalf of our country, also outside our borders, and thank you, Mr President, that he has elevated the Supreme Audit Chamber to the heights, because the Supreme Audit Chamber has not only obtained a very high opinion among the respondents, but also in the international arena. Thank you very much, and I wish you all the best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15. There isn't. In that case, Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u310	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, At the beginning of this year, at the beginning of 2019 and precisely in February, the Supreme Chamber of Control celebrated the century of uprisings. The Decree establishing the House contains principles and presents values: honesty, integrity, conscientiousness, inquisitiveness, objectivity, which I am deeply convinced of, and also carried out in the work of the inspectors and the staff of the Chamber also in 2018, in which they implemented the work plan of the Supreme Audit Chamber for this very year 2018. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber in the introduction to this report, which we are discussing today, makes it clear that these values, these principles have proved timeless and still apply in the Supreme Audit Chamber. It is also crucial, in my opinion, to say, and here I am literally quoting the sentence from the introduction, that for the smooth functioning of the state it is necessary to have a competent and independent, I stress: independent, from the executive authority of the control body guarding public money. I stress this principle of independence because I have an irrefutable impression, supported by an analysis of the so-called. The Coreferate delivered just now at the meeting of the Committee on State Control and the opinions delivered by the representatives of the ruling party today and for all the years of its ruling that this independence and objectivity are unsatisfied by the ruling party that it is painfully upset. And the example? Evaluation, of course, is very negative, as we have heard, controls on education reform, controls on math teaching. And the fact that these checks, these reports, were not included in the report, which we are now assessing, which is the subject of evaluation, to be honest, the worse it is for this report. Did you need a justification for the thesis? Please, we will quote a document that is not included in the report, but that is not the case. It is surprising, and here I am really surprised that Mr kodeferent has not analysed and has not critically assessed the report of the NIK on the control of the Justice Fund, [[Applause]] where the House assessed as a non-targeted and non-economic grant for grants, up to 86% the amounts of expenditure audited. Once again, I would like to quote a key sentence: for the smooth functioning of the state, it is necessary to have a competent and independent control authority, which protects public money. As a citizen, I would like to see this happen in the years to come. For the durability and strength of the Polish state. High Seym! The mission to serve the State and its citizens is expressed, inter alia, through control information containing not only factual findings but also conclusions relevant to improving the functioning of the controlled areas. The Supreme Audit Chamber focuses primarily on systemic irregularities, public administration activities and factors that threaten the proper achievement of the State's objectives and problems which are particularly serious for citizens. The auditors of the Supreme Audit Chamber carried out 111 planned audits in 2018, 91 ad hoc checks, including, of course, checks on the implementation of the state budget for 2017, which included all the directors in the budgetary section of the State: self-government colleges, appeals courts, state special purpose funds, selected executive agencies and public legal entities, as well as local self-government units and other public expenditure entities, including entities outside the public finance sector. As part of the control activity in 2018, 2325 unit controls were carried out in 1633 entities. This is what illustrates the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber controllers in 2018. The Supreme Audit Chamber submitted 190 information to the Sejm on the results of planned and ad hoc inspections and its representatives attended 316 meetings of the committee, including 20 meetings of the industry committee, the State Audit Committee. The Supreme Audit Chamber, on the basis of the results of the audit, makes audit proposals that may suggest concrete changes in the audited entities, and this is usually the case as well as the whole of the issues examined and are of a systemic nature. It is worth noting that the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber are an inspiration for changes in almost often already during the audit. High Seym! On this subject, on the proposal for legislative changes, a few sentences of the evaluation. Well, in 2018. As many as 140 requests for de lege ferenda, including 108 proposals for amending statutory regulations, were made by the NIK in 53 submitted information on the results of the audit, 31 proposals for amending the implementing rules, i.e. regulations. In general, in 2014 and 2018, it is also worth mentioning that the Supreme Audit Chamber has formulated a total of 535 de lege ferenda proposals, of which 149 have been implemented and a further 27 proposals from this period are currently in the legislative process. I quote these figures, this statistics, because I believe that this is the heart of the work of such an institution as is the Supreme Audit Chamber, but also because I would once again lie to the opinions given here in previous years, in previous years, to false and unfair opinions about the fact that NIK was an institution, and here I quote: with the head turned backwards. So how do we evaluate these conclusions? High Seym! In presenting these few evaluations, I would like to emphasise once again that we fundamentally disagree with the opinion proposed by the Commission for State Control. On the basis of a fair assessment of the work of NIK in 2018 and the evaluation of the activity report of NIK, which we are dealing with today, we will be in favour of this report, just as I have pointed out, on the basis of a sound, objective assessment, and not at a political level. I encourage those who wish to explore this political sphere to read the minutes of the committee's meeting to see the committee's meeting on 12 June when these thesis were formulated. In my opinion, it is worth reading, listening, listening to discussions, having conversations, making an opinion. Finally, I would like to thank the President, the Head of the Supreme Audit Chamber and all the employees for their enormous, reliable work, for their reliable approach to important social and economic developments. Thank you so much for your attention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u311	Thank you very much. We proceed to ask questions at this point. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I close the list. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, begins. Time - one and a half minutes. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're written down, sir. Check it out, not... [[You're not here.]] Then sign up. Mr President, it is your duty to check whether you are on the list or not and not on my list. Time - one and a half minutes. Here we go. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u312	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! State control is based on clear principles: transparency of intent, accuracy of information, apoliticality of controllers and collegicy in making key decisions. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Mr PiS, in your report on the opinion of the Commission for State Control, there was full transparency of intentions. It was a political statement to order. There was no integrity, and this is the way to assess the committee's proposal, which has been formulated. As Vice-President of the Committee on Senior Policy, I would like to say very clearly that all the audit results, all the reports presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber were assessed absolutely positively and at each meeting of the Committee we thanked the House for treating senior policy, demographic forecasts in its audits as a priority. I understand that it is a problem for the PiS government, if the Supreme Audit Chamber makes such a conclusion that, within the framework of the universal healthcare system, no tools have been created to effectively and effectively solve the problems of people with Alzheimer's disease and their families. Yeah, it hurts because you spend 400 million on IPN, and you don't want to give $10 million on Alzheimer's. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. President! This is the moment when I would like to thank you very much for the work you and your team have done, along with your deputies and the House as a whole, for their senior policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u313	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u314	This issue has been seen in the House's activities, is noticed by seniors and builds your respect, which will be remembered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u315	Thank you very much. I have set a long time, which is 1.5 minutes, and I ask each of the next Members to observe this time. Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Well, I would like to draw attention to something. Namely, the Code of Ethics of the Supreme Audit Chamber defines five principles: honesty, independence and objectivity, competence, professional behaviour, confidentiality and transparency. I believe that as part of your last inspection at the Ministry of the Environment, as many as four of these principles have been broken, and please correct if I'm not telling you the truth. The previous checks on similar issues in the field of geology and raw materials policy took account of the country's main geologist's response to the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit. The main geologist of the country participated in meetings in the Supreme Audit Chamber and in colleges. And everything was fine with exactly the same authority. This time, the Supreme Audit Chamber has shown its tendency and enormous non-objectism very strongly, breaking the above-mentioned principles. No references have been taken into account when considering that there are no authorisations. Such authorizations are. The law hasn't changed, people haven't changed, arguments haven't changed, only the option you presented has changed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Explain that, Mr. President. He knows this case very well. At the same time, I provide a fuller written justification.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! The subject matter of the Supreme Audit Chamber is control. After certain facts have occurred. I would like to ask about the process that accompanies these phenomena, i.e. the decision-making process. I would like to ask whether and in what space you control the decision-making process with regard to the effects of these decisions, i.e. those issues which are then subject to your control or other institutions to this appointed by the Polish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u319	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! I have a question about the Supreme Auditorium report on electromagnetic radiation. I would like to ask if there is a health monitoring system in Poland and how does it work near electromagnetic radiation sources and is it ensured that people's health is protected from this radiation? According to the results of the control, is the location of the stations in Poland optimal, or is the level of electromagnetic radiation already in existence taken into account? Are public administration units prepared for reliable control of electromagnetic radiation? I am also interested in whether there are mobile base stations in Poland that operate without the required permissions and whether national authorities are making every effort to make such mobile base stations [[♪ The bell ♪]] have not been created without the required permissions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u321	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u322	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Well, the heart squeezes when you hear about NIK's data manipulation. Mr President, I would therefore like to ask whether it is true that Poland's target of 15% energy from RES in total gross energy consumption in 2020 is at risk. Is it true that in 2016 this indicator was the lowest and was 11% , and was the lowest since 2013? What threatens Poland if it fails to achieve this indicator and does not reach 15% ? What is the main cause of this state of affairs? What didn't the government do? Here's another thing. Since the beginning of the term of office, the PiS government has started the liquidation of mines, the liquidation of jobs in Silesia. He bet on record imports of coal, especially from Russia. He bet on maintaining the jobs of Russian miners. He put Russian coal on Poles' poison. Most of the funds earmarked for this purpose, i.e. almost PLN 7 billion, went to and will be sent to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. I'd like to ask you when the NIK will proceed with this company's control. In recent years, in the course of a year, this company changed its CEOs, there were already several of them. Several members of the board have been charged, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can say for corruption. When will the NIK check this company, which spends most of the money from the state budget, from the taxpayer's pocket? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Supreme Control Izbo! Let this phrase, although it contains tautology, be a thank you to the President, his closest colleagues and over 1,500 employees of NIK for the past years, for the 6 years of their term of office. For remaining independent that you remained faithful to the assumptions and heritage of NIK. I would also like to thank you for 4 years of cooperation within the Committee on State Control, although in this committee you have often met with a lack of reliable assessment, and often with smallness. I think it was the time used to improve NIK's performance, because in every case, also in this case, there are areas to improve, even if the question of assessing the efficiency of the whole public sector. Mr. Artur Gierada, my clubmate, clearly showed that the phrase: to see a blade in someone's eye, and not to see a beam in their own, unfortunately applies here. You've shown a lot of irregularities. I think the question of the Justice Fund, the question of remuneration in the Treasury companies or the use of Bajonnish sums [[♪ The bell ♪]] by these companies for weird sponsorship, these are the issues. Unfortunately, that's the beam to the blade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u326	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask, in fact, I would like to ask the President a question, because I am not sure about the objectivity of the rapporteur's conclusions. That is why I wanted to ask you about the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2018, about the control of science, the teaching of mathematics in schools, the supervision of the use of food additives, the implementation by local authorities of tasks related to the organisation of mass events and street gears, changes in the education system. Are these real allegations or is there any other opinion? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u327	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to thank you first. At the hands of the President, I would like to thank you very much for the best Supreme Chamber of Control. For truly excellent and reliable checks. I thank the whole team, and I am glad that for the century this very good ability to guard the public pennies has been noticed. I would also like to say, Mr President, that among the hundreds of checks, I thank you very much for the checks close to my heart, including. testing the homelessness of animals, taking care of animals. These are checks that significantly improve the ability to take action. Today, Mr President, I would like to ask you a question about one of the last checks, about, I would say, par excellence very hot control, about Eko-Boruta in Zgierz. The people of Zgierza ask me, they e-mail me, if they can be calm, if they can be sure that this case will not escape in any way, will not be buried, swept under the rug. Of course, I am convinced that this is a very important, important control. Let me ask you, Mr President, that these words be said today, that we can be sure that this check, like every one of you, will also be carried out reliably. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u329	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Szarama, Law and Justice, will ask a final question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, like the entire Sejm, is convinced that the Supreme Chamber of Control must function in a completely independent manner and that the controllers must rely on their knowledge, their beliefs and the information they acquire during the audit. So these words that have been said here, that there are some controls that are inconvenient to our parliamentary club, are completely wrong. No one is more interested than the Law and Justice in ensuring that the Supreme Chamber of Control controls are full, objective and if they are sometimes inconvenient to one of the rulers, it does not change the form of things. Any control that will contribute to the better functioning of a particular segment of the Polish state will be welcome by us. Yesterday, at the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber, I thanked the President for the control he had undertaken on an ad hoc basis, which Mrs Hanajczyk was just talking about. So we're converging moments. It's a total coincidence. But such actions, in such aspects, in relation to this problem, which at the moment is particularly painful for the Polish state, because as a result of huge events [[♪ The bell ♪]] We cannot fully deal with this yet, such checks as will indicate possible solutions, and at the same time they can point out the guilty of the mistakes made, are expected by us as much as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u331	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will be the first to answer the questions asked in this item by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, I must say that this year's speech by Mr Dziuby unfortunately presents a new element. This new element is no longer just a negative assessment of management. This new element is also a negative assessment of controllers. I am used to my negative assessment, but there is an attempt at a negative assessment of the staff of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and I will quote, as Mr NIK has said, the maneuvering of the work of the NIK in the context of the various publication of the results of the audit. Mr President, I must say that you, as Vice-President of the Commission for State Control, should probably be the last to make such an accusation. You should be the last to make such an accusation for a very simple reason - the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in Article. 126 says that the report of the Sejm submitted to the Sejm by the Supreme Audit Chamber shall be examined no later than 3 months after its delivery to the Members. The report on NIK's activities was received by the Sejm in March this year. You violated the rules of the Sejm. If someone is manoeuvring some effects, the results of the work, breaking the regulations that are in force in this area, then you, as Vice-President of the Commission for State Control, and the one who gives an opinion every year on our report, should be the first to say: I apologize for breaking the rules of law. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, in this criticism, the Member has gone further. I would like to quote the statement from the Parliamentary Committee on State Control: The unsatisfactory standard of today's work by NIK refers, as I clearly stress, to the level of management, but I am referring not only to the presidents of NIK, but also to the so-called. Councillors of the President. You're insulting them. They're not so-called. Counsellor of the President. These are the counsels of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. And each of the NIK controllers, regardless of whether he is an inspector, a specialist, an advisor, a counsellor or a director, deserves the highest respect and recognition. I am worried about these statements, because I do not hide that I presume that in a moment's time it will turn out that in order to improve the situation it is best to call off the directors, counsellors, or perhaps the entire audit corps, and in a year's time it will turn out that the Supreme Auditorium will already function splendidly, and that you will be the one who will present an opinion on the adoption of its report. I am talking about this because the honourable Member spoke today, and at the committee meeting: the Supreme Chamber of Control was ripped out about 18 years ago, teeth and claws. This process of destruction in NIK takes place during this period. I will defend the achievements of all the presidents of the Supreme Chamber of Control. I will defend Janusz Wojciechowski, who was still President of NIK in 2001, and today he is a Polish representative at the ECO, Mirosław Sekula, former President and former Deputy Minister of Finance, and Jacek Jezierski, who was elected to this position by the votes of PiS Members. Don't dissuade the achievements of the Supreme Board of Control, all its controllers and all the presidents who were before me. I've never looked at a party card. I respected each of my predecessors, regardless of what votes and majority he was elected in the Sejm, because such an institution as an independent control body primarily requires stability, respect and the sense that the controller has the right to formulate even negative opinions, if justified by the facts. Today you say that, in the context of education reform, I will quote - of course I ignore the matter of urgency, because on this subject we have already discussed - the control plan, in the context of this reform, the information from this audit, was carried out in such a way as to assess the least positive role of the Ministry of National Education and the least negative role of local government. This is the worst-case scenario if you want to determine how the controllers are supposed to formulate an assessment of the different actors we control. If this is behind the intentions of your words, this is the darkest possible scenario for an independent control body. [[Applause]] I ask you: Do not diminish, do not beautify, but leave the controllers free to assess the facts which they determine in the framework of their checks. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, the argument given in the context of the assessment of the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber is the assessment of my person. I remind you that there is such a thing as a presumption of innocence. Let me remind you that in 2015, immediately after the prosecution's doubts, I applied to the Sejm for the waiver of immunity with a request to refer the case to the court. Ask yourself, " Why is this case taking so many years, and the D.A.'s witnessing people who have read on the Internet about irregularities in NIK? Who cares about stalling this case? Because I'm not. [[Applause]] There's one more thing I wanted to tell you. The trial goes on for over a year. At the first hearing of the court, the court issued a decision to hand over all the evidence in this case by the prosecutor's office. Uncut conversations - all conversations and all. So far, this proposal has not been implemented by the prosecution, and this is the best answer to the question of what is hidden there. I'm just embarrassed that once again you're bringing up this argument. [[Shame.]] I'm not gonna say, by politeness - because I've already told you about the presumption of innocence - that you know best that also the conviction, although the court of first instance, was not an obstacle to public office. Another case you've been asking about. Mr Jarosław Sachajko asked about the issue of mobile telephony. Yes, we have found, as a result of our audit, that indeed public institutions do not exercise sound supervision regarding the possibility of a threat or the absence of such a threat in the context of the functioning of e.g. Cell phone masts. The next question concerned RES, namely renewable energy. Here, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we have found that the share of renewable energy has decreased in the last year and has not increased, second, that there is no chance of reaching 15%. renewable energy, thirdly, that if we do not do so, we are facing financial penalties, and fourthly that the amendments adopted during this term have contributed to this, which hinder the development of renewable energy. In the context of the questions you have asked... You said, for example. on the position related to two controls in the areas of teaching mathematics and education reform. I've already talked about education reform. In the context of the reform related to the math exam: the basis of this proposal... I ignore the fact that in educational systems, which today are rated as one of the best in the world - in Europe this is a system in Finland, in the world - in Singapore - compulsory math exam for all, limiting this exam as mandatory only for those who want to study in science in the future. This is for discussion, of course each country decides about its education system. But the most important conclusion that was included in the results of this check... Unfortunately, you are simply missing the truth, saying that this is the only conclusion. I am showing you the summary of this report and I am also serving as a whole information. Here are five applications addressed to the Ministry of National Education. The conclusion that he was talking about considering the suspension of the math exam as mandatory for everyone, I stress, was all about it, and it resulted from the fact that the scope of teaching, the way of teaching math in schools today, unfortunately, is that the math skills of students are getting worse instead of improving. I am happy to serve with various statistics in this area if you are interested. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the other checks you asked about, e.g. those concerning food additives... I ignore the fact that, if anyone is interested, it can meet with dozens of studies already carried out in different countries, which say how many of these food additives a particular consumer consumes in different countries. We have the results of ad hoc inspections carried out by health inspection, commercial inspection of agri-food products. During these checks, individual foodstuffs were examined. It is clear that an analysis is being prepared on this basis, the results of which are also obtained on the basis of the use of the method related to the so-called. on a diet of one day, they will tell you how many food additives this consumer can consume per year. Has anyone stood by the Polish statistical family all year long? No. Just like it doesn't stand for 365 days a year by the highway, testing noise measurement. A trial is being made and you, as former inspector of the Supreme Audit Chamber, should know that this is how certain tests are carried out. As regards the information relating to the purchase of aircraft to secure air transport of the most important persons in the country, it should be noted that an irregularity in the purchase of aircraft was detected during the review of the implementation of the State budget in 2017. You're manipulating information again. First of all, you are not correct in substance, and second of all, after a year and a half, you are returning to the conclusion that applied in 2017. This is an example of manipulating facts, data and information. [[Applause]] And, of course, I ignore the fact that you did not make any substantive reference to what we said, because it should be noted that NIK did not question and question the validity of buying VIP aircraft, but only found that the principle of legality was infringed when public funding for defence expenditure was spent, because according to the Council of Ministers' own resolution, the purchase of VIP aircraft was to be realised by increasing the limit of defence expenditure annually beyond the minimum level laid down in Article. 7 Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces. If they wanted to finance the purchase in the way it was done, the rules had to be adjusted in advance so that it was legal. You know best that NIK uses the legality criterion as one of the basic criteria in its work. I will be honest and so human that I am sorry for what Mr. Orion Jędrysek said, indicating that it has happened unauthorizedly to reject his objections. Its reservations were twice the subject of work by the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber. You know that you filed it without written authorization. The NIK Act is unambiguous. The College of NIK, chosen as a result of a joint decision, mine and the Marshal of the Sejm, unanimously decided that these reservations could not be dealt with on formal grounds. And I, for the second or third time, Mr President, wrote back today the Minister for Environmental Protection. I wish you weren't the minister anymore, because if you were to formally get that answer, of course you'd get the message, too. On the formal side, the NIK Act clearly states: the reservations are made either by the head of the unit or by the person who has the appropriate authority. Your authorization was incorrect, and you know it. We would be very happy to make this available to you once again in writing. I understand that you disagree with the entire College of the Supreme Auditorium, and I accept that. It is said: it is difficult, although it would be worth reading the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control at least once. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Exactly, in order to be very precise, the reservations that you submitted, because you signed under them, were without the authority of the Minister of the Environment indicating, and every time, such an authorisation must be attached. [[That's breaking the law.]] That's why I have to say I'm surprised we're back on this case again. I'm moving on to more questions. Of course, we will reply later in writing to those who will not be able to answer. Mrs Stępień asked for a check on mathematics, and I already referred to it, food additives, education reform or mass gear. I hope... The only criterion we follow is, of course, the completion of the audit, and then my colleagues have yet to prepare information on the results of the audit before it is published. That's what we do when we announce individual reports. Indeed, sometimes it takes a little time, but there are no intentions that have any character other than that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want you to have reliable and reliable information. Finally, let me conclude with one sentence. I hope that today's speeches are not a preparation for the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control, because this institution, as shown by international opinions, research of Poles and experts, requires a wise continuation, not a stupid revolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u333	Thank you very much. The Committee rapporteur, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, also expressed his wish to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Allow me to comment on some comments, in particular those made by the President. Perhaps, as a characteristic of most of the questions, I will choose Mr Gierada's question, because you have given examples that prove that no one is hindering the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It follows from the findings - I refer to the examples you have provided - that we should discipline - I apologize for colloquialism - the government and there is no negative response to this. This is not what I was talking about, Mr President, and the other honourable people asking, I was talking about something completely different. I was talking about workshop errors, manipulations of control results, in other words, reprehensible practices. We can be glad that the Supreme Audit Chamber can make arrangements and assessments freely, which is undoubtedly positive, but we cannot accept that, within this freedom, it refers to practices which are usually reprehensible in the world. That's a very diplomatic term. By the way, I would like to point out that none of you have questioned the specifics that I have given you because they cannot be questioned, these are facts. You can possibly say that these reprehensible facts relating to the operation of the Supreme Audit Chamber concern some small percentage of the control. No one has counted this because no one will count these defects, but, please, the Supreme Audit Chamber is the only institution of this type in Poland, it is a unique institution in Poland and it must be beyond suspicion. Such practices cannot be used. I may not comment on the other statements made by your Members, but I will stress once again that the focus of our Committee on State Control has been that the organisation of the Chamber does not guarantee a good quality of work for four years, and now, after four years, we have completed this summary. And the thing is very important, because once again I pay attention: I referred to controls that we did not choose from a pot - we chose for this analysis the controls that journalists, citizens commented on on various web portals, and so on. They're the ones who saw it, and I was talking about it. So the situation is dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, among others. because, unfortunately, for many, many years past, the Sejm has not remained vigilant and has not monitored, contrary to the obligation on it, the quality of the work of the Supreme Auditorium. Now I will go to President Kwiatkowski's statement. Contrary to what you have said, I, in my speech, repeatedly emphasized the very substantive shortcomings of the functioning of the Supreme Audit Chamber, have combined with an assessment of the management within the meaning which I have defined very clearly: the management are the presidents, the counsellors of the President, as you call it, this is the statutory name, and the directors. The leadership level in the Supreme Audit Chamber in recent years - the question of how far back - has simply failed. He failed mainly the controllers, ladies and gentlemen. It's not us. It's the controllers. So this is clear. I'm not gonna talk about not being the organizer of the Sejm's work... [[All glory.]] ...but I would very kindly suggest to the President that he check something out: this 3-month deadline he mentioned is July 8th, so far we're in time. You also referred to my review of the changes in the education system, trying to make the impression that the rapporteur's assumptions had an impact on this assessment. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is extreme dishonesty. Why should we talk about this check and talk about this report? Because in this report three objectives of control were to be met. Maybe one, or, in my opinion, half. The main objective of the audit has not been achieved at all. You plan to control with some purpose, you define the purpose of control, and then you fail to do so. Is that okay? This is your way of working? I say immediately: the work of the management, because the controllers, those who go for checks, brought some evidence. It could be used properly by trying to achieve the objectives of control. The state of these three goals certainly failed to achieve two, and in my opinion two and a half. Mr. President also referred to his personal situation by committing, by the way... maybe I'll say another way: by taking away the hack of the mystery of his personality. You said that even if you were convicted at first instance, that wouldn't be a reason to resign. [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Krzysztof Kwiatkowski: No, I was talking about ministers in government.]] I'm so sorry. That's what you said. That's what you said. Don't deny it. [[Voice from the hall: The Constitution says so.]] The truth is, there's no statutory obligation. But where's the honor, Mr. President? You run a unique institution. The fact that you're in an indictment situation, even if it's questionable, requires honorable behavior. What? It depends on who's president and what kind of honor he has. What a sense of honor you have, we just heard it. Speaking of this control of math teaching, you referred to Finland, for example, so shyly, just in an annex, I am saying that Finland is currently withdrawing from its many years and many times praised education system. But let's just let it go. You also referred to the fact that there are many interesting conclusions from my control of math teaching. Well, in my speech, please check it out, I was talking about the fact that there are many interesting conclusions from this check. She's really interesting. The problem is that you are alone, i.e. The management of the Supreme Audit Chamber, as the leading conclusion, was the one you made, which is not coming out of nowhere. And why do I know you put pressure on that? Because you've published a press release on this matter, not this one. You have a fondness for juggling sensations, not to monitor the way the state operates. Controllers know how to do it, but you've somehow forgotten it. As for the E allowances you mentioned, your manipulation is once again based on the fact that there are numerous conclusions from this check, but you yourself have exposed the only one where the only information base is the Filipino portal. For God's sake, this is a joke. [[Who's here to control...]] And finally, I'm gonna talk about VIP transport control. That's really funny. You accused me of dealing with old control. This is the audit that was carried out in 2018 and we are evaluating the work in 2018. This is the budget control for the 2017 budget, but carried out in 2018. She is included in the list attached to this report, which is here with her. I'm wearing it. She's in there. So, Mr. President, it's not the committee of state control, let alone me, it's making abuses, it's you in the argument, which is unreliable, based on known eristic methods, that is, falsifying disputes. You're trying to argue with us, and at the same time you don't feel responsible for the fact that you've been running the E.R. for six years... [[Voice from the room: He's in charge.]] ...which somehow, in part, characterizes your speech in one of the famous conversations at the Owl and Friends restaurant. I'd be glad if you could remember it yourself, but you probably don't remember, so I'll remind you that when you talk to Mrs. Elizabeth Bieńkowska... [[Voice from the room: Embarrassing...]] ...he was laughing at the fact that the Supreme Auditorium still has the reputation you mentioned here, because, as you say, it is quite wrong. Thank you very much. [[And can you quote Prime Minister Morawiecki, too?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u335	Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek, the Law and Justice have submitted a request for correction. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I don't think you understand me. Four checks were to the same extent, three were the same person, the same competence, under the same authority or in the absence, as you say, of authorizations. In the three audits, you take this into account, this person is invited, participates in the college and is well taken into account, and at the fourth you are not allowed to comment, even though several hundred pages - 500, maybe more pages - of documents that you have not considered, I do not know why, or have considered, I do not know, but rather not, several pages of the guide letter, once, twice, you do not take that into account. Even if an outsider, any street person, came in anonymously and provided such important documents, would you consider it or not? I think that you should take this into account in accordance with the principle of fairness. It wasn't there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, Mr. President, that's what this is all about. Take a look at this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u337	You may not consider it, but you should look at it, regardless of who submits these documents. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, expressed his preference. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u338	I'm sorry, sometimes a certain kinderztub makes us ununderstood. No, sir, I wasn't talking about myself. I am directing this to Mr Dziuby. When I said there was an example. a public person convicted by a court of first instance, I was talking about a minister who is in the current government. [[Applause]] And I would like to stress this very strongly, just because of the courtesy I didn't say it so precisely, but I said so clearly that your attempt to manipulate me makes me uncomfortable at best. What is the difference between the presumption of innocence and the judgment of the court, you should know. I stress that this is the judgment of the Court of First Instance. In addition, you say that in the case of e.g. The only important proposal was the quantity of additives that consumers can consume. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the number of applications, dozens of applications. What are you hoping for? That no one's gonna get that document? Why are you missing the truth? [[Applause]] Why are you manipulating this room again? Using time, I read: The Supreme Audit Iza has requested: to undertake and develop a common, uniform methodology for all Member States of the European Union to collect information on the consumption and use of food additives; to take action by means of a decision of the European Commission to establish separate limits for the Polish market of additives for which there is a risk of exceedance; to establish a single, specialised food safety service competent in assessing each quality element of the product intended for consumption, including both health and commercial quality; to take legislative action to change the labelling of food products containing additives so that it shows the actual level of additives in the product concerned, while referring to the maximum value specified for the additive concerned and to acceptable daily intake of the substance concerned; to create conditions for reliable monitoring of intake with the diet of the additional substances based on the data used in the products on the actual levels of substances for identification and possible risk of intake. Ladies and gentlemen! I read a third of these conclusions. We have just heard from the Member that there is only one important conclusion that we have put emphasis on the quantity of additives that can be consumed by the consumer. I ask myself -- once again we meet in this room -- what you're hoping for. That Members will not take a document that is publicly available and will not verify that you are not telling the truth? How can you say that this is the only fundamental conclusion when there are dozens of them in this document? I'm just embarrassed because it's the worst possible signal to the employees of the Supreme Auditorium when you're trying to bring the effects of their work into one sentence. That's not true. Please pay attention. not for media information, but for actual reports that we publish with documents that are attached to it. I am all the more surprised that you are a former employee of the Supreme Audit Chamber and that you should be best aware of the functioning of our institution. Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of the Ministry of National Defence, I will repeat once again that this was an expenditure in the 2017 budget, which was assessed in the report on the implementation of the budget in 2018. It's 2019. Today we do not judge expenditure from 2017. The report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber does not cover expenditure for 2017, their assessment. Ladies and gentlemen! You said that the audit objectives for changes in the education system were not met. All the targets have been met. The main objective was: Did the education system change properly and effectively? The specific questions were: Were changes in the education system properly prepared and effectively implemented? No. We have assessed that, unfortunately, this has not been prepared in line with the scale of the challenges. Have schools and their bodies managed properly and effectively changed the local and organisational conditions resulting from the reform? No. We noted that unfortunately, the scale of change, the time for starting and finishing classes has increased, and the classes have been since hours. 7:00 a.m., sometimes they end at hours. 18. Did the institutions responsible for the reform have effective and adequate cooperation? Here we also had an evaluation of the information policy of the Ministry, cooperation with local self-government units. What are you hoping for? After all, it's all in this document, in a report that anyone can reach. Do you hope that if you say that the main objectives have not been met, the language of the audit methodology, it will sound so beautiful that no one will verify it? After all, it is enough to reach out to these documents to see that I would say nicely: you were missing the truth by saying these words. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! You will see next year that Mr Dziuba will be the one who will say that NIK has changed like a touch of a magic wand. 18 years and four CEOs I didn't like personally, I don't know why he mismanaged this institution. But you'll see next year that no one works great after a year, wonderfully, and we have no comment on it. I would say this: he will act wonderfully, very well and professionally if he continues to rely on excellent controllers, excellent major specialists, counselors, inspectors, directors and advisors of the CEO of NIK. Thank you again for your work. You are the strength of this institution. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u339	Please, once again, as corrected, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u340	I'm not gonna do that in detail, I'm just gonna... [[Voice from the room: Then why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u341	Or maybe you're just gonna straighten out... You are to correct your statement, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u342	...I'll just do it illustratively, if you don't mind. 18 years old, Mr. Chairman, not four CEOs, just three. Because the term lasts six years, so something about this math is wrong. That's first of all... [[Voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus. Weak, weak.]] Secondly, I did not mention that from the control concerning so-called. Appendix E, the conclusion I quoted, is the only one. I told you he was deliberately exposed by you, and there's no evidence for that. In any case, in your control, because maybe somewhere else. The same applies to the control of mathematics. I simply said that this is an audit which has a number of interesting findings and a number of interesting conclusions, but not this country you have exposed, but you have exposed something that does not result from the findings of the audit at all. It doesn't even come from the expertise you've been waiting eight months for. So it's not the State Control Commission, it's not me manipulating, Mr. President, it's you who's somehow soaked up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The methods that the Prussian philosopher Schopenhauer once described in his book Erystics, or the art of conducting false disputes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u343	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I listened attentively to Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The main objective of each NIK audit is to determine the actual situation in the area concerned, reliable documentation and evaluation. The activities of the local authorities shall be verified in terms of legality, economy and reliability. Non-public entities - in terms of legality and economy and state entities, e.g. State administrations - in terms of legality, economy, reliability and purpose. Inspectors shall, when verifying the legality of the activities audited, pay particular attention to whether they are carried out in accordance with the provisions of applicable law. The analysis of the controlled activity in terms of economy is intended to indicate whether the money was used cost-effectively and efficiently and the expenditure was proportional to the results obtained. As regards reliability, the inspectors verified whether the audited entities fulfilled their duties with due care, diligence and timely care. With regard to the purpose criterion, it is only applicable in the case of control of public entities. The purpose is to assess whether the activities carried out by the audited entity were for the purposes set for it by law. However, returning to the report, an important control of the NIK was the control of procedures applied to those wishing to adopt children. What the NIK particularly draws attention to is the lack of uniform state requirements and criteria applied during adoption, which makes practice significantly different in individual centres. Depending on the centre, e.g. other documentation, other training shall be recognised. The existing adoption procedures are overly complicated and too chronic. The main reasons for the extended adoption procedure are the lack of children with a regulated legal situation, which prevents adoption, and the long-term waiting for training of candidates for parents. The average duration of the adoption procedure is 2 years. This refers to the period from the time of registration of parents in the database to the decision by the court to grant custody of the child. Another year or even two years should be added to these 2 years when parents expect courses and workshops to prepare them for the role of adoptive parent. Actually, it's okay. Three, four years waiting for adoption. The NIK report clearly shows how many changes should be implemented, so that adoptions in Poland are an opportunity for both children and couples unable to have their own offspring. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber should be assessed by the prism of the work of all workers employed in NIK, political sympathies and antipathy must be separated. The work of NIK officials is at a high level, and the report is the effort and work of a whole crowd of people employed there, not just its president. I would also like to say that the discussion about the activities of NIK, whether we like it or not, is conducted in conjunction with the situation of its President. Personally, I take the view that we should not lose sight of the principle of presumption of innocence. To me, President Kwiatkowski is innocent until he is convicted by a final judgment of the court. The rejection of the report really depreciates the work and skills of all NIK employees, not its president. If the President of the NIK has infringed the law, he should suffer the consequences by criminal proceedings, possibly civil proceedings, or by appeal from his post. In conclusion, for these reasons, I recommend that the report of the President of NIK be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u345	The discussion requested that the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber be rejected in 2018. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code (prints no.3386 and 3386-A). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł to present the justification of the bill along with the self-correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u346	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This proposal implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017, specifically Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, by penalising the conduct of travelling to another Member State, as regards intentional conduct, in order to commit or contribute to the terrorist offence referred to in that Directive. Secondly, it is about participating in the activities of an organised terrorist group, knowing that such participation will contribute to the criminal activities of that group and the conduct of activities or training for terrorism, as referred to in Article. 7 and 8 directives. The implementation of the Directive will be carried out by amending the article that is currently envisaged to commit a terrorist offence. Then, in view of these issues, we propose that we remove the article from the provision. 259a in the territory of another country. So, by renouncing the article. 259a of the Penal Code by deleting the words "in the territory of another country' from it, we will thus be able to punish acts involving crossing the border, crossing the territory of another Member State for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence or an offence referred to in Article. 255a, i.e. dissemination of content likely to facilitate the commission of a crime, or Article. 258 § 2 or 4, i.e. organized group and criminal union. This will extend the scope of criminalisation to conduct involving crossing the Polish border, also in order to commit the above mentioned crimes in its territory. So much for the project. The autocorrection, on the other hand. In the first point, it strengthens the responsibilities of multi-religiousists. Council Framework Decision of 24 October 2008 on combating organised crime obliges our country to adapt its law towards adopting appropriate rules, sanctions and recognition as an aggravating circumstance for participation in an organised criminal group. I'm talking specifically about art. 3. In particular, it's an article. 3 (1) (a) 2 The Framework Decision requires the Member State to take the necessary measures to ensure that the fact that a criminal offence has been committed in an organised criminal group should be regarded as an aggravating circumstance. That's one thing. Secondly, the recommendations of the Commission Communication to the Council and the European Parliament of 2 June 2005 indicate that more severe penalties, appropriate to the offences committed by organised criminal groups, should be implemented. The lack of strict regulation in this respect, as regards the return to the crime of members of organised criminal groups, is an inappropriate, inadequate implementation of the provisions of Framework Decision 2008/841, as well as those recommendations. It is also worth mentioning in the third paragraph the United Nations Convention against International Organised Crime of 15 November 2000, which Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points to the need to tighten up penalties for members of organised criminal groups. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, in Polish law, multiple offenders, and therefore persons who are sentenced for the third time to imprisonment, can count on conviction within the lower limits of the sentence. The rule clearly indicates: above the lower limit of the statutory threat, above, so it can only be 1 month above. The proposal therefore provides that, in the face of such perpetrators, multi-religiousists, the court will have to impose a sentence of imprisonment ranging from a double of the lower statutory threat increased by half. Today it can only tighten it up, but it does not have to. Secondly, tightening the responsibilities of sexual offenders. Art. The 9th Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography shows that the offences referred to therein should be severely punished. In particular, it's about sex offenders. Meanwhile, in Polish law, these perpetrators can count on the sentence of imprisonment even below the lower statutory threat through the so-called. exceptional relaxation of the penalty. Article 1 shall apply. 64 § 1, which indicates that they are punishable to the upper limit of the statutory threat increased by half. The draft provides that the court will have to impose a sentence of imprisonment ranging from the lower limit of the statutory threat increased by half to the upper limit of the statutory threat increased by half, both in the case of offences and crimes. Today, first of all, the court can only tighten the upper limit, and it does not have to do so, second, it does not concern crime at all, and thirdly, we have this situation today that the court can impose punishment within the lower limits, even below the lower limits. Thus, our current legislation does not implement this Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Thirdly, tightening the responsibility of perpetrators of crimes and crimes within organized criminal groups. Council Framework Decision of 24 October 2008, which I have already mentioned, on combating organised crime in Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 obliges Member States to treat as an aggravating circumstance the perpetrators in organised criminal groups. However, in our legislation, we have a solution that allows the court to punish such perpetrators within its lower limits. Art. 65, which refers to Article. 64 § 2, indicates the penalty: above the lower limit of the statutory threat, thus generally such a penalty can be imposed within the lower limits. There is a proposal that, against the perpetrators of such crimes, but also crimes, penalties should be increased accordingly. As far as vices are concerned, twice the lower risk of crimes, half the increase. Another change is the tightening of the responsibility of perpetrators in organised criminal groups, setting up and directing these criminal groups, Article. 258. This is an appropriate increase in sanctions, twice in each type of prohibited act indicated in those paragraphs. Finally, the self-correction proposal provides for compliance with European Union law on searches in prisons, as well as on telephone calls made by inmates in prisons. Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union indicates that rights guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and resulting from constitutional traditions common to Member States form part of Union law as general principles of law. In its judgment in Dejnek v Poland and Milka v Poland, the Court pointed out that there is no doubt that the search rules should be governed by the law. The requirement to undergo personal checks must be governed by the law, in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which is transposed into European Union law, that is, Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 treaty. The same decision was issued by our Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 14 December 2017, sygn. Act 17/14. Thus, the self-correction implements the standards of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, fulfilling both the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and our Constitutional Tribunal's requirements. And last but not least, ensuring security in the penitentiary units. Here, too, the mentioned article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, referring to the law of the Council of Europe, requires us to refer to the European prison rules, which indicate in point 24.2 that communication and visits may be subject to the restriction and monitoring necessary for the continuation of investigations, the maintenance of order, security, the prevention of criminal offences and the protection of victims of crime. However, such restrictions, including certain restrictions imposed by the judicial authorities, may provide for minimum contact. And the amendment introduced in July 2015 allowed for contact without any restrictions. The adoption of this solution disorganized the internal order in penitentiary facilities, caused gigantic abuses by those deprived of freedom, forced the need to adapt the rules of operation of the penitentiary units to one of the elected powers of those deprived of freedom. In fact, the full implementation of the solutions adopted at that time has made it difficult and, in extreme cases, prevented other people who were deprived of freedom from exercising their powers. After all, if one person calls all the time, another person won't be able to make those calls. Even at school, a student can't make phone calls during class when he likes it, but in prison, the inmates have the right to a phone call at any nod and call their wives, lovers or lawyers. We're introducing new rules. The right to contact, of course, remains - the right to contact a lawyer, a lawyer once a week - and it must be clearly pointed out that, first of all, this must not affect the rights of others imprisoned by blocking their access to such calls, and secondly, it should not interfere with the order established in the prison. The adoption of the proposed solution will maintain the right of persons deprived of freedom to contact the defender, in justified cases even in unlimited quantities - Article. 8 § Article 2 and Article 2 217c § 1a of the proposed amendment. This will also allow full and secure implementation of the powers of other inmates. This will not limit absolutely other forms of contact between those deprived of freedom and their legal representatives. At the moment, there are more than 9 thousand in circulation. consents for persons temporarily arrested. It is estimated that in one unit there are about 127 approvals of this type. The head of such an entity shall in no way be able to organise or arrange such contacts with the outside world, which could give rise to the risk of abuse and the risk of the unlawful transfer of information of all kinds outside the penal facility. This could also threaten the victims of the crime and its witnesses, so ordering this system is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u347	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Detailed discussion of the project is missed because the Minister has just discussed the proposed legislative changes in detail and detail. Therefore, it remains for me to address the project in a general way. It is worth pointing out once again that the project responds to, and actually implements to some important extent the law of the European Union, e.g. by tightening criminal liability for particularly dangerous crimes and crimes, in particular those against a sexual background. Further issues concern the clarification of the Enforcement Penal Code and the Prison Service rules. As previously pointed out by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, certain restrictions on the rights and freedoms of the convicted should be regulated at the statutory level and not at the legal level of the lower rank. Therefore, in response to these judgments, the draft submitted by the government meets the requirements set out in those judgments. In general, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of further proceding the project and fully supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u349	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When discussing the draft law on amending the Law of the Criminal Code, the implementing Penal Code, it is not possible at the outset, before moving on to the substantive part of the project, not to mention the circumstances in which it was introduced for today's deliberations. As Deputy Minister Warchoł mentioned, the project consists of two elements. One of them is the original draft law, the other submitted to the draft government autocorrection. There would be nothing out of the ordinary if not for the fact that the original bill submitted in April, or two months ago, contained in fact one provision concerning the special section of the Penal Code, which the Deputy Minister briefly referred to. Opinions have been prepared for this provision. As I said, it would not raise any doubts, if not for the fact that literally two days ago a self-correction containing nearly 20 pages of provisions completely unrelated to the original submission, the provisions concerning the general part of the Criminal Code, the amendment of the principle of punishing persons who are acting in a repeat or who are making a permanent source of income from the crimes committed, the provisions concerning the wide changes in the Criminal Code. I'm abstracting these changes so far, and I'm just talking about the way we proceed in Parliament. It is about proceding such a way that no one is able under normal circumstances to prepare to make a substantive reference to this project at first reading. Therefore, there are no opinions that should be the basis for this debate and there was no possibility to consult in this regard. Mr. Vice Minister! I'm really referring to you here as an outrage. Under these circumstances, it is impossible to work normally, especially since these are non-controversial provisions that should be worked on in a normal way. They affect to a large extent the scope of fundamental rights, because we are talking about the limits of searching for people who are imprisoned, the implementation of the rules introduced by the Council of Europe and the European Parliament. And there was nothing to prevent these laws from being included in the last revision of the Penal Code, which you had prepared after months of analysis, as you claim, in January, which was investigated in Parliament at an express rate. We have practically changed the entire Penal Code, including the general part and the principles of the penalty, and today, practically after a week in which we debated the Senate's amendments, further amendments to the Penal Code are being made. What prevented these projects from being discussed in the last submission or before? There is absolute chaos in the debate on code changes. I am pleased that the Ministry is introducing these regulations at the end of its term of office. As the Deputy Minister himself mentioned, these are Parliament's directives and regulations a few years ago. This should be done in a more civilised way, i.e. leave this Penal Code in its original submission and bring in a separate bill in a normal manner. Therefore, as I said at the outset, without assessing the substance, without at least raising major objections at the first reading stage to this project, excluding, of course, all the procedural issues that I mentioned in this speech, the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition, calls for further investigation of this project. On the other hand, I am appealing here to the representatives of the Minister of Justice. If, once again, we are to work on rules that affect civil rights and freedoms, they affect broad code changes, this should be preceded by a normal submission to ensure that parliamentarians work under normal circumstances. It should not be that the day before the meeting there is a 20-page self-correction in which the government can really push through what it wants, because no one can get a fair look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u352	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will admit that the draft law amending the Law of the Criminal Code and other laws is not controversial as to its content, the substance layer. Firstly, because there is a single provision which was originally intended to be the only provision for the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament. It is a matter of clarification of the rules relating to these most serious crimes of terrorism. Nor are there any controversy, as I stress, the changes proposed in the self-regulation on the provisions on the redecision, the tightening of those provisions. It is about some clarification, ordering, which is expressed in the proposed amendments to the provisions of the Implementing Penal Code. On the other hand, I must admit that this project is probably a test, whether Members read what is being submitted to them. If you go to the Sejm, it is clearly stated in print No 3886 that the project concerns a change in principle of one provision concerning the issue of terrorist offences. And that's it. On the other hand, if you go into the autocorrection, it turns out that the autocorrection does not actually improve the original submission, but is in fact a completely new submission, which of course includes a new article. 259a, if I'm not mistaken, the Penal Code. I wonder, Minister, but I must follow Mr Myrcha, why such a way of proceeding as far as self-correction is concerned. I understand that if something is an autocorrection, it is to correct what has been submitted. In fact, the state in this self-correction, which is twice as extensive as the original submission, give a new submission. I do not know whether this is a matter of keeping deadlines, because the rules, as we know, are governed by different legislative principles. Seems pretty weird. In my opinion, it is it is absolutely unnecessary, because it may be, as it is said, the water on the mill for those Members who will probably be at the committee's meeting in a moment, that these are statements which are not in accordance with the rules, which are not in accordance with the constitution, etc. I am surprised that the provisions contained in this self-correction are not simply filed as another printing number. At the same time, I am warning the Minister's possible answer, because he will probably say: and yet he recently said that we do not need so many changes, that it is wrong to process changes in laws so frequently. Okay, for this compilation plus, Minister. However, it has to be said that this original presentation, i.e. printing no.3386, was from April. It's about proceding changes in the Penal Code. In the meantime, there was also quite a significant change in the criminal code regulations related, among others. on issues of pedophilia offences, tightening these rules. This is what we were dealing with in May and June. Now it turns out that in April there was one draft amendment to the Penal Code law, in May there was another one that we were working on at the turn of May and June, and now, in July, there is still a new one that we are working on together on what was in April. Minister, this creates a mess. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Kukiz Members' Club15 is in favour of sending this project to committee, is in favour of working in committee. As I said, on a substantive level, these are important and necessary provisions, so they need to be leaned over in committee, examined and adopted as soon as possible. But for the future, a little less chaos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u353	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present a position on the government proposal for a law amending the Penal Code, prints no. 3386 and 3386-A. We do not comment on the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, which are supposed to extend and improve anti-terrorism protection in our country. It was an obvious lack in the current legal state that the crossing of the Polish border in order to commit terrorist offences in its territory was not legalized. However, it should be noted that most of the provisions of this Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council have already been implemented in the Polish legal system. As part of the self-correction accompanying the project, the authors propose a number of other amendments to the Penal Code. The draft proposes to give a new wording to the article. 155 of the Penal Code, which determines the penalty for manslaughter, in line with the demands of among others. The Chief Medical Council... [[Voice from the room: There is no such thing.]] ...and the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics. Currently, manslaughter is punishable by imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. The Penal Code provides for the same sanction, e.g. For shoplifting, forgery of school cards, and destruction of property. [[Mr President, this is not the project.]] Therefore, the authors of the project propose to place these borders between 6 months and 8 years of imprisonment. Such a solution will provide a wider possibility for sentences of imprisonment to be imposed in the extent that the sentence can be suspended on a conditional basis. The next amendment concerns the addition of a new wording to the article. 65 of the Criminal Code - new principles of punishment, criminal measures and measures to test the perpetrator against certain perpetrators who commit crimes in connection with circumstances indicating the organized and planned nature of criminal activity. This proposal is aimed at combating the most serious organised crime and aims to take appropriate measures towards this category of perpetrators to carry out the protective functions of criminal law. In turn, the amendments relating to the implementation of the new Chapter XXa in the Penal Code, the Control of convicted and provisionally arrested, require the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The new chapter regulates the way in which convicted and temporarily arrested persons are dealt with. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, the project should continue to be procedated. I also have a problem, it is what the previous speakers said, and it concerns this self-correction, which is extremely extensive in terms of the subject matter of regulation. However, we believe that matter should be regulated and, therefore, according to the club, the project should be continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u355	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Grabowski, first Member of the Kukiz club15. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u356	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's one question for this autocorrection. What makes you think that, in the form of an autocorrection, we should make such a far-reaching change? Does the Minister consider it appropriate, appropriate, also in terms of possible, as I stressed in my speech on behalf of the club, undermining the rules, the style of work, the style of proceding? This raises doubts. As I say, at the substantive level, there are no objections to these provisions, they should be implemented in the legal order in Poland, but the question is, where did you come up with such an idea? Can't you? was it made in a separate print form or included in the print no.3386 autorepair that only appeared two days ago? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u357	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was interested in the subject directly related to the implementation of the Directive, because the directive in Article. 7 and 8 talk about penalising the conduct or training for terrorism. I understand that this is training in a Member State of the European Union. I understand that the provision proposed by you in this amendment includes this requirement of the directive, and I would like to ask what is the issue of penalisation of the situation that is often taking place, and we are also meeting it in other European countries, i.e.. such as when our citizens are training for e.g. Islamic states somewhere in the Middle East, then return to Poland. How much of this direction is it that you have the opportunity to act here? There are known cases from other countries of the European Union where such persons are not admitted, even though they are citizens, they are not allowed into their own country. Passports, citizenship are removed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u359	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u360	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! I'll start with the second question. Yes, indeed, this training can be anywhere, there are no limits. On the other hand, when a Polish citizen travels abroad, e.g. to Syria, he's trained there, he's back in the country, he's the kind of case we want to embrace. It's a very broad line. That's why we wanted to include the maximum number of cases. It is clear that training does not take place in another country of the European Union, but most often takes place outside the European Union. So this is the case when we absolutely want to amend the article accordingly by implementing this directive. 259a so that all these cases can be monitored and operated. If something wasn't a crime, and today it's a crime, then you can control these situations. So far it's been outside the Penal Code. So the change is very much needed and thank you for supporting this to all the parliamentary clubs. Mr Grabowski, I am addressing Mr Grabowski - what gave you the idea? Well, terrorist activity, organized crime groups, has this to do with the fact that it is a repetitive activity. The number of cases - in the course of the discussion in the committee I will present statistics - is committed by organised criminal groups, terrorist groups. The perpetrators are the recidivists or the multinationals. This is a serial activity, repeatable. The latest statistics I received show how often these perpetrators who commit not one crime, but many crimes, ask about the so-called. the combined penalty. 71% the cases in which a collective penalty is applicable, which is decided in the event of a number of offences, relate precisely to organised groups. What does that say? That if criminals are involved in an organized group, they don't commit one crime, they commit a series of crimes: today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, a year from now. It's kind of like when someone starts a business. Well, in this case, you could say, he's setting up a criminal group, calculating that seriality, that repetition, and that he's not going to get caught. There are various specializations. We want to put it comprehensively with regard to these most dangerous criminals. We are also pointing out European Union law, the 2008 directive, which has not been properly implemented. After all, it is a huge misunderstanding that the perpetrators of organized criminal groups - the recidivists, I stress, the multi-decidists - can today count on punishment being imposed below the lower threshold of danger, for extraordinary relaxation of punishment, for punishment being imposed within the lower limits. This is a huge misunderstanding. All the directives we have collected in recent years, the anti-terrorist directives, the anti-Mafia directives, have not been properly implemented. I'm saying this with full awareness. And this is a good time to start discussing whether our national law is in line with European Union law on the fight against organised crime, the most dangerous, serial one. Hence, sir, the idea of a self-correction, not a separate project. In this respect, in our opinion, there is absolutely one connection with the other. We want to discuss in committee and I am very interested in your vote, your opinion as to whether this is a tightening which we have proposed: twice the lower risk - perhaps you will propose even more stringent - is enough or not. We have checked in other countries and there absolutely the recriminals are not treated this way, additionally operating in organized groups, mafia groups, they are not as stroked on the head as we are: the lower limit of the threat of punishment and thank you very much or even below the lower threat. No, this most violent crime should be prosecuted and punished with all seriousness. Therefore, once again, I thank you very much for supporting this project, and as regards the procedure, I point out that it results from the desire to address the whole problem comprehensively and to show that we, in implementing European Union law properly, are only implementing it at the moment. We have said many times that our law is one of the most lenient in the European Union. We've shown it, and we're showing it again right now. Finally, European Union law should be properly implemented, and criminals operating in organised criminal groups, criminals acting in such a way, should meet with the most severe response of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u361	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u362	I would like to ask the Minister whether the design of the art. 8 § The 5th Executive Penal Code is certainly sufficient to prevent the transfer of conversations to a person other than the defender, taking into account the current technical capabilities of telecommunications.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u363	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Penal Code in prints 3386 and 3386-A to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 16 July. I'm declaring a time-out. 7:30. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 30 hours 19 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Waste Act and certain other laws, - amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws. These are prints 3588 and 3565 respectively. Therefore, I have decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted proposals: - on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs, printing No 3596, - on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 3597. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. The Group of Members submitted a proposal to appoint a member of the Commission for the reprivatisation of Warsaw real estate, print No 3576. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and paragraph 1. 9 (1) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers has notified the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the agreement of the Ninth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union, the First Additional Protocol to the General Rules of the World Postal Union, the World Postal Convention together with the Final Protocol, the Postal Payment Services Agreement drawn up in Istanbul on 6 October 2016. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is in print 3589. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles, print No 3593. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles (prints No 3584 and 3593). I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Mr Piotr Babinetz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After today's work within the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present a draft resolution in the content of the recommended High House. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the success of the Polish delegation during a peace conference concluded with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the signing during the solemn ceremony of the peace treaty ending World War I. This document stated the fact that the Polish State had regained independence. It outlines the western borders of the Second Republic of Poland and recognises Poland's access to the sea. On behalf of the Nation, we pay tribute to Polish delegates for a peace conference in Paris with Prime Minister Ignacy Paderewski and President Roman Dmowski. Their signatures submitted on 28 June 1919 under the Versailles Treaty sealed the return of the Republic to maps and crowned the long-term work done to rebuild the state. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland commends Ignacy Paderewski's efforts, which led to the adoption by allies of a kind attitude towards the independence of the Republic of Poland. The High Chamber recalls the outstanding merits of the Polish case during the negotiations by the President of the Polish National Committee Roman Dmowski, including the famous speech at the meeting of the Supreme Council, in which he presented the position of Poland and territorial demands supported by maps and studies. As representatives of the Nation, we also express our great gratitude to the members of the Polish National Committee in Paris, the Polish diplomatic service and all the ancestors who helped to recognise the independence of the Republic of Poland at the Paris Peace Congress. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u365	Thank you. I propose that the Sejm adopt a resolution. I understand that the Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the success of the Polish delegation during a peace conference concluded with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. We would like to return to the review of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be adopted in the form of a print submission No 3483. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3483, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 399, against - 1, holding down 3. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and the Act on corporate income tax. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3247-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! In a nutshell. The changes we propose to the High House are all about removing the Conversion Fund with consequences from the existing wording of the law on the support of borrowers. These are three amendments and the Committee on Finance recommends the High House three times. I hope that, after heated discussions, the High House will accept this solution. There are no simple things, but these are good things. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u367	Thank you. I remind you, it's 3247. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes to remove from the draft law the provisions on the Conversion Fund and its related solutions. Amendments 2 to 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u368	For many months, for three years you said you wanted to help so-called. to the franchise. Finally, a solution was adopted to improve the draft law submitted by the Platform in 2015, improving only the criteria. You pointed out the Conversion Fund, which will be mandatory for the change of contracts in parts of banks that do not implement the resolution programme, giving the possibility to change the terms of credit agreements. That's what you pulled out of yesterday. Thus, in this law, you are merely improving the conditions, the possibility of granting credit, support in a difficult situation for customers. You're not solving any problem. There are three projects you didn't want to vote on. You've cheated $700,000 for three years. borrowers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You promised to change the terms of your contract. Thank you very much. We're... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u369	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. For - 232, against - 119, 49 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th Amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 8. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole campaign in 2015, first presidential, then parliamentary - you had people with loans in foreign currency that you would help them. Four years in this Seym, you have been deceiving the so-called. The franchises that their problems will be solved. Now, at the end of your term, you are withdrawing from any solutions that would be addressed to this group of voters that you have promised, as I have said, both in the parliamentary and presidential campaign. Mr President, whose representative did not come to plenary even today, did not only take a step backwards - he just put up a white flag. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u371	Ask questions. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 6 and 7, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 231, against - 142, holding 42. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Krystyna Skowronska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u372	It's the white flag of the President, it's the white flag of the government-- the withdrawal from promises that have been made 500,000. people who have taken the so-called franc loans. Today you're trying to say whatever you're doing. You are only improving the criteria for the support of borrowers, i.e. the bill prepared by the Civic Platform and implemented. You're not doing anything. Three projects: Presidential spread, liquidation or conversion - the Civic Platform project, as well as Kukiz15. So you put up a white flag. This shows how you can promise and get out of it. Why, Minister, do you first have a Polish mom that you want to do something? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And today you put up a white flag? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u373	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We have a problem. The platform says it's their project, the president says it's his project. Figure out whose project this is, actually. This is the first case. [[Voice from the room: Just read.]] Second thing. You have to lie about it. This is not a project that solves the problem of so-called. Franc loans. I don't know why a maniac from this podium has been told in the media for weeks that this is a Frankowicz project. Ladies and gentlemen, the three franchise projects are still waiting in Mr Cymanski's subcommittee, the finance committee. The subject isn't settled. In a word, Mr. President still has one point unfinished. One more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking small, 600 million. The TSUE will settle billions from banks and give them to consumers. And that's just because there was no civil courage in this House, on either side, to approach it in a man's way and get it done. it is as necessary, according to the law, for Polish citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u375	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 3247, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 240, against - 5, with a hold of 169. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 3514. The question is asked by Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Seym of the previous term of office made a big mistake: he appointed Adam Bodnar as Ombudsman, who became the spokesperson of the extreme left. Therefore, near the Confederation today calls on all members of all clubs: sign the request for the cancellation of Adam Bodnar. I'm about to deliver all the club presidents...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u377	Speak on the subject, sir, because you are not speaking on the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u378	...the text of this proposal. There's a majority in this Seym until Adam Bodnar is dismissed, and that's what we're appealing for. [[You're gonna have to appeal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u379	Mr President, I draw your attention. You say no about it. [[Voice from the room: Not the first time.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3514, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -413, against -1, holding six. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the system of institutions for development. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3533-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 3 July a joint meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development took place on a governmental draft law on the system of institutions for development. After a detailed analysis of the various articles and adoption of the amendment, I recommend, on behalf of the joint committees, the adoption of this draft law important for Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u381	Please. The committees bring, I remind you, the adoption of the project from print 3533. In an additional report, the committees will present an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 21 Act on the System of Development Institutions. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For -404, against -1, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole question will be asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three reasons why the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will vote against this law: firstly, the procedure, the failure to submit the bill to public consultation - the protest was submitted by the Confederation of Leviatan and NSZZ - secondly, the lack of response to the reservations and comments contained in the opinion, note, the legislative offices at the President of the Council of Ministers, which in its opinion questioned the need for legal regulation of mechanisms of coordination of independent entities and supervised by various ministers and departments; thirdly, the political submission of institutions supporting entrepreneurship and the economy. I therefore ask Minister Emilewicz whether she took note of the comments of the Legislative Council in front of the President of the Council of Ministers and whether she would like to reply in the High Chamber [[♪ The bell ♪]] to these reservations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u383	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3533, together with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For-- 256, against-- 162, holding off on five. The Sejm passed a law on the system of development institutions. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3534. The committees also present a minority proposal on which the Sejm will vote first. In the minority proposal to Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2d of the law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road and rail, applicants propose that the monetary penalty laid down in that provision be 5 000. zł. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. Za - 186, against - 227, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3534, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For -408, against -3, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3569-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u384	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 3 July in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The High Chamber has again referred the draft law in print No 3569 to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission has, of course, examined these amendments and recommends that the High House adopt them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u385	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 3569 print. The Commission refers to its adoption. The Commission also sets out, in its additional report, the amendments that we will be voting on first. The amendment was tabled in Article 1. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme law. In this amendment to the inserted article. 40a applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 8 and 9 and add paragraphs. 10. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For -421, against -1, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 52 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes a change in the scope of the law's entry into force. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 279, against - 5, holding 131. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 3569, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 412, no one opposed, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft investment law for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3544-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Jan Kilian to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to be the rapporteur during the process of dealing with this very important law ordering the situation of one of the most recognizable places in Poland and the world in connection with the Second World War - Westerplatte. The report of the Committee on Infrastructure in print No 3544 concerns the Parliamentary draft law on investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939 - the branch of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk from print No 3454. The second reading took place on 3 July this year. During the second reading, a proposal was made to reject the project and four amendments were tabled. The project was again addressed to the Infrastructure Committee for the purpose of submitting a report. During the committee's work on 3 July, the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety, together with the amendments, was negative. The Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. The project sets out the terms, conditions and manner of preparation and implementation of investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War required for reasons of public interest. It shall also specify the competent authorities for the preparation and implementation of the investments referred to above and the sources of financing thereof. High Izbo! Westerplatte is an extremely important place for every Pole. It was there that the Germans invaded Poland, and soon after this event war activities covered almost the whole world. That's where our soldiers resisted the enemy. Westerplatte became a symbol of the heroic struggle for Poland during the first hours of the war. There are many examples of places in the world where a soldier's struggle, the death of a soldier in defence of his own homeland or other nations, is extremely worthy of commemoration. Thermopylae, Pearl Harbor or Normandy are for all places clearly associated with fighting, sacrificing battles for their homeland. Thousands of white crosses at the cemetery in Normandy are impressive. The place where the first defenders of the Polish land were killed has been kind of forgotten and underestimated for years. Although this place has recently been cleaned up, during the first reading of the project at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on 18 June many invited guests confirmed the state of this place with their words and various photographs. A few days later, I found a lot of neglect on the peninsula. None other than the President of Gdańsk, referring to the proceedings of the committee, speaking about the outbreak of the Second World War, said the words of Germany, but said that 80 years ago the Second War began, which brought the regime and slavery. During the work of the committee, some Members have even decided to insult the Members of the applicants in an indisputable way. In view of the intention to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War, it was proposed to the authorities of Gdańsk to build the Westerplatte Museum and the Defence War of 1939 as a great national theme. In the world Westerplatte is associated with the place where World War II began. It is willingly visited by Poles and foreigners. For this reason and for many other reasons there should be an open-air museum telling about the details of the 7-day fight between Poles and Germany in the context of the general fight of the Polish state in 1939. It is incomprehensible that the city authorities, having received an offer from the government to invest 150 million in this project, resist and refuse to accept aid, arguing that the city would lose its territory in Gdansk. The Westerplatte area is very disorganized today. You just have to merge these parcels so you can manage them wisely. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But this is not a committee report.]] Government acceptance of the so-called. The specialities on the construction of the Westerplatte Museum are necessary and justified by many arguments. The construction of the Westerplatte Museum itself is the right decision. First of all, a special act is needed to sort out the ownership structure on the Westerplatte peninsula, because without ordering the case, the investment simply cannot start. We want this museum to be built in three, four years. I would like to ask, as rapporteur of this Act, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Infrastructure, for the support of the draft Act on Investment in the Field of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War - Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. I would remind you that the committee recommends rejecting the proposal and rejecting the four amendments tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u387	Thank you. Let me remind you that this is about print 3534. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We will vote first on the proposal submitted by the committee in the additional report to reject the draft law. We will then vote on the amendments. The Commission requests that the proposal to reject the draft law be rejected in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The question to applicants as to the rejection of the bill: Why do you not want to allow the Polish state to honor the memory of Westerplatte heroes and the war of 1939 in a worthy and proper manner? Allow the Polish state to build a real outdoor museum there, which will commemorate this memory. You won't be doing Westerplatte only on September 1st, because that's all you want to do on September 1st is celebrate the outbreak of the war. On the other hand, you do not want to build a decent museum there, which will be proud of the Polish people themselves. Let us. We're gonna make a decent museum you're gonna be proud of. Poles will be proud of it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[As proud as our success.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u389	Mr Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! At this point I would like to read a letter: On behalf of the members of the Circle of the Families of the Former Workers of the Polish Post in the Free City of Gdansk, I object to the prosecution, which has for a long time been aimed at discrediting the city of Gdansk and its inhabitants. We've been chubby for generations. Gdansk has always been an open, multicultural city. His greatest growth was due to his belonging to the Kingdom of Poland. In the interwar period, we were discriminated against by a minority living in constant danger. We are proud of our city and its 1000-year history. This story in the 20th century was cruel to us, and the reason for it was man's hatred for man. We cannot remain silent when we see contempt and hatred today. Poland is our common good no matter what our views are. Let's not waste our chances and build our future. On behalf of the members of the Circle of the Families of the Former Workers of the Polish Post in the Free City of Gdańsk, Henryk Flisykowska-Kledzik. Mr President, are you not ashamed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u391	Thank you, Member. However, I encourage you to comply with the rules of procedure. It follows from the Rules of Procedure that the question may be asked at the point of question, the rapporteur, possibly the applicant or the representative of the government, should be asked. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 163, against - 254, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment, applicants propose to give a different wording to the title of the Act. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since this debate on the part of the PiS is full of lies, the title of this law is also a lie. We propose to give a true title to this law, because it is not a law on building anything. This is not a law on the creation of a museum. It's just a bill trying to get the PiS government to take Westerplatte. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Give it to the Germans.]] And one more thing. I don't know who's been to Westerplatte lately. I encourage you. There's no more war. [[Voice from the hall: Aren't you ashamed?]] [[Voice from the room: Who's saying this?]] And I want to dedicate this inscription to you, because this bill unfortunately you are introducing today, in the Polish parliament of war. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u393	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 159, against - 258, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 18. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u394	Ladies and gentlemen! If PiS wants to take something from the local government, it produces a specialty and takes it that way. There was a lex Szyszko, there was a lex developer, now there's a lex Westerplatte. I wanted to ask you why you do not want to accept the good proposal of President Dulkiewicz to develop this area together. [[Voice from the room: Boo.]] Don't buzz. You're wrong. [[Touchdown, applause]] This isn't the way to talk. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: you were 20 years old.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] In addition, you are introducing this brief legislative path, without consultation, so that as few people as possible can find out about it. What are you trying to hide? We all know that you want to own this area, organize a celebration of the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II and organize your own celebration there. Is that what this is about? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u395	Mr. Jarosław Sellin. As a minister or as a government representative? [[As Minister.]] Here you go, Deputy Minister of Culture Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u396	Dear Members, First of all, the Westerplatte museum wants to organize not the PiS government, but the Polish government. Get used to it. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Get used to the fact that in Warsaw there is a Polish government, which has a democratic mandate, which has won the elections. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Shame on Poles.]] [[Four months.]] Recently, this mandate has been confirmed by the social support expressed also in the elections to the Euro Parliament. [[Applause]] If someone starts wars in such a sacred place as Westerplatte, it is unfortunately a local government fighting against the Polish government. [[Applause]] The Polish government, seeing that for more than a quarter of a century the local government could not manage the development of this area, could not cope with a device worthy of commemoration, which would be appropriate for Poles and for the world... This is the second place indicated by Poles in the geographical ranking of symbols of the times of World War II. Poles point to Westerplatte as the most important place in this area, immediately after Auschwitz-Birkenau. What does it look like since a quarter of a century? [[Voice from the room: How?]] The government couldn't handle it, the Polish government could handle it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] As far as the proposal for cooperation is concerned, despite all cooperation with the city of Gdańsk, this proposal is. [[Voice from the room: After all.]] Firstly, we ask the President of the City of Gdansk to delegate her representatives to the Honorary Committee on Construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the Defence War 1939. It will be a committee that will influence the final shape of this open-air museum. We're waiting for an answer. We ask that she finally delegate her representative to the World War II Museum Council. For 2 years the council has been operating, has a composition of outstanding historians, outstanding museums, very important combatants, and the city boycotts the Museum of the Second World War, which operates in the city of Gdansk. Finally, we ask that the city delegate its representative to the honorary committee for the construction of the monument to Witold Pilecki in Gdańsk. Very important people entered this committee. Even the Marshal of Pomorskie Voivodship from the Civic Platform accepted the proposal, and the President of Gdańsk does not accept the proposal. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] We ask you to cooperate in this matter. Westerplatte should not divide Poles. There shouldn't be a fight around this case, there shouldn't be a war. If anyone starts a war, the local government against the Polish government, and the Westerplatte Museum and the Defence War 1939 will rise there because we are determined. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u397	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 159, against - 263, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 19. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u398	Minister! Cooperation is not forced by laws, and this is one that is introduced by a summary legislative path, without consultation. [[And neither is screaming.]] I wanted to address yesterday's committee meeting here. Ladies and gentlemen! Did you know that one of the Members said that this law must be introduced because the city wants to build this museum together with the Germans. Such nonsense is told on your government television. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] So I have a proposition and a question. [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] Can you turn on your own thinking and stop believing this nonsense? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u399	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 163, against - 260, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 35 applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that the law be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u400	Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment is a litmus paper of your intentions, because if you vote positively, it proves that I am wrong that you want to take over this museum for the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II in order to make your own celebration there, the celebration of one party, not all Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an amendment extending the date of entry into force of this law so that it can be implemented on 13 September at the earliest. Or you can, you want to do it, because the law even includes the immediate feasibility rigor at the investor's request for a decision to allow investment in the Westerplatte museum. You're going this far to speed things up. Therefore, I ask you: What are your intentions? How will you vote? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[I'm sure we know Westerplatte...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u401	Thank you. Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I had some doubts about this law because I am a sincere believer in the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. the state enters only those moments where the sub-level institutions, local and local authorities, cannot cope. On the other hand, let me be honest with you that Mrs Pomaska is dispelling my doubts about supporting this law. Because if in support of yours you also quote a text which does not contain the wording: Germans, Nazis, Poles, it is only about persecuted minorities and the Free City of Gdansk that I am very afraid of, how this museum and how this space, in this atmosphere and organized by such people, will look. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What?]] I mean, you can't allow a German prayer to relativize history, and I'm afraid those who are from the Platform or from the Platform are bound to do exactly that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Correct, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u403	Mr President, this was not a question of the 4th amendment. [[Correct, Marshal.]] We're voting. Who among you is with the adoption of the 4th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 162, against - 261, 1 Member abstained. [[Mr. Marshal, I wanted a corrigendum.]] The Sejm rejected the amendment. There are questions in front of the whole thing. Mr Margaret Chmiel, Civic Platform. [[Mr. Marshal, I wanted to make a corrigendum.]] There's no correction at this point. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Right to corrigendum.]] Quiet, please. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, please follow the rules.]] Madame, please do not make this difficult for me. You weren't quoted... [[Voice from the room: How was it not?]] [[Voice from the room: Was.]] You weren't quoted, so please... [[Voice from the room: Well, how was it not?]] I don't want to interfere with the proceedings. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying in the face.]] [[Voice from the room: There was a name.]] Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u404	Ladies and gentlemen! I've already said that if PiS wants to take something from the local government, it produces a specialty and sets good goals, in this case a museum. Do you know that the last nationalisation by state entities took place in 1945 by decree of Bierut? I wanted to ask you, is this your pattern? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Do you yearn for the right past? There hasn't been an accident since the end of World War II, so that one museum would completely confiscate the other museum. Ladies and gentlemen! What are you trying to do? You don't want to talk to President Dulkiewicz... [[Voice from the room: She doesn't want to.]] ... Even though he's really reaching out to an agreement. He wants to put... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] What are you laughing at? You're just laughing, aren't you? [[We don't even laugh...]] Do you know what you're talking about? He wants a level playing field, he wants the city to come in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the territory, and the country... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ... It's gonna be the money that... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u405	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Marek Jakubiak, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! State speeches from the Civic Platform mean nothing more than that you have absolutely no idea what you're even talking about. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Westerplatte is synonymous with the start of World War II, as is Wieluń, as is the Warsaw Uprising. This is the dignity of the Polish people. We were the first to raise our fists against the Germans. And I ask Mrs Pomaska after this statement, after quoting the letter, to take flowers and go to the sandforests to ask forgiveness for the tens of thousands of gdansk people murdered by the Germans. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable that in situations like Westerplatte, the state should stand and see nothing. The Polish state must react in such situations because it is a Polish country. You can't make dumpsters with Westerplatte! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Dumpster in the head.]] This is the place of honor of a Polish soldier, it is the place of the beginning of World War II. The Germans invaded Europe, let me remind you. That sign you were talking about: Enough war... [[You're lying.]] ...should be in German and Russian because Poland did not start a war. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u407	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Poleczek, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two short questions for the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, using the fact that we are before the vote on the entire bill. I would like you to answer in a synthetic manner the question of the history of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War. And such a second question, which is also worth saying for the second time in the High House, was mentioned by the Minister during the work on the bill: How did this happen, Minister, that guardhouse number 1 in Westerplatte is today managed on behalf of the government of Gdańsk by a company called Kuchnia Polowa? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u409	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the subject is hot for everyone, but the problem is that we moved the Westerplatte war to Warsaw and it should not be. I will tell you more, Madame said that there is a sign: No more war. Yes, there should still be an inscription: Take care of the purity and honor of Poles who died on Westerplatte. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Who defends Poland...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u411	Thank you. Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Nah...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. When he listens to this debate, does he not recall such a cartoon joke, in which two Teutonic Knights look down on Poles fighting underneath and one Teutonic Knight says to another: Oh, Poles began without us. It is really bad for you, gentlemen, that for you the discussion about the Second World War in such an important year is another opportunity to deepen the Polish-Polish war. [[Voice from the room: Not for us.]] Moreover, it seems rather strange that you consider the fact that the German Minister of Defence has become the head of the Council of the European Union as your greatest success in foreign policy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Great success.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u413	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture Mr Piotr Gliński, asks for the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'd like to apologize to all of our countrymen first... [[In your name.]] ...who observe this debate and hear these frivolous opinions, because we, here in the Polish Sejm, are having a debate at this level, [[Applause]] a debate on things that are absolutely obvious. To answer the question of the Member, because I do not want to prolong the speech, I think that we should all, as Poles, remain silent and be ashamed of how this place is commemorated at the moment. We should all be ashamed of ourselves because we should all protest earlier. [[Applause]] However, it is true that some have tried to change this condition. The Westerplatte Museum and the Defence War 1939 were twice appointed, for the first time several years ago, when governments in Poland held Law and Justice with coalitioners, and for the second time at the beginning of the current term, at the end of 2015, when we again established the Westerplatte Museum and the Defence War, because there was no such museum in Poland. You have changed the name of this museum and the message of this museum for the first time appointed to the World War II Museum. We organize and restore memory and order in Polish history. Let us do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We won't allow it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u415	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Correct, Marshal.]] Who among you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3544, would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: The question was.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 262, against - 164, 1 Member abstained. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law on investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939 - a branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk. The formal proposal was made by Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, if I read the name correctly. Request for a break until 3 p.m. 20.50. Please state your reasons. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! I am applying for a recess so that you can listen to the recording and see if I have actually been mentioned and mentioned in two Members so far. You haven't given me the opportunity to correct it. There is one more point to this justification. Mr Marshal, this applies both to Kukiz15 and to my right. I wanted to ask you if you were ashamed. [[Voice from the room: No.]] I quoted a letter from Polish patriots who were persecuted during the war for being Poles. [[It was about something else entirely.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Silence!]] Many of them went to Stutthof camp, many of them did not return from this camp. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u417	The formal application has been submitted. I am merely saying that the honourable Member should not have been corrected, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because you didn't speak at the moment. [[Voice from the room: It belonged.]] [[A voice from the courtroom: scandal, marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you gonna do to me?]] But a formal application has been filed. I'll put him to the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering an adjournment until 3 p.m. 20.50, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 166, against - 258, holding down 5. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Supporting the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. This additional committee report is print No 3545-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A second reading of the draft law on amending the law on support for the development of telecommunications services and networks and certain other laws took place yesterday in plenary. During the second reading of this project, amendments were tabled by three clubs. In the evening, they were addressed by the Commission on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. Following a detailed debate on each amendment, the committee decided to recommend that the High House reject 11 amendments, i.e. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 12, 14, 16, 18, 19 and 20, and adoption of 10 amendments, i.e. Amendments 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 17 and 21, and adoption of the entire draft law, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Witold!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u419	Thank you. Remind me, it's a 3545 print. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. The additional report has tabled amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the law on support for the development of telecommunications services and networks. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1 applicants propose a new wording of points 4 and 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Art. 2 is currently being processed completely imprecise. We have such records: slight impact, close range, small device, low power, low impact on the landscape. This could mean absolutely everything, which is why we proposed an amendment to explain at least what low impact means. We have proposed the upper value of the standard proposed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where in the eighth point it is stated: Protective standards should be established for long-term exposure to microwaves inside buildings in accordance with the precautionary principle not exceeding 0,6 V/m and in the future reduce this value to 0,2 V/m. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't make a mess. Why do you want to leave or keep a mess in telecommunication companies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's clean up first, and then we'll increase. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u421	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. In - 53, against - 366, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. 16a applicants propose to add paragraph. 4a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 180, against - 235, stopped 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete amendment 11. Amendments 18 to 20 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 21. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 3 and 18 to 20, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. Za - 186, against - 230, holding down 6. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the inserted article. 29h. 3 applicants propose the new wording of point 7. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For -415, against -7, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 30 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1c. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 420, against - 2, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 6 and 7 were tabled to Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Public Roads Act. In the 6th amendment to the article. 40 applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 2b. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 188, against - 235, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose not to repeal the Article. 40f. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 181, against - 233, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 8 to 10 were tabled in Article. 5 draft amending act containing amendments to the Construction Law Act. In the 8th amendment to the article. 3 applicants propose the new wording of points 3a and 5. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to reject another very imprecise amendment. The record of temporary mobile base stations is inaccurate and does not specify how long base stations may be established. In the World Youth Day Specialist, this was very precise, and here too it had to be precisely defined, for example, 14 days after the mass event ended. With this amendment, the temporary base station can stand for up to 10 years. This is unacceptable. I ask you to reject this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u423	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 379, against - 35, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 29 applicants propose e.g. add point 20aa in paragraph. 1 and the new wording of point 15 of paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 397, against -28, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to add point 9 to Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For -421, against -3, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 11 to 13 were tabled in Article. 8 draft law amending amendments to the Environmental Law. In the 11th amendment to the article. Paragraph 122. 1 applicants propose a new wording of the joint part. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -402, against -6, halted 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 124 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u424	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This amendment is quite important because of our private property. We have private property guaranteed in the Constitution, and if we do not accept this amendment, BTS stations will be set up and it will not be taken into account that this might affect our real estate, on which we can build a home in the future. So there's gonna be a BTS station that's gonna threaten our health and our lives. The courts are now taking this into account. Why do you want to help telecom companies build BTS stations that will be harmful to our future real estate? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u425	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 58, against - 366, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 416, against -4, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 14 and 15 were tabled in Article. 11 draft law amending amendments to the telecoms law. In the 14th amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 1 59 and paragraph 59. Article 4 61. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 172, against - 232, stopped 24. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 123 applicants propose to repeal paragraph. 2e. Amendment 17 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 15 and 17, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Za - 261, against - 160, with a hold of 7. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 16th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 13 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we do not accept this amendment, it may turn out that some spas will no longer be spas, because there will be telecommunications masts and standards associated with the status of the spa will not be met. In my opinion, we should have fiber optics in the spas, and it should be such white spots where people who are sensitive to electromagnetic radiation could move and live there. We've got about 3%. a society that is sensitive to electromagnetic radiation. That's what it sounds like: 3%, but it's about 1 million people who suffer all the time, get sick and feel bad about it. We should at least build for them 45 places where they can move and live a decent life. Please support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u427	Let me remind you that this is the mode of questioning. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 53, against - 375, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 38 point 3 of the draft amending act propose to amend the provisions on entry into force. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Marek Jakubiak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! Minister, I have a question for you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's for you too. Are you really convinced that installing 5G networks will have no negative impact on the lives of our children and on the lives of our children? [[Voice from the room: No.]] You're a young person. Are you really all convinced together that the frequency and power of these devices will not cause what everyone around you is talking about? The frequency that affects microwave ovens is harmful. If at the moment we sign with such joy and introduce every few hundred meters of transmitter into Poland, I ask where we will live. People, think about it. Don't smile so much. [[Voice from the room: He's wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u429	Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Mrs. Wanda Buk answers questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Truism seems to be the statement that the Member of the Polish Parliament, in carrying out his duties, will carry them out reliably and with due care. I don't know what your question had to do with... [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] May I? I don't know what your question had to do with the bill we're investigating... [[Voice from the room: hello, hello.]] ...and the change we've proposed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're talking to a Member.]] I just wanted to explain to you that if [[♪ The bell ♪]] We think the fifth generation network can be harmful, so we have to say that the 4G, 3G, 2G, 1G networks... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...which have been in operation since 1992 and which we use [[Applause]] they are harmful and we must accept that fact. This is absurd, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Wanda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u431	Let me remind you, the committee is asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 21st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 405, against - 2, with a hold of 7. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Member Robert Majk, near the Confederation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question, like on the committee, if you're sure... [[Voice from the room: Into the microphone.]] And you guarantee that 5G technology doesn't harm a woman's life and health and human fetus? [[Voice from the room: That's okay.]] Please answer me. I propose formally that you vote on this law by name. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Every vote is registered.]] This is a formal conclusion. You take responsibility for this bill. On behalf of the Confederation, I declare that we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[How many of you are there?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u433	Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this law is quite controversial, but it must be acknowledged that the main objective of the project is to increase the access of citizens and entrepreneurs to modern telecommunications services. Anyone who voted against would be against us having autonomous cars in a moment so that we could do distance operations using high speed. So it would be hard to be against it. [[That's right.]] This law, as well as the 5G network, will eliminate white spots in Poland, and therefore in rural areas in particular will be more extensive. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that we have been chosen by people not because we are the smartest people in the world. People trusted us, and we're supposed to represent them in Parliament. What happened yesterday in the committee when the social side was not allowed to speak when Members were not allowed to speak when the Office of Electronic Communications had limited time to speak... Don't count on us, we won't touch it. That is why Kukiz15 will abstain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u435	Thank you very much. Mr Majka's application cannot be regarded as a formal application, although it is in paragraph 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 184 Request to change the way the vote is carried out, paragraph 9, but every vote we vote is registered. [[Applause]] if it is carried out by an electronic system. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3545 with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 375, against - 21, 26 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Supporting the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3570-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Antoni Duda to present this report. [[A. Duda, Andrzej Duda?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and some other laws in print No 3542. At the second reading of the law, one frame was reported at this meeting of the Sejm on 3 July. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development met this morning and considered this amendment. The committee's report is in print 3570-A. The Commission recommends adopting the amendment and adopting the law together with the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u437	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's a 3570 print. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for the bill to be passed. The amendment tabled by the committee in the additional report will be voted first. In the amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 43 Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 399, against - 3, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 3570 with the amendment adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 391, against - 2, the 21. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and some other laws. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print 3553-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission at its meeting on 3 July considered four amendments tabled at the second reading of the Act amending the Act on auditors, audit firms and public oversight and certain other laws. All amendments were accepted by the High Committee. I recommend that the High House adopt four amendments and the entire draft law together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u439	Thank you, sir. I would like to remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft law from print 3553. The amendments tabled by the committee in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight. In the first amendment to Article. 94c applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 270, against - 135, with 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 94h new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 248, against - 136, 20 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 266, against - 129, halted 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 4a in the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 258, against - 132, the 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The whole bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print #3553, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. The cat's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 251, against - 12, holding 150. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on government drafts of laws amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3557-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on government drafts amending the Act on Goods and Services Tax and some other acts in print Nos 3499 and 3500. The Sejm shall have 83rd meeting on 3 July 2019 in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3557 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Public Finance Commission, having considered the amendments at its meeting on 4 July 2019, requests the High Sejm to adopt the bill together with the amendments. Nine amendments were tabled, all adopted by the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u441	Thank you, sir. Remind me, it's a 3557 print. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the first amendment to Article. 99 applicants propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 7c. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -413, against -2, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 112b applicants shall propose a different wording to the added paragraph. 2a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -417, against -1, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 118. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 421, no one voted against, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The excise duty Act of the applicant proposes a new wording of point 11. This amendment is linked to the 8th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is adopting Amendments 4 and 8, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For -423, no one against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 5 to 7 were tabled in Article. 11 draft amending act. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a different wording of point 12. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraphs 2 to 4 and add paragraph. 2a. Amendments 7 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 6, 7 and 9, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -426, no one against, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. We vote as follows. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3557 along with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 428, 1 against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion. The additional report shall be in print No 3577-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three amendments were tabled during the second reading of the government draft law amending certain laws to reduce payment congestion. At the joint meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on 4 July this year, these amendments were discussed. As a result of the vote, all amendments were rejected. On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend that the High House reject these amendments and adopt a report in which we recommend Print Act 3577-A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u443	Please. Let me remind you, it's a 3577 print. In an additional report, the committees have tabled amendments on which we will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 10 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on payment dates in commercial transactions. In the first amendment to Article. 10 of the draft law, the applicants propose a new wording of point 8. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. The question is asked by Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're not just investigating the bill of payment congestion. I would like to point out that, in parallel, the Polish Parliament is proceeding to amend the Code of Civil Procedure and in these changes, the most important thing at the request of the Ministry of Ziobra is a drastic increase in judicial costs. This drastic increase in court costs will cause Poles to have high costs of investigating their own money and investigating small amounts or perhaps the average amounts will simply not be worthwhile. We therefore make an amendment in which compensation for Polish entrepreneurs' own money will be realistic, i.e. one that will compensate for the drastic increases proposed by the Ministry of Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u445	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 190, against - 222, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose that point 8 should be deleted. c. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 181, against - 234, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to delete the following Article in point 12. 13f. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 185, against - 232, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to point 12 to make a different wording of Article. 13i. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. The question is the task of Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The wording of the article we have amended so far. 13i says that with payment congestion, which means when there are parties to a commercial transaction, someone stops paying, so the official will be able to control. But this record of the article. 13i says that the official will be able to control not only the parties to this commercial transaction, but any economic operator. In this way, it is a gateway to huge abuses, to the introduction of control of innocent entrepreneurs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u447	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 185, against - 229, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 12 to give a new wording to the article. 13t. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 185, against - 230, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to point 12 of Article. 13v in the mouth. Point 3 (1). The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For - 189, against - 234, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to point 12 to give a new wording to point 2 of Article. 13v in the mouth. 3. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. Za-192, against- 229, holding off on two. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 12 to give a new wording to the paragraph. Article 4 13v. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 191, against - 229, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to point 12 to make a different wording of the Article. 13y. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This amendment is intended to return to normality. Here's the situation when the clerk makes a mistake. and will impose a bad punishment on the Polish entrepreneur, and this entrepreneur will be brought before the court of his rights years later, and this penalty is to be returned. In a normal situation, also in the Tax Order, such money is returned with interest. You are introducing the law which will be of those percentage of the Polish entrepreneur to rob. After years, the Pole will receive less money, his money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u449	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 189, against - 230, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question, Mr Urbaniak asks Mr Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a project with a beautiful name about reducing payment congestion, and in the middle of the baton on Polish entrepreneurs. It is a law that harms Polish entrepreneurs and the Polish economy. That is why you are the government of PiS, not the government of Poland, that you represent the interests of PiS, not Poles and Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Who's saying this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u451	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that questions concerning this point should be asked. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 3577, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 256, against - 167, with 4. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws to limit payment congestion. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws. Third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3555-A. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u452	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. Nine amendments were tabled to the bill yesterday during the second reading of the bill. The joint committees held today and, after considering all nine amendments, recommend that the High House reject all nine amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u453	Thank you. We will vote first on the proposals of minorities and the amendments presented in the committee's report. I would like to inform you that minority 9 and 15 applications have been withdrawn. Minority requests from 1 to 8 and amendments from 1 to 4 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Cleanliness and Order Law in municipalities. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 6a. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. For - 182, against - 217, holding down 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority proposal to Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 11 by adding a new amendment. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u454	Question to applicants: Would you agree that this law on maintaining order and cleanliness in municipalities actually determines the image of our country, the image of small homelands and the quality of life? It's a rhetorical question. We've sacrificed a lot of energy to make it as correct and modern as possible and to eliminate the gaps. Very narrowing and trivializing, I'm going to say that this bill stops at a state where containers are only on the sidewalks. Not by the sidewalks, by the sidewalks. On the sidewalks. In view of the above, in part of this change, we propose that we give up such a substandard and that it is generally about areas of public interest which, as we know, are not only communal, state and district areas, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But they're also private. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u455	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 187, against - 234, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority proposal to Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 applicants shall propose by adding a new amendment to point 11a. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u456	Do you agree... [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: We won't agree.]] ...that unscored, unscored areas - will this be roads-related areas, or will this be private areas, where someone has just left challahs and chaos - are they changing the state of order and cleanliness? Every chief knows it, and you don't. As we propose a reasonable law that Poland should not be bushed or sideways of roads - covered with grass so far, so that it is impossible to leave the corner, you say: no. It's a reasonable, logical change that hits the statutory gap. It's a small thing: unsatisfied grass, undisturbed bushes, and sometimes it determines human life. You don't know that, and the Chief knows that. [[Applause]] [[And the Platform presidents don't know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u457	The Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk, asks for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order not to get the wrong impression that we are against mowing the side of the road: mowing the side of the road and maintaining the roads are governed by completely different regulations, not this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] [[Voice from the room: You haven't read...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u459	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the third minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 188, against - 231, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2a applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u460	First of all, Minister, the Roads Act doesn't regulate that. You said it wasn't true. I'm sorry about that. Please read the article carefully. Article 20, point 16 and Article 20 20f Road Act. You'll see it's like I said. The municipalities in relation to the multiple situations want this directory in the regulation to be able to set the rules not from - to, but so that this directory will not be closed. That's what self-government is all about, because life is too rich. Please understand that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u461	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 4th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 189, against - 228, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2a applicants propose a new wording of point 1. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u462	We're in an area of inalienable commune power. Order and purity in the commune are her tasks, waste is her property. That's the state of things. Therefore, since we want to oblige citizens to separate waste, which is supposed to be the purpose of this law, we propose that the municipality should be able to define quality requirements, to determine what is or is not listed waste, i.e. mixed waste, in short, waste, which will be charged a fee of 2 and 4 times higher. That is the purpose of this amendment. Especially since the Minister promised to issue an appropriate regulation to determine it, but he did not. So we shake hands and give them the opportunity to get out of the situation with honor. Why wouldn't you want to do that if you're committed to it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it going to issue a regulation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u463	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 5th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 188, against - 233, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2a applicants propose to add point 2a. Mr Wilczyński asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u464	Just as mentality stopped on the basket on the sidewalk, so in this case it stopped focusing on the fact that there were containers or bags on the property. Yeah, they're supposed to be, but first, for all of this to make sense, there's got to be a place where the waste is collected. This place must, as we suggest, be designated, equipped, maintained in appropriate technical condition. So first a place, something to collect these bags that you take care of, and then take care of the bags and containers. I mean, it's as obvious as building a sissy. That's what cleanliness and order depend on, and keeping clean. You don't want to accept this. First this and then other things. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Rysiek, stay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u465	Minister Kowalczyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! Very short. As for the amendment which would authorise the municipalities to designate a place to maintain the basket, a bag on the property, it is not the competence of the municipality, it is enshrined in the Construction Law. That's not enough. Each lot has a designated place. The land development plan provides a place to collect waste, basket or sacks. Therefore, the resolution of the municipality council could only be contrary to this prior appointment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u467	Thank you, Minister. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 6th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 172, against - 245, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 by adding a new amendment, the applicants propose a new wording for the calculation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u468	If we want citizens to sort out waste, we need to make it clear to them. This amendment is absolutely obvious. In the original version, it is said that citizens ensure cleanliness and order in municipalities. It is so weak how weak was your assurance that Antoni Macierewicz would not become Minister of Defense. He stayed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Come on, man, stop it.]] That is why we, when we meet you and, at the same time, respect citizens, if we want something from them, we clearly communicate it to them, we say this: Property owners carry out the following obligations of maintaining cleanliness and order. It's supposed to be an editorial change, but it's informative and it's about respect for the citizen, so that he knows clearly what you want him to do, and in this case, what the community wants him to do. Why don't you want to accept the obvious? [[Applause]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u469	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 170, against - 232, with a hold of 14. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. Mr Wilczyński asks a question. [[Voice from the room: Stay there.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no, mercy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u470	Nice to meet you! I return to the thread of these waste collection points. We're already here on a citizen's duty. What's the landlord gonna do? I was talking about first the waste collection point, the device, the designation, etc. [[Richard, you've already convinced me. I'll be there.]] The Minister is absolutely wrong about the building law. These things are usually inconclusive. Shambo, yes, but where will the waste container be? Minister, if you'll excuse me. 91 years ago, Sławoy Składkowski became history by proposing a new standard of civilization of Sławojka. Perhaps these points, waste collection sites standardized by municipalities over time will be called Matthews or Krzyśki. Why are you giving up the possibility of history? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u471	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 7th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 180, against - 239, holding down 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment to the article. 6c the applicant shall, by deleting the amendment, propose not to add paragraph. 2b and 2c. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 8th amendment. Mr Wilczyński asks a question. [[Applause]] [[They don't even understand you on the Platform.]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Voice from the room: Bis, bis.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u472	The government has an appointment with local governments... [[Voice from the room: Let him finish.]] ...at a joint committee meeting that a citizen, the owner of an undeveloped property, would be able to exclude himself from the municipal waste collection system. So? At the last minute, the owner of the property will be able to decide - not to disable himself, decide - whether to take away his municipality or whether to take away his businessman. Seemingly cool, only such changes are not made overnight and not yet effective since September. We can assume that over time, after years, the municipality will not receive waste at all, but will be involved in the organisation of the system, but not in such a way. Why is the Minister failing to comply with his commitments and misleading the local authorities by speaking on the joint committee? [[♪ The bell ♪]] government and self-government, how's it gonna look? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u473	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 187, against - 228, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 6j of the applicant, by adding a new amendment, propose to add paragraph. 3e. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 163, against - 225, with 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Rysiek.]] In the 8th minority proposal to Article. 6k paragraph. 2a applicants propose a new wording of point 5. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 8th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 184, against - 231, holding down 3. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th amendment to the article. 6ka applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. Mr Wilczyński asks a question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u474	Keeping the community clean and clean is really important. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Right.]] Even more important is to achieve the purpose of the bill, so that the waste stream turns into a stream of segregated waste that will be converted, but in a standardised way. The Minister is relinquishing, even though he has assumed it, even though he has promised it, before issuing an appropriate regulation, which will say what is segregated waste and what is not segregated waste. After all, waste streams do not know the boundaries of the municipality. You can't just leave it to the municipalities, because there's going to be a different standard in every municipality. Unfortunately, you will never have goods in the form of well-selected high-quality waste if you do not issue such a regulation. Why don't you want to do it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u475	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 182, against - 240, 1 held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 4 draft amending act containing amendments to the Road Traffic Law Act. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. Mr Wilczyński asks a question. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[What's the committee for?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u476	There's no jokes. This article. concerns the Road Traffic Law. It is about situations where the Minister of Infrastructure's contribution will lead to such perturbation in the industry, which can be described as chaos in the most delicate way. The legislator did not understand that it was not possible to impose a vehicle registration obligation on those who trade in vehicles within 30 days that these entities had to be turned off, as was done in France. There's a simple record for that, and I'd be happy to share it. The industry says if it comes into force, we're gonna have chaos. Why didn't you give up those records? Or he did not write it down unambiguously, having 24 hours to eliminate the problem, which is the possibility of imposing a penalty on Poland. We are not in favour of punishment for Poland. We're all in favour of you doing this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your job. Especially the Ministry... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u477	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 176, against - 229, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Minority requests from 10 to 13 and 6 have been tabled in Article. 6 draft amending act containing amendments to the Waste Act. In the 10th minority proposal to Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. Mr Wilczyński asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u478	I trust Mr Andrzej Maciejewski in the next minority proposal will loosen me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Generally speaking, the aim is to use the available modern technologies when sorting and waste treatment facilities. We propose solutions that are based on mechanical-biological segregation, which have stopped on technology from the 1990s of the last century introduced in Germany. Did you know that on such a line the standards associated with the occurrence of golden staphylococci may be exceeded 5,000. Once a man shouldn't go near such waste at all? What does Minister Emilewicz say about this, which is said to be from new technologies and entrepreneurship? I don't know if you've actually consulted anyone on this draft legislation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Minister of Health!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u479	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 10th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For -190, against - 231, holding off on 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th amendment to the article. 35 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 9. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 165, against - 256, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th minority application, applicants propose, by adding a new amendment, to maintain the new wording of Article. 38a. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u480	I am under the authority of Mr Wilczyński, of course. [[Joy in the Chamber]] High Izbo! For many years, local governments have been building waste management systems on their territory with great troubles and enormous effort. When these systems finally began to function, maybe not in a perfect way, but still function, you today want to degrade acts of local law, which are voivodeship waste management plans. You're gonna cause huge chaos. You're gonna make a mess you can't control. There may be a situation where tens and sometimes even hundreds of millions of zlotys will be deprived of the supply of waste. This system won't work. I'd like to ask the honourable House. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and I ask the PiS Members to accept this amendment so that there is no chaos. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u481	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 11th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 186, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a applicants propose a new wording of point 5. The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u482	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The fight against crime and the trash mafia is essential. [[Applause]] There's no doubt about it. [[Yes, sir.]] Minister! However, collective responsibility smells like an old system. Therefore, the minority proposals 12 and 13 by Kukiza15 are so that we do not introduce collective responsibilities in the group of capital groups. Unfortunately, it's kind of like the wedding club. If one member takes the CBA at night, it doesn't mean that everyone from the club is to disappear taken by the CBA. Unfortunately, it's on your project. [[We don't know. Depends on which club.]] You have introduced collective responsibility and this means that the capital groups involved in the municipal economy will be bankrupt. Attention, the mob works very simply. You take a swivel trailer, you bring trash, you leave it in the parking lot or in the woods and disappear and you don't have a company at all. They're the ones who really need a fight, not a company. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u483	Yes, sir. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 12th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 189, against - 232, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 13th. a minority proposal to the Article. 46 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1b. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the adoption of 13. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 179, against - 229, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. The 15th draft amending act shall propose that the applicant delete paragraph. 3. Mr Wilczyński asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u484	It's not a cliché. If the Ministry proposes that appropriate consent rights should be withdrawn after the project's lifetime, we are talking about EU funding here, then it is necessary to remind the Ministry that some installations for tens and hundreds of millions are built by municipalities and are built by community associations based on something called business plan. This business plan covers 20, 30 years and says that the Polish State has declared that it will provide the right conditions for functioning. And the Minister told us yesterday at the committee meeting that the project was to delete the alleged monopoly of RIPOK, a regional waste treatment facility. Minister, if the purpose of the bill is to overturn dozens or dozens of municipal companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or creating problems for them, thank you... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u485	Thank you very much. We're voting. Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th application, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 187, against - 230, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th amendment to the article. 28 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes a new wording of point 1. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, please raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 185, against - 236, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. The 28th Law amending the applicant proposes to add point 1a. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. Mr Robert Wilczyński, question. [[Voice from the room: Richard.]] Excuse me, Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since you have proposed a revolution in waste, a major change, because we are talking about a dozen percent of the property and about 30% of the volume of waste, first of all, property owners, second of all, local governments that have a serious problem here, and entrepreneurs who are supposed to benefit from it, give time to get over it. Thus, vacathio legis, which says that not on 1 September of this year, only on 1 January 2021. That's the law. Does that have to be taught? The normal thing is to give people time to make a change. This isn't about, it shouldn't be about some fake election gifts. And this bill in many elements is simply an electoral gift. Why don't you respect the state? [[♪ The bell ♪]] entities, stakeholders on the market? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u487	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 168, against - 250, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 28 of the draft amending act propose to add point 4. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform. [[There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This article really illustrates the philosophy of the PiS state. In 2018, an additional levy was introduced, recycling for plastic bags, to discourage Poles from using disposables, and Poles took care of it. One could say that the government should be happy because it has achieved its goal, or greater environmental awareness. But no, because the government has planned, according to this philosophy, to rob where it can and on every pretext, to plan for a billion 200 to the budget, and not to recycle those commercials. What's going on in this situation? If they don't want to use burners, we'll put this racket on re-use bags. And that's in this bill. I just have a question: What happens when the Poles are green? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the fat ones aren't gonna buy either? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u489	Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 172, against - 233, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The whole bill. The questions are asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u490	High Izbo! Given that we are dealing with a mirage of cost reduction for residents, a dubious electoral gift for owners of holiday homes and unbuilt properties, unfortunately a dubious gift for entrepreneurs, who, for the expansion of the market, are funded by the imbalance of costs and revenues, e.g. from these holiday homes - I'm not talking about the KP 1100 l container anymore, I leave it - since in fact you are endangering the environmental objectives of this law, since you want to turn the car industry, since you are funding a conflict of local governments - entrepreneurs, local governments - residents, since the only innovation here is composter, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No wonder we can't, and we shouldn't even vote for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u491	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is already the 19th approach and it will be the 20th, because this law does not solve the issue of extended producer responsibility, because it will continue to pay the consumer. So far, the consumer is covering all the costs. This bill doesn't touch the bail-back case for packaging, even though others do. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is such a lift. I don't know if you know this, but we're talking about trash, and the crowning point of most of our meeting on the committee was cars. I don't know, here's a note to the state, the ruling party: these cars can travel politically. Art. 4, if you don't push him off in the Senate, it's gonna be a paralysis of the car industry, and this bullshit is gonna be the number one of all sides of tabloids talking about paralysis in offices, registrations and some kind of legal bullshit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna have to accept today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u493	Thank you. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 3575, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 258, against - 142, the 26. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Benefits financed by public funds. The additional report shall be in print No 3591-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Publicly-funded Health Care Services, three amendments were tabled. At today's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, these amendments were considered. As a result of the vote, all three amendments were rejected by the committee. I recommend to the High House that the draft Print Act No 3591 be adopted without these amendments. This law in relation to the Polish tax system has a historical dimension, it will become history as the act of Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u495	Thank you, sir. I would like to remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of a draft print law No 3591. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act. In the first amendment to Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 148 added. Amendment 3 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission, I remind you, requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. Questions. Marta Golbik, Civic Platform Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u496	Ladies and gentlemen! This law has a historical dimension, but once again you share Poles. This time you share young people. Yesterday, when Prime Minister Morawiecki talked about zero PIT for young people until he was 26 years old, he forgot to mention that PiS had discretionaryly divided these Poles. Zero PITs will be available to people who are employed on the basis of employment contracts and contract orders, but not self-employed people who start an economic activity that creates jobs. 51,000. companies are run by persons between the ages of 20 and 24. How many start-ups do they assume... These people will not be covered by this exemption, so as you report zero PIT in your media, it is worth reminding that this is zero PIT for a group of young people, not for everyone. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u497	There's no question. Member of Genowef Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u498	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to government representatives, after all, the project is government. I would like to ask you why you exclude this law from exempting young people who conduct their own business, so it is important to say the most active and most entrepreneurial ones. And yesterday, Prime Minister Morawiecki, motivated by the introduction of this project, said he wanted to keep young people in the country. It's the entrepreneurial ones we don't care about anymore, they can leave. And please don't tell me that these little ones are relieved of the ZUS contribution, because there are small reliefs, and, as we all know, since the new year, there's a big 10% increase, to almost 1.5 thousand. zł. I would also like to say that without these amendments, this proposal violates the principle of equality before the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u499	Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Leszek Skiba will answer these doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This matter has already been discussed at the committee meeting. This is a law aimed at encouraging professional activity. Tax relief applies to persons employed on the basis of a contract of employment, contract of order, and a much better solution in terms of economic activity, it is already functioning, connected with the start-up of business and the reduction of the contribution to the Social Security Office. [[Voice from the room: But this is not a good solution.]] Young people who start a business can apply this relief, so you can say that it is better to loosen up in the ZUS contribution area than in the PIT area... We're talking about people who start a business. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u501	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For -190, against- 229, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 148 added. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Club Civic Platform, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Instead of implementing a higher tax-free amount which would be a high European level for all citizens, you are exempt from paying the tax by a narrow group of citizens. That's cool, but that's not what you promised your citizens during the 2015 campaign. Few of what we repeat, only some of this selected group will be able to benefit from this release. You support young people on the job, but those who already create jobs themselves will pay more. Minister, that's exactly what it looks like. Next year, the 10% increase in the ZUS contribution alone will amount to 1.5 thousand. PLN per year. Don't confuse us with this release, because it only applies in a short period of time to the relief that you grant to everyone on the board. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u503	There was no question. If there was no question, we vote. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 185, against - 230, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose after Article. 6 of the draft amending act add article. 6a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u504	The Union of Polish Metropolitans estimated the financial impact of the legislative changes that the State is introducing. I can't believe you don't know them by introducing further tax breaks. During the year - 890 million, Wrocław - 208 million, Katowice - 85 million, Gliwice is estimated at about 40 million. This is money that will not be in the budgets of individual cities. It's money that won't go to the locals. Money from which no crèches, kindergartens, local infrastructure will be created, because the state does not provide for compensation for local authorities. Once again, you are introducing a tax that is not agreed with local governments and which you do not want to compensate for. Therefore, if you want to play well with local governments, we suggest that we accept this amendment so that the local governments do not have to pay more of their money once again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For your ideas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u505	Mr Genowef Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u506	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Indeed, this law does not provide for compensation for loss of income for local government units. In fact, it reduces revenue by about PLN 2.5 billion. And this amendment, which we are making, we are simply introducing the application of this compensation, so to return this loss also to local governments, municipalities, powiats and voivodships. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u507	Thank you. Minister? And the question was addressed by the Member to whom? [[Voice from the gym, sir.]] [[The government!]] [[Voice from the room: To the Prime Minister.]] If you don't know who you're talking to, then who is it? You want me to ask? Mr. Member. And you can come forward with a question. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] With a question. There you go. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, question. [[Voice from the room: Questions or Answers?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The question to the government which is the applicant for this project is to present the calculations that have been included in the impact assessment. They clearly point out that local authorities, in terms of the increase in PIT and CIT tax revenues, become beneficiaries of PLN 15 billion with an increase in CIT revenue of PLN 28 billion for the state budget and PLN 11 billion for local governments. This means that this damage that can be planned here, with the benefits of 28 billion PLN for beneficiaries, i.e. young people up to the age of 26, is negligible, is insignificant. [[Voice from the room: But it is.]] Because if we count that every year local governments will gain PLN 15 billion in tax dollars, we have PLN 150 billion in additional income from PIT and CIT tax in local governments and PLN 11 billion in costs by local government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] within 10 years to make this benefit for 2.2 million young people before the age of 26. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u509	Thank you. Well, in fact, there's an answer to the question. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 189, against - 229, abstained - 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. There are questions in front of the whole thing. Mr Marta Golbik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u510	Ladies and gentlemen! Tax relief for young people is needed, which is why the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] But it's worth one thing to mark. May I have your attention, please? You've wasted two years without considering our bill. [[And you're eight years old.]] Two years ago we passed a law that did not exclude people because of the employment relationship, which did not exclude people because of their age, a law with much better solutions. And just because you didn't want to process it, young people haven't had that kind of relief in two years. It is worth considering, because it is hard to resist the impression that this law does not happen shortly before the elections. Because there is no other reason why our law, which is much better constructed, should not be considered. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] And we will vote in favour of this bill today, but we will have to correct it again in the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u511	Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From a slightly different optics, you decided to raise the tax-free amount for a group of citizens to 85,000. zł. That's good. We'll vote for it. However, since you had the courage to raise the amount to 85 thousand. PLN for a group of citizens, then also have the courage to raise for everyone to the lousy 30,000. PLN, which is as much as we as Members have tax-free amounts. [[That's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If this money stays in the pocket of the citizens, they will let the money into the market, into the economy, they will turn around, they will return in the form of different other taxes, and above all they will increase the level of freedom and freedom of citizens. So that's 85 grand. PLN - ok, and 30,000. We offer PLN for everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u513	Okay, then we proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] [[Voice from the room: It was good.]] Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3591 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For -419, against -4, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on personal income tax, the Law on family benefits and the Act on public-funded healthcare. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3563-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Materna to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the second reading of the bill, the Law and Justice Club submitted four amendments. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, after considering these amendments, recommends that the High House adopt all four amendments and the draft in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u515	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's a 3563 print. We are voting first on the amendments set out in the additional report. In the first amendment to Article. 116 Maritime Safety Act applicants propose to add paragraph 1. 4. Amendments 2 to 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments 1 to 4 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 300, against - 5, stopped 109. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Voting on the whole draft law. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 3563, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For -418, against -1, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Maritime Safety Act. We are returning to the review of item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in the years 2017-2020. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3567. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is this project about? This project concerns the extension of the Prison Service modernisation programme until 2026. Why are you prolonging this? Also because four years have been lost, and yet prison was to become a district... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Read it. Read it.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] I'm sorry. And yet prison, High Izbo, was to become the flagship of Patrick Jaki. [[Voices from the room: Aaaaaa...]] Patrick Jak - High Izbo, please do not disturb - he announced that the Polish prisons are waiting for a revolution. Yes, indeed, the Polish prison is facing a revolution. [[Voice from the room: It's a different committee.]] There are still 18-person targets in Bialystok. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Not this line.]] Prison Service officers strike and force the government to raise, but we are also dealing with an infrastructure situation. You haven't started. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In four years, no investment outside of... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u517	Thank you, sir. The Deputy Minister of Justice Michał Wójcik asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u518	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! You're a little messed up, aren't you? We know for a fact that there's an iron electorate of yours, [[Applause]] who has been voting for you for many years on the occasion of various elections... [[Voice from the room: Build for yourselves.]] We have nothing to be surprised about. That's the first thing. Second thing. The upgrade program you attacked... [[Voice from the room: I attacked.]] ...is after 1989 the first prison service programme. First. You didn't even think about it, we brought it in. Here's another thing. We've put in a program for prisoners. 80% Prisoners... [[Voice from the room: How many have you escaped?]] ...the ones who can work, the ones who work. This programme, which you are talking about, is a programme until 2020. We didn't prolong anything because you guys didn't come up with anything. This is our show. [[Applause]] I know you don't like uniforms. We're aware of that. However, I want to say very clearly that this is a program, which includes. finances 250 posts for Prison Service officers and civil servants who work in the electronic surveillance system, and 313 posts under a law that allows them to transport prisoners from Poland to other countries or from other countries to Poland. So your attack is completely, completely unfounded. This is based on one of the EU documents. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And uniformed services are protesting this to express their support for the PiS government.]] So that, sir, first of all, you have to read the documents if you speak. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u519	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 3567, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For -419, against -3, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in 2017-2020. We are returning to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3578. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! I don't want to be mean... [[Voice from the room: Don't be.]] ...but Minister Wójcik probably knows who wins in psychiatric hospitals. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But Mr. Wójcik is probably also watching too much news. High Izbo! This project concerns medical personnel. What can Polish viewers learn from the news of TVPiS? This is Christopher Earthling. The doctor's rails are becoming the past. Mr. Earthling was so ashamed of his stripes that he had now moved to Teleexpress. Mrs. Holecka. We're talking medical personnel. [[Voice from the room: It's not about the subject.]] We have a belt: wages grow like yeast. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether the High House knows what the lowest basic salary of a Polish nurse is. This is PLN 2496 gross. That's 15 zlotys an hour. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can you put these stripes on?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u521	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u522	That's what you're talking about in Polish... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u523	Thank you, sir. Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Deputy Minister for Health, would like to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u524	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, you should at this point apologize to all the sick people who are currently in the hospital. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You've compared sick people who suffer for all sorts of reasons, with bandits, with people who are in prison. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] This is unacceptable, sir. You should apologize to all patients immediately. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] [[Voices from the room: Apologize!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The current government has been implementing strategic measures for the recovery of the health situation for 3 years... [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] [[Voice from the room: Ha! Ha! Ha!]] We've been catching up on what you've been neglecting for many years. [[Applause]] It's what keeps us getting more and more nurses in the system. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] These are facts. $20,000. Nurses more than four years ago... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Who saw them?]] ... 30%. They make more money than when you were in charge. We've opened up more schools where nurses are trained. These are planned, strategic actions, which have been written down specifically for a few years. And every step of the way is implemented. It is a pity that such actions have not been taken in previous terms. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members chant: Apologize! Apologize! Apologize!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u525	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No. 3578, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[He was supposed to apologize.]] 425 Members voted. For -422, against -1, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives. We are returning to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy Affairs and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Energy Law. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 3501. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 3501, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 418, 1 against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Energy Law Act. We return to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. Third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3489. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Apologize! Apologize! Apologize!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u526	Mr. Marshal Kuchciński, because he's talking about the rules, he won't let me ask you a question twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u527	Mr President, ask a question about amendments to the Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u528	Yes. This change, Mr. Marshal, is very simple because it concerns the exclusion of a Member from the sitting. I understand that the future reflection has come, but it is quite late that, until the Member has filed an appeal, the Marshal of the Sejm may repeal his decision to exclude the Member from the sitting. I would also like to remind Mr Marshal that since June 2018 there has been criminal proceedings against you before the district court in Warsaw. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] It's not the first time you've exceeded your authority...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u529	Mr. President, you...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u530	...because art. § 231 § 1 k.k....
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u531	...doesn't ask a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u532	...the proceedings are suspended... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Don't be afraid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u533	...and you say no about it. I'm calling your attention for the second time in Art. 175. Mr Michael Szczerba ...because you're not asking for the waiver of your immunity to the Rules of Procedure... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] Mr President, unfortunately, I must take away your voice. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[The voice from the hall: What a shame.]] I draw your attention for the third time under Art. 175. I believe you are deliberately interfering with the Sejm's deliberations. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Is this fear?]] We're voting. [[Voice from the room: Apologize, apologize to Szczerba.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3489, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Financial punishment. 100,000 zlotys.]] 425 Members voted. For -422, against -1, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed the law, or rather adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018 together with the opinion of the Committee on State Control. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has adopted the report. I would like to remind you that the Commission for State Control recommends in its opinion rejecting the report submitted by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point we evaluate the work of over 1,500 employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber, including controllers. Ladies and gentlemen! This work has been recognised in all parliamentary committees. All the Sejm committees gave a positive opinion, except for one, the Commission for State Control. I would just like to remind you of the words of the President from a week ago: When NIK comes to control, everyone gets stiff because it is such an important control, reliable, to which one needs to refer in a very professional way. The highest standards are required and indeed the NIK and its controllers comply with the highest standards. That's what the president said. If you vote against the 2018 report, the Supreme Audit Chamber, you will have to apologise to your employees. [[Applause]] [[Shame. Shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u535	Let me remind you, we're in question mode. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the report contained in print 3366, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 228, against - 193, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the motion to reject the report. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Voting on the motion to reject the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration from the implementation in 2018 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (prints Nos 3352 and 3393). In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the report. The Commission, I remind you, requests that the report be adopted. The question is asked by Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration! I would like to ask if the law on the total ban on the sale of agricultural land to Polish farmers and foreigners introduced in 2016 fulfilled its task, since in 2015 foreigners acquired 412 hectares of agricultural and forestry land, in 2016, already under ban - 575 ha, in 2017. - almost 1300 ha and in 2018. - almost 1,000 ha. [[Voice from the room: Almost.]] This land was to be guarded by the National Agricultural Support Centre. I ask if he's guarding, since in 2018 he spent over 17.5 thousand. positive decisions regarding the acquisition of agricultural land by foreigners and only less than 300 negative decisions. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u537	Thank you. Minister Tułaev wants to speak, right? Deputy Minister of Interior and Administration Sylvester Tulaev. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u538	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, you are misleading the High House with false information. This information was provided during the debate on the report on the implementation of this law. In implementing the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2018, the Ministry issued 41 permits for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property with a total area of only 14 ha, so these are quite different values that you emphasized. You were just saying the wrong thing. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] [[Voice from the hall: Marcus, don't lie.]] [[Correct, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u539	In corrigendum mode. Time - 1 minute. Please. [[In corrigendum mode. And the rules say two.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Minister is actually using lying sociotechnics. I was talking about the acquisition of agricultural land by foreigners with and without permission. In 2016, following the entry into force of EU legislation on the prohibition of discrimination against citizens of the European Union, of course they do not require permission from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. [[So that doesn't apply to this bill.]] So, Minister, an instrument for agricultural land control was created by the National Agricultural Support Centre so that it could buy back the land that farmers put up for sale and not sell to foreigners. National Agricultural Support Centre in 17.5 thousand. cases did not block this sale, consented to the acquisition by foreigners, and only in less than 300 cases did not give this consent. And that's the truth about agricultural land and forest land. And you're manipulating. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Because it wasn't agricultural.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u541	Thank you. Thank you very much. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the request to reject the report in print No 3352, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 168, against - 246, with a hold of 8. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws (Prints No 3555 and 3588). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present this report. It's okay. Actually, you should introduce me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Some humming, humming. It's not... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Votes in normal hours, how Members do not do their job.]] It's not the call of the forest, it's the Sejm. Let's wait calmly. [[Voice from the room: Break.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Why would you take so much?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 13 June this year on the amendment of the Waste Act and certain other laws, introduced eight amendments to its text. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry has considered all these amendments and recommends that the first two be rejected and that all others be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u543	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate proposes language changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against Amendments 1 and 2, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 375, against - 41, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 3 and 4. The Senate is proposing editorial changes. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3 and 4, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. For -14, against - 386, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. Point 6 (4) of the Senate proposes to amend letter b. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -1, against -413, holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 9 The Senate proposes amendments to point 5. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. In - 1, against - 415, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 14 The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendment 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 22 The Senate proposes amendments to point 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 8th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws (Prints No 3554 and 3565). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications concerning the Senate resolution on amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws. The Commission, after today's meeting, recommends that all 16 amendments be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u545	It will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 13. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Civil Procedure Code Act. In the first amendment to Article. 103 The Senate proposes amendments to the joint section in § 3. We will consider this amendment in conjunction with amendments 4 to 8, 10, 12, 13 and 15. The Commission proposes that amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against these amendments, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For -2, against -387, halted 23. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 130 The Senate proposes a new wording § 1. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. No one voted against - 394, with 19. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes not to add an article to the Act. 130. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. [[But there was a question to that amendment.]] I'm sorry. I'm taking it back. There's a question. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u546	Thank you very much. [[The voice from the courtroom: What is it, marshal?]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Ziobra, whether he has now persuaded President Kaczyński to vote against this amendment, contrary to the recommendations of the Senate. This amendment fixes another legislative framework. This time Minister Ziobro wanted revenge on lawyers and legal advisers, but if this amendment does not pass, the Minister will de facto take revenge on the sides of the proceedings because he will impose penalties for a formal error of up to 200,000. zł. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Do you need that money to spend 200,000 again? $250,000 for the banquet. zł from the Justice Fund for catering? Or maybe, by cheating Prime Minister Morawiecki, on the day of his cancellation, he would be a proxy in your department for $20,000. A month's worth of zloty? Shame, shame, hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u547	The Deputy Minister of Justice, Łukasz Piebiak, asks for the floor. [[Voice from the courtroom: to the court!]] [[Mr. Minister, about the catering.]] Quiet, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: There were no 200,000. It's only $210,000.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] I don't know what Minister Ziobro was talking about with the president... [[Catering was yours, wasn't it?]] ...but I don't think that's the case. Indeed, the Ministry of Justice has been supporting the project since the beginning. The project has been revised in committee. This applies to the smooth conduct of the case. [[How are the courts doing?]] It can't be that you're making incorrect arguments about 200,000. Evil, because it's really... [[Voice from the Senate, Senate.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Another failure of the Ministry.]] This is actually an attempt to align professional attorneys, lawyers, legal counsels with parties. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: NSA Judgment.]] And it's not like that. The only function of this provision is to cheer up lawyers and lawyers so that they pay their fees correctly so that the proceedings can go smoothly. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Judgment of the TSUE.]] If you don't want it, you don't want it to be efficient. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: NSA sentence, shame.]] As far as the opposition is concerned, we're not surprised. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But don't use false arguments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's your theme.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u549	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Za - no one, against -422, abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Zero equals zero.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 5 to 0 this week.]] In the 9th amendment to the article. 424 The Senate proposes not to add § 4. We will consider this amendment together with Amendment 16. [[It was revenge.]] The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 9 and 16, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - no one, against - 402, stopped 17. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 458 The Senate proposes to delete § 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - no one, against - 408, the 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 14. The Senate reported it to the article. 4 the amending act containing amendments to the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. In this amendment to the article. 13b The Senate proposes to delete the reference to Article. 37 Law on spatial planning and development. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 14th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - no one, against - 417, stopped 6. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs (Print No 3596). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to speak on the proposal? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print 3596, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 363, against - 47, 7 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of a new personal composition of the Commission for European Union Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Appointment of a member of the Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate (Print No 3576). High Seym! In connection with the vacancy in the Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate, the Sejm will appoint a new member. A group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice has nominated Mr Viktor Klimiuk. I would ask Mr Kubov to speak in order to present his candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present Mr. Viktor Klimiuk's candidacy as a member of the reprivatization committee. Wiktor Klimiuk obtained a Master's degree in Legal Science and then a Doctor of Legal Sciences at the University of Warsaw. He lectured at the Academy of National Defence subjects related to public finances and management of state and local property. Currently he is a professor at the University of Warsaw, where he lectures subjects related to the finances of local government. In 2014 he obtained the title of lawyer. He gained experience in many Warsaw law firms and collaborated with local departments of the Warsaw government. He collaborated, among others. with real estate management departments in Bielany, Italy, Prague-North. Between 2014 and 2018, he was the councilman of the Białołęka district, the head of the housing committee and the chairman of the council. He is currently a councilman of the M.S. Warsaw. Since 2016, he has also worked as an advisor in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr.Wiktor Klimiuk is a good candidate for a member of the Commission for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u551	Thank you. Would any of you like to take the floor on your candidacy? No one's checking in. Let's move on to the vote. Sejm, based on art. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appoints a member of the Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the appointment of Mr Viktor Klimiuk as a member of the Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. The absolute majority is 195. For - 251, against - 132, holding down 5. The Sejm has appointed Mr Viktor Klimiuk as a member of the committee. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 3597). Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would anyone like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print 3597, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. For - 390, against -1 stopped 5. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 83rd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 26 hours 22 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement, add yourself to the list? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. I cordially invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u552	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I would like to refer to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, on behalf of the farmers from Suwałszczyzna and Podlasie Voivodeship. This concerns the implementation of the rural plan. Prime Minister! Even a year ago, at the start of the election campaign before the local elections, you presented a comprehensive programme for farmers, the so-called "Kujawsko-Pomorskie" in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, at a meeting with farmers in Głogów. The village plan. Thanks to this plan the Polish countryside and agriculture were to become a locomotive of Poland's development. This plan included eight points and was available, among others. on the KRM website. As a Member from the region typically agricultural, which is Podlaskie voivodship, Suwałszczyzna, I receive more and more signals at numerous meetings with the voters who live from agriculture, that this plan was unfortunately only part of the pre-election promises. In particular, this concerns the most important issues in terms of the safety of agricultural producers, e.g. the stabilisation of agricultural markets involving farmers, as well as the comprehensive and systemic prevention of natural disasters such as droughts and floods. The first objective was to be achieved by the national food holding company, and the second was to be a special programme which increased among others. water retention. This year, after spring flooding, farmers are fighting the effects of no rainfall again. Support schemes for traditional and regional organic farming and the development of renewable energy installations in agricultural holdings were to be introduced. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister to answer the following questions which are asked by the agricultural community. When will the activity of the national food holding company of the Polish Food Group begin and to what extent will it offer support to agricultural producers? What budget will it have, and how will it be financed? What share will farmers have in it? What measures have been taken by the competent minister to prevent the effects of flooding and drought, including by water retention? What resources have been earmarked for this purpose? What new schemes put in place following the announcement of the rural plan for organic and traditional farming support schemes can Polish farmers benefit from? Finally, what actions have been carried out as part of the implementation of the remaining points of the rural plan? Please, please, on behalf of all farmers and agricultural producers of the Podlaskie Voivodship, Suwałszczyzna, please take a position. But it is also an appeal of all farmers from our country who are waiting for the implementation of the plan for the Polish village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u553	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you to make a statement by Maria Nowak, Law and Justice. Member, we are all waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u554	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted an amendment to the Act on the National Celebration of the 100th Anniversary of regaining independence by Poland, extending the period of commemoration of this epochous event in the history of our nation until 2022. As a Member from Upper Silesia, I thank the High House for this amendment, which will allow the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the return of Upper Silesia to its mother in 1922. The inhabitants of Upper Silesia want to solemnly celebrate their next important anniversaries, that is the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Uprising and the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite, but above all - joining the part of Upper Silesia to the brightest of the Republic of Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year marks the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First Silesian Uprising, the first in a series of three raids of the Upper Silesian people, which led to the fact that during the interwar period a significant part of Upper Silesia was located within the borders of the Republic of Poland. And the Silesian Uprising, which broke out on 16 August 1919 and lasted only until 24 August of that year, was the most spontaneous of the Silesian Uprisings. It was a reaction to repression by the German authorities of that time, but above all a manifestation of the desire of the Silesian people to join Upper Silesia to the reborn Polish country. Three more years had to wait for that dream to come true. There were still many sacrifices and donations of blood, so that in 1922 part of Upper Silesia would be within the borders of the Republic of Poland. How did it happen that the inhabitants of Upper Silesia, who had been outside Poland for centuries, kept this dream of living in a common country? The common tradition, common faith and common language, Catholic faith, which brought us together, Poles from the Republic of Poland, and after its fall - with Poles living in Austrian or Russian partitions, the tradition which referred to Catholic faith and referred to the Old Polish language, which still preserved many of these archaisms of Polish language. Now there are people and organizations who are trying to relativize the history of the Silesian Uprisings and rewrite it. They try to sacrifice our ancestors in opposition to Poland both in the interwar and contemporary period. Starting with the celebration of the 100th anniversary of subsequent uprisings, we must restore collective memory both among the inhabitants of Upper Silesia and residents of other regions of Poland the historical truth about events that took place in Upper Silesia, and about their impact on the shape of the Second Republic of Poland. We owe it to those who spilled their blood years ago to keep Upper Silesia within Poland, we owe it to all present inhabitants of Silesia and also to all Poles. Greater knowledge of the history, tradition and culture of this region will help to better understand the current situation. The first, but I hope, not the only strong accent of this dissemination of knowledge about Silesia can be the unveiling of the monument of Wojciech Korfanty in Warsaw from the funds of the state budget. I hope that in the next three years we will take many other initiatives that will commemorate these historical events and the people who created these events. Thank you from this place, Minister Sellin, who assured today that there will be financial resources to commemorate these very important events for our homeland and Silesia. It is certainly optimistic that these events will allow for historical education of the inhabitants of Silesia, especially here I mean young people and our homeland, which will allow - once again - for a better understanding of the tradition and history of this land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u555	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mariusz Orion Jędryska, Law and Justice. There isn't. In that case, I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u556	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I like to be with people, I like to talk to them, explain my position, translate and, above all, listen. My caller is an inspiration for me, a mine of knowledge and ideas, an answer to almost all my questions. Watching people, their reactions and behaviours is a job that constantly allows me to draw conclusions and develop world views. I participate in various projects and meetings. The ones that I remember recently were connected with the celebrations that were organized or attended by firefighters, especially from the volunteer fire department. I've been involved with the volunteer fire department forever. In 2009, I was awarded with a brown badge "Deserved for fire protection." I'm proud of her. The badge reminds me of the assumptions and objectives of the voluntary fire department, reminds me that the bridesmaids are acting to protect life, health and property from fires, natural disasters, environmental hazards or other threats of interest. The bridesmaids serve our homeland, working to protect the environment. They promote physical culture, they distribute sports. They educate in the field of fire and defence. Today, we can observe the effects of hard, but grand work that resulted in young people joining the voluntary fire brigade. They are happy to participate in fire competitions, competitions and safety workshops, playing in fire-fighting wind orchestras. For the glory of God, for the benefit of men, these words are the main motto and are the most important goal of every fellow servant serving in the ranks of the voluntary fire brigade. A friend who actively dedicates himself to helping others, who, wearing his navy uniform, goes on call, often risking his own life and health in order to save someone's life and health. When it comes to saving one's neighbor, religion, skin color, or political option are no longer important. TSOs are the best example for the continuity of selfless action, which is proof of the willingness to work jointly and severally for the benefit of another person. The CSR proves every day that there are people among us, for whom the idea is important, who believe in the nobleness of actions, for which honor, homeland, help is not empty passwords, but a way of life. Let's take the example of self - sacrificing fellows, follow their motto in life. Let their honest conduct be an example to all of us for life. I want to firmly believe that believing in the idea of TSOs will not be in vain, that it will serve the next generations of young Poles who will replicate proven patterns. I'm going to tell you more, I hope that the socialist attitude of our friends will shift to all areas of our lives, remain in this commercial one, focused only on the consumption of the world. Let's support the voluntary firefighters. I ask the local authorities to fund their community centres so that they don't forget the brave volunteers, because they don't forget us in need, during fires, floods, in crisis situations. Let's be together. I pay tribute to all firefighters who died tragically and, above all, to Paweł Komorowski's friend, the commander of the voluntary fire brigade from Orzeszkowo in the municipality of Hajnówka, who died during the road accident on 28 June 2019 and his funeral took place on 3 July. May he rest in peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u557	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u558	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What has been happening recently, and specifically since July 1st, has led me to say a few words about a disease in which children, which we call baby butterflies, suffer very much and have been deprived of funding for dressings. Maybe I'll start over. EB is a disease consisting of blistering separation of the epidermis. Bubbles are actually caused by a touch. The child is born and the disease is genetically conditioned. These genes are already known, there are a lot of them, therefore there are dozens of forms of this disease depending on what gene it is and what factor is missing, what protein the genetic deviant is about: keratin, pectin, laminine, collagen. Skin disease is often accompanied by deafness, blindness, atresia of the duodenum puppet or hypoplasia of other organs. The worst thing for those children who suffer from actually opening their eyes in the morning until closing them in the evening is skin damage, bursting blisters. Mothers must pierce or break through these blisters spontaneously. The only proper treatment in terms of care is, in fact, only symptomatic treatment, the use of modern, selected for a given type of dressing disease. These bandages are very expensive. In 2015, monthly treatment of the child cost 372 PLN, by the end of June of this year as many as 4 thousand, and now the cost in connection with the photo from the refund list from 1 July is 10 and 12 thousand. depending, of course, on how big the child is and how large the skin must be covered. There is a causal treatment, which is an experimental treatment for the time being. Namely Professor McGrath in Austria transplants stem cells with the missing gene, the already corrected one, and it offers a chance to heal. Similar trials are carried out in the United States. But at the moment, I, on behalf of these children, their parents, ladies and gentlemen... I know how a child suffers from cancer pain, it's temporary pain. The moment we cure the baby, there's no pain. We can fight this pain with non-drugs, narcotics, but such a child for the rest of his life will suffer for the rest of his life. And that's it, I guess. Oh, I haven't said a very important thing yet, namely, these children are in Poland 200. This is not the number of children in which the Polish state cannot afford to be 100% Refund these dressings. Once again on behalf of parents and children, please help the butterfly children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u559	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you to make a statement by Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u560	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Holidays have begun. It's a time of rest and joy. The end of the school year is one of the greatest days for the school community. Especially for children and young people. Graduation is a summary time. The year worked was certainly filled with success, but also with problems and problems. It's a school day. Teachers, educators, young people, children and parents worked together to make it a successful year. Work, commitment and understanding have produced excellent results and educational achievements. School is a place close to my heart. As a longtime teacher and principal of the school, I know the difficulties and difficulties of education every day. At the same time, I know that thanks to the changes introduced by the government and the Ministry of Education and Science, the Polish school is back on track. On the occasion of the graduation of the school year, I attended many celebrations related to this day in the schools of my district. In addition to the wishes of wonderful, sunny and successful holidays, I emphasized and wished everyone safe rest. During the holiday period, during a period of carelessness and fun, it often happens that both children, young people and, unfortunately, adults forget about the dangers. Every day the media reports drownings, accidents, fires and disappearances. Children and young people are mostly affected. It is very important that each of us, regardless of our age, keep common sense during the holidays and remember the dangers. As a result, you can avoid many family tragedies and happily return home, to study, to work. Only requests for consideration and compliance with the basic principles of water safety, in the mountains, in the woods or on the road are not as effective as preventive measures. Therefore, during the holiday period, I planned and run an information campaign on safe holidays. I've been involved in the joint work of security services: guards, police, medical rescue services, etc. All the services responded positively to my appeal. They'll support the action. Together, we will try to reach as many people as possible to warn, explain and prevent dangerous events as possible. I will lead the action in Ciechanów, Mława, Żuromina and other places in my region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u561	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you to make a statement by Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u562	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that recently some of the most important values for the vast majority of Poles, such as family, marriage and parenthood, become so-called becomes a great concern. modern celebrities of worldview are in the arena of provocative clashes to gain publicity. It is clear that within a democratic society, any minority can express their views. Nevertheless, more and more often in public life, we are experiencing attempts to impose a specific dictatorship of minorities, which aggressively and without an elementary cultural framework and an acceptable form of debate tries to force its own views in the name of misunderstood tolerance and freedom of speech. Fighting for allegedly unobserved rights of certain groups, the vast majority of Poles try to deny the right to express their own opinion freely, raising the slogan known from the Polish People's Republic that faith or belief in the world view is only a private matter, or worse, mocking the most important values and symbols for most Poles. The question arises: How can we find ourselves in such a reality? The answer is simple: we have to react. It welcomes the fact that this is seen by an increasing number of local authorities, adopting the Local Charter of Family Rights, guaranteeing the protection of the rights granted to families by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. At the moment, 11 local governments have accepted this card, and yet more are willing to do so. Only by reacting decisively to aggressive attempts to introduce a moral revolution in our country can we defend these most beautiful values, such as love, family, home, happy childhood, motherhood and fatherhood. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u563	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you to make a statement by Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to make a statement on the 20th anniversary of Władysław Hasior's death. 20 years after Władysław Hasior's death, it is worth mentioning this one of the most outstanding Polish artists of the 20th century, and according to many - the forerunner of the world pop-art, to say a few words about his achievements. He was born on 14 May 1928 in Nowy Sącz. Between 1947 and 1952 he studied at the State High School of Plastic Techniques in Zakopane under Professor Antoni Kenar, and then in 1952 he studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw under the supervision of Prof. Marian Wnuk. In 1959, he received a scholarship from the French Minister of Culture. He studied at Ossip Zadkine's sculptor's studio in Paris. Since 1957 he has exhibited individually and participated in collective exhibitions in Poland and abroad, among others. in Paris, Rome, Stockholm, Oslo, Montevideo, Säo Paulo, Helsinki, Vienna, Valencia, Copenhagen, Brussels and Moscow. During his studies, he engaged in youth work at the Zakopane State High School of Plastic Techniques and taught from now until 1968. Since 1959, he has participated in all the exhibitions of the Zakopane Artists District and in the actions of the Artists Grouped at the State High School of Plastic Techniques. He was the founder of the Pegasus Gallery, participated in the artistic life of the city, initiated many cultural events of a national character. He was the President of the Association of Polish Plastic Artists in Zakopane, as well as lectured at the State Higher School of Plastic Arts in Wrocław. He worked creatively all the time, exhibited his works throughout Poland and abroad. His works were represented at more than 80 individual exhibitions in Poland, he also gained great appreciation of critics around the world, and his exhibitions were organized by the most important cultural institutes in Europe and the world. Hasior was one of the most outstanding and original Polish contemporary artists. In his works, the material of which was various materials, ordinary objects took on new meanings. He created banners, imaginative portraits, original paintings containing a whole range of references to reality or artistic traditions. All the works were presented by the author with interesting titles, which often completed the pronunciation of the works themselves, creating hints and giving room for wide interpretations. He was also the inventor and author of many unusual artistic actions, such as the outdoor flag show in Łącek or the spectacle of the burning banners in Nowy Sącz in 1988 and 1992. He created many provocative and unconventional outdoor monuments and sculptures in many places around the world. These include: Mountain rescuers and Prometheus shot in Zakopane, a famous unrealized monument project for hostages shot in Nowy Sącz or finally Golgota in Montevideo. In his projects he broke the circular sculpture conventions, applied surprising formal solutions. An example of this is his invented technique of casting in the ground, using elements of fire and water, and even sound. His work has aroused great interest. She's been given a lot of articles and reviews. Books were written about her, master's work. A number of documentary films and television programs devoted to the artist's silhouette were filmed. For his work he was awarded with many awards, among others. the prize of the Polish Culture Foundation, and in 1999 The Academy of Fine Arts in Gdansk awarded him, unfortunately after death, the title of doctor of honoris causa. Władysław Hasior died on 14 July 1999 in Kraków. His works are currently in many Polish and European museums, among others. in Cracow, Warsaw, Łódź, Poznań, Szczecin, Wrocław, Lublin, Helsinki, Paris, Stockholm, Oslo, Säo Paulo, Rome, Milan, Amsterdam and Moscow. The second largest collection of works of Hasior has the Artistic Exhibition Office in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Many works are also found in private collections. In Nowy Sącz in the church of St. St. Kazimierz can be seen on the original cross road, one of his first works. The collection of works by Władysław Hasior also looks after the Regional Museum in Nowy Sącz, which is worth a look at when visiting the Sądecczyn, which I encourage you to do. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u565	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u566	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the days were fulfilled and it came to die in the summer, four soldiers from Westerplatte walked straight to heaven. Many of you may remember these verses from Konstanty Ildefons Gałczyński's poem about soldiers from Westerplatte. Perhaps according to contemporary style it sounds infantile or unmodern, it does not change the fact that these verses penetrated the collective consciousness of Poles and allowed to perpetuate the myth about soldiers from Westerplatte and their heroic attitude in the first days of World War II. Today we know more about those days, we know the various fates of the formal or actual commanders of the defence squad in the port of Gdansk - Major. Henry Sucharski and Capt. Franciszek Dąbrowski. We remember the historical, archival broadcasts of the Polish Radio, which during the first September days broadcasted a message: Westerplatte still fights, thus encouraging the frightened nation, because it was a miracle that such a fragile unit resists attacks several times the enemy's number. They fought as long as they could. In recognition of General Eberhardt in charge of the German attack, he allowed Sucharski to keep an officer's sword. They were supposed to defend themselves for 12 hours, and they lasted seven days. They became a symbol of the Polish army, which always fights to the end. Do you feel, Polish, the heart rate of heroic soldiers from Westerplatte? Today, on the 80th anniversary of those events, can you feel the thrill of your heart and pride like then Poles urging your ear to a box of radios who listened again to Westerplatte defend themselves still? Can you, contemporary, recognize space and a way to honor them? If you are the same blood and the same spirit - Polish at all, appreciating honor above all and giving love to your country - then you will understand that the Gdansk peninsula is a place sanctified with blood, then and tears of a Polish soldier, over whom, if you have a sensitive ear, you will hear a constant prayer: Holy God, Holy Strong, Holy immortal, have mercy on us! From air, famine, fire and war save us, Lord! But also from the stupidity, the clumsyness in the vulgar, hooligan behavior, the national memory, the pride and honor of the nation in the mud. How much we would like to feel that we still have the chance as a community of the nation to rise above the unbearable primitiveism of politicians who are ready in a gluttonous quest for voters' votes to destroy everything and everyone. Let's behave ourselves, fellow countrymen, properly. Let us not forget that it is ours: Westerplatte of the Polish people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u567	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Majka, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u568	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to take a position on the adoption of today's law on promoting the development of services and telecommunications networks and certain other laws. It's an extremely important bill when it comes to 5G technology. However, before I refer to this topic, I will tell you that it is extremely important that we do not have freedom of speech in Poland. Namely, for 30 years no point 3 of the August agreements has been implemented and currently no article is implemented. 54. the 1997 Constitution, as well as Article. 6 and Article 6 Ten press laws. In case of doubt, ladies and gentlemen, I serve with my parliamentary interpellations, which I submitted to the Polish Press Agency, among others. on 5G technology. There you go, ladies and gentlemen, is a confirmation of the stamp of the Polish Press Agency in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, not just in this case. Also, ladies and gentlemen, there is my interpellation concerning the report on the state of the Polish state for the years 1989 and 2018. As far as the 5G issue is concerned, I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Confederation of the Republic of Poland Circle. We voted against on this issue today because this technology does not guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, life and health, the safety of Poles. At yesterday's meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Digitization, I asked Minister Wanda Buk whether, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, notabene activist of the Fighting Solidarity, just as I was an activist of the Fighting Solidarity, Minister Wanda Buk can guarantee that this technology is safe for the life and health of women, especially pregnant women, as well as for the life and health of the human fetus. Unfortunately, but yesterday's manipulation of the chairman of the committee, as well as the failure of Minister Wanda Buk's reply then, as well as today's debate, confirm that the Minister had no guarantee and no report to guarantee the security of this technology. Finally, I can say that the situation is clear: I am not opposed to technological development, to the development of the Polish state, but, ladies and gentlemen, there must be a clear situation, there must be a clear situation, ladies and gentlemen. Poles must be 100% certain that this technology does not harm the life and health of both mothers and pregnant women. Not only women, because this also applies to matters related to the health and life of men. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote a few sentences, which the Minister of the Brussels Government of Céline Fremault said, "I cannot welcome this technology - it is 5G technology - if the radiation standards that must protect the citizen are not respected. The people of Brussels are not guinea pigs that I can sell at a profit. We cannot have any doubts about this. I, too, would like Poles in this matter to have no doubts. That is why we voted against this law when it comes to the Confederation. Members who voted in favour of this law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] take full responsibility for the decision taken. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I bow politely.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u569	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Sněžkou, the Law and Justice to make a statement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u570	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Trześniów is a village beautifully located in the Wisłoka Valley in Podkarpackie Voivodeship in the municipality of Haczów, which celebrates its 600th anniversary this year. The village founded at the end of the 14th century was first mentioned in sources written from 1419 and this date was customary to celebrate the 600th anniversary of its creation. On Sunday, June 16, the celebrations of this impressive anniversary took place. As part of them there was a Holy Mass under the leadership of Fr. Archbishop Adam Szal, the metropolitan of Przemysl, honoring the memory of the inhabitants of Trześniów who died in defence of their homeland and deserved for its development, among them General Bronisław Prugar-Ketling, a reminder of the quite colorful history of Trześniów, which was also recorded in the monograph of the village published on this occasion. There was also a letter by Marek Kuchciński's Marshal, speeches by parliamentarians and self-governments, and finally artistic performances by school youth, folk band Trześniowski weddings, orchestras of Fire Bands from Brzozów and opera singer Danuta Wójcik related to Trześniów. Trześniowians celebrated their jubilee with pride, joy, humor and fun showing their traditions and social commitment. And I was there, and I was happy with them, and these are my homepages. And I would like to commemorate this jubilee of Trześniów, speaking from the Seym's pulpit, and in the Seym's transcript. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u571	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you to make a statement by Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u572	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On July 7, 2019 we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the name given to the village of Stefanów in the municipality of Żelechów in the district of Garwolinski. The origins of the village of Stefanów are inextricably linked to German colonization. The data from the parish archives indicate that already in 1776 there was a forest settlement of Budki Francdorf inhabited by the so-called. builders, i.e. people involved in logging wood and obtaining various raw materials from wood processing. Francdorf's buildings were mainly inhabited by German colonists. Next to the Germans colonists were also settlers of Polish origin, as well as few Jews. In the '90s. Another settlers from Prussia introduced Ignacy Wyssogot Zakrzewski's property owner in the 18th century. The heir sold the Germans forests covering the territory of the current villages of Stefanów and Piasts. The colonists cut out the forest and settled here. The village was named Francdorf. In 1811 German settlers built opposite Goniwilka, on the left side of the guest house leading from Żelechów to Górzna, the first glassworks in the area, which fell after cutting out the surrounding forests. In the village census of 1827 the colony is called Fransdorf or High weather, has 80 farms and more than 600 inhabitants. In time, the colony became so vast that it was divided into two parts, and the division axis was considered the road from Żelechów to Sobolew carried out around 1880. German colonists were Evangelical-Augsburg religions. They founded a cantorate in Francdorf, which took care of elementary school, a prayer room and a cemetery. At the same time, the teacher of the primary school was an exchanger who led the services. The colony originally belonged to the Evangelical parish of Pilica behind the Vistula. The pastor from Pilica came to Francdorf several times a year. Since Żelechów's heir became Lutheran Karolina from Danglów Ordęgowa, German colonists have enjoyed great support from the gelech court. Karolina's husband, the owner of the Jewish goods Jan Ordęga, brought another craftsmen from Prussia to Francdorf. In 1833 he even submitted to the government committee on internal affairs and public enlightenment of the Podlaskie voivodship with a project to make the church of St. Stanisława in Żelechow along with the square sell to the Lutherans of Francdorf, and allocate the funds obtained to build a school in the city and a workhouse for the elderly. However, this plan has never been implemented. Colonists were leading agriculture and industry. In the area of Żelechów, they were pioneers of potato cultivation. The leader in the tannery industry in the entire Łuków district was Tomasz Maresch from Francdorf. He ran a successful tannery for those days. The years of World War I were a touching experience for German villagers. In 1915 the Tsarian authorities took away all German colonists to the depths of Russia, from where only a few returned. After the war, pursuant to the Decree of the Minister of the Interior of 7 July 1919, the name Francdorf was changed to Stefanów and Francdorf II to Piastów. The text of the Regulation states that the name of the village has been changed in accordance with the wishes of the population. There are no clear reasons why such names were chosen. During the interwar period only 13 German families lived in Stefanów, in Piastów - seven. Some families assimilated with the local population, some even changed their names. In 1946 the evangelical church of St. The Holy Trinity was transformed into a Catholic temple and incorporated into the Jewish parish. The wooden chapel received the call of Our Lady of Czestochowa. Important events in Stefanov's life, as in many villages, were electrification, voluntary fire training, construction of a milk pool, telephone and water supply, and construction of a new fire station in 2003. An important place around which the lives of several generations of Stefanov focused was the school. The current primary school dates back to 1867. My memory of Stefanov's history was based on the development of Mr. Michał Sztelmach. I would like to congratulate the people of Stefanov today on this beautiful history of the small country. I wish you the satisfaction and satisfaction of your achievements and success in pursuing your further goals, as well as any success in your personal life and building the splendor of your little homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-04-sejm-83-2.u573	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. and Africa (1.25 billion). and finally Oceania, where 41 million people live. This means that over 30 years, 2.6 billion people have arrived in the world. This is the most important thing in our history. In the current state of increasing economic, nutrition and living problems another population growth can have a disastrous impact on our world. (approximately 98%) ). My intention was to vote against. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 83rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 84th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 17, 18 and 19 July 2019, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 25]]
