ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's operations in 2018. The text of the information is contained in print No 1137. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission, at its meeting on 3 June 2019, listened to the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, Mr. Ernest Beja, present at the Senate meeting. Hello, sir. Hello, sir. I ask the head of the Central Bureau of Corruption to speak and present information. I invite you very cordially to the podium. And I give you my vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u2	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! In fulfilling the obligations imposed by the Central Anti-corruption Office Act, I have the honour to present a report on the activities of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2018. Last year, the priority of all officers and office staff, as well as my personal ambition, was to confirm that a high, close to 47% Social acceptance of CBA activities is justified by the results of our work. Let me start with this, ladies and gentlemen, what were the priorities of the office. One of the main areas of interest of the Office in 2018, which you will be able to hear more about later in my speech, was the identification, recognition and fight against economic crime related in particular to VAT fraud, large-scale tax fraud. These are the actions that we are continuing to do, I think with success. It's been for a few years. Let me give you some examples of some things. They concern different fields and sectors, not only the fuel industry, but also the construction-related industries related to exports. Another area of interest, which, in 2018, can be said to have become a priority, is economic crimes committed in the financial market. You're probably familiar with the GetBack case. In connection with this issue, we have carried out a lot of implementation. Let me give you a little bit more about what this case looks like, but this is an area where, indeed, state protection authorities have not taken effective action so far. It's new to us, too. In this case we are dealing with organized fraud, the issue of toxic bonds, large asset misappropriations, actions in which fraud was committed against many, many people for about PLN 2 billion. So, as you can see, this is a multidimensional, complex matter, but since 2018, the office and the prosecution have been conducting a number of investigations in this area in an effective manner. Another area, which is one of the priorities of the office's activity, is currently and has been in 2018 and is the extortion of EU funds. In this respect, We have conducted more than 36 investigations into extortion of EU funds, among others. by means of unreliable documents, the settlement of the support obtained with the use of non-true invoices. The links between project evaluators and beneficiaries, applicants and applications have been examined. Ladies and gentlemen, this concerns both central and local management institutions. I am thinking here of ministries, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, agencies such as the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the Agency for Industrial Development, also regional operational programmes, the managing authority of which are voivodship boards, offices operating at sejmikas. In this respect, we also deal with a number of operational and control issues. Another area of activity is the fight against irregularities in the activities of companies of the State Treasury. I am thinking not only of the operational investigations, but also of the permanent supervision of the Central Anti-corruption Office on activities in key areas such as key investments. For example, I can mention the connection between Lotos and Orlen, investments in power plants, e.g. Ostrołęka power plants. In this respect, not only do we carry out inspections, but we also provide the government with signal information and analytical reports on these projects. The year 2018, ladies and gentlemen, is also in my opinion the biggest development of the office when it comes to the admission of new officers and employees. Well, throughout 2018 we have received more than 400 people into the Central Anti-corruption Office. Never in the history of the office... Well, maybe it was at first. The office has existed since 2006, i.e. 13 years ago, but in recent years there has never been such a significant human development. It's a big organizational effort. At the end of 2018, the office had 1 thousand 171 officers and 151 employees. We were, of course, also the leading body within the Government's Anti-Corruption Programme for the years 2018 to 2020, which I will mention in the following part of my speech. Further stages of the construction of the system of analysis of state registers and the IT system of analysis were also implemented. This is actually a whole new thing. This will be an excellent tool for us, I think, to improve the efficiency of our work. The analytical analysis system is a system that brings together 20 different registers. He can process them, give the necessary compendium of knowledge to every officer concerning registers such as KRS, KRK, register of perpetual books, data from the Social Insurance Institution. It's all compiled and gives information that can be processed, written down into graphs. It is an extremely modern tool, which will certainly, as it will be implemented in 100% will contribute to the efficiency of the office. I am also pleased that changes have been made at the moment... I'll tell you what I'm gonna I mentioned in previous years that in connection with the fight against economic, financial and, in particular, tax carousel, we are one of the authorities of state protection who have actually been effectively involved in the fight against such crimes. There was a big problem with accessing the data available to the Ministry of Finance. I am thinking here of the data contained in the single control file and in the IT system of the clearing house. and the general data of the Financial Information Inspector. In 2018, cooperation with the General Financial Information Inspector was particularly improved. We get this data much faster, we can say that on an ongoing basis, after the statutory changes that eliminated the intermediary in the form of a prosecutor's office. At the moment, changes are being processed as well. They will be sent to the High House to improve access to these 2 systems, which I mentioned, are key, very important, i.e. a single control file and the IT system of the clearing house. I'm thinking about financial flows here. This will certainly strengthen us and improve our effectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present briefly, before briefly discussing individual cases, statistics on the involvement of the office. In 2018, 470 operational cases were conducted and 185 were initiated. Now important statistical information, which I will pass on in a moment, i.e. operational control, in short, the wiretap that the office used in 2018. In 2018, the head of the CBA addressed 856 such requests to the Attorney General, of which 840 were positively considered. We've had four cases of disagreement between the Attorney General's attorney and the District Court. In 11 cases. I would like to draw attention to one more element of this statistics: 109 applications were timely and here we did not have a single refusal, nor the Attorney General, nor the court. I give these data in a collective way, they include all means of communication, i.e. mobile phones, landline phones, previews, wiretaps. That's all I can tell you in the open form. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the number of requests for financial information submitted in the course of the operational and exploratory activities, 86 requests have been submitted to the court and 122 requests have been submitted to the General Financial Information Inspector. As regards the number of preparatory proceedings, i.e. investigations carried out in 2018, 189 were initiated and the total number of preparatory proceedings conducted in 2018 was 576. The main areas are the government administration, including customs and fiscal administration, local government administration, the economic sector, as I said, including VAT fraud, tax fraud, corporate and personal income tax, EU programmes, including justice, health services, as well as parliamentarians, financial institutions and supervisors. I'd like to show you some data on the statistics on the investigation. Namely, in 2018, 721 suspects were presented with 2,000 226 counts. As far as the quality of the case is concerned, I can point out that 145 people have been temporarily arrested. As far as other preventive measures in the preparatory proceedings are concerned, I will draw attention to one measure, i.e. the asset guarantee. The asset guarantee was applied in 328 cases. In comparison, 29 were temporarily arrested in 2015 and the asset guarantee measure was applied in 87 cases. So, as you can see, we're dealing with a lot of progress here. Of course, I do not want to absoluteise these preventive measures, but it shows the quality of the cases. I will give another data which I believe is important and shows the involvement of the office and its effectiveness. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018 the amount of damage to the property of the State Treasury, which was disclosed as a result of CBA activities, amounts to more than PLN 2 billion, including the value of secured property in the form of money, real estate and property, amounts to more than PLN 448 million. This figure is very important due to the fact that 2018 was the first year in which there was so much progress in terms of the effectiveness of the property security. This is due both to the cases that the office is running. I am thinking here of the economic issues relating to the functioning of the financial market, but also of the statutory changes that have been carried out because an institution of extended confiscation has been introduced. It was in conjunction with the prosecution's actions that led to a strong increase in the effectiveness of the action in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now try to bring you up to speed... Oh, there's another very important activity that shows the quality of office-led cases. I'll also give you the statistics. I am thinking of the operations of the controlled granting or acceptance of the property benefit and so-called. purchase of a controlled one. The conclusions were made and the consent of the Attorney General was obtained in 2018 in the case of 56 such requests. For illustration, for comparison I will give data from 2015: then it was 6 applications. So, as you can see, there has also been a very large increase in this area. I'm gonna stop for a minute on this procedure. It's not just about giving a bribe or accepting it, it's about the office, and I think it's the only service that's using this method to solve crimes involving large tax fraud as well. The point is that in the modus operandi that we adopted at the office, we considered it important to act at the very beginning of the criminal investigation and not only at the end when the damage to the State Treasury has already been revealed and in principle we act post factum, when there are very often no companies, there is no money, no VAT or income tax or has been reduced or its return has been extorted. This is where we turned things around. We try to identify criminal offences at the very beginning and then actively counter them, including in such a way that we purchase controlled false invoices. It is a very effective method, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that in this area We have contributed to the sealing of the tax system and to the increase of revenue to the State Treasury. We also train our partners from the National Tax Administration who have similar powers. This method is indeed extremely effective. Ladies and gentlemen, examples of cases involving tax fraud, tax fraud. As I said, in one of the cases we investigated, the activities of an organised criminal group marketing a significant amount of liquid fuels of undetermined origin without declaring and paying VAT and excise duties. In order to legalise the supply of fuels, a network of connected pretend economic operators was set up to enable the use of the VAT settlement mechanism and to avoid payment of it. In the course of the procedure, a mechanism was established for the payment to the accounts of many entities, including the fuel company and several dozen counterparties, of amounts of not less than PLN 380 million. The procedure resulted in a reduction in VAT revenue of over 297 million. The amount of money sold is PLN 1.5 billion. Another issue is fictitious trade in clothing and services. In 2018, officials of the Central Anti-corruption Office detained 16 people, including Polish citizens, Vietnam, Turkey, who carried out business activities, committed crimes related to the loss of public debt. In the face of 10 arrests, the court applied a temporary arrest. Participants of this organised criminal group were accused of fictitious trade in clothing and services and of issuing inaccurate VAT invoices, the loss of the Treasury's receivables, income tax, and legalising the proceeds of crimes. The total amount of the State Treasury's claims resulting from the allegations already laid down in the indictment act was determined by the accounting expert at PLN 247 million. This is a matter where the proceeds of the sale are immediately transferred, often abroad, and actually no taxes are paid. Proceder's been thriving for years. This is one of the cases that the Central Anti-corruption Bureau and the D.A.'s office have handled together. Another example. The entrepreneurs operating in the south of Poland issued VAT refund documents on exports. They were basically Just the papers, the merchandise was gone. As you know, when we export, we have a VAT refund. The customs authorities have sanctioned this fictional turnover. Officers of the Central Anti-corruption Office have arrested several customs officers and have been charged with confirming the illegal return of goods. This is also part of sealing the system. Of course, property benefits have been assumed, which is to say you have a correlation of tax fraud, VAT fraud, corruption offences committed by public officials. Another case is extortion on the so-called. A vanishing taxpayer. This is, you might say, the classics of these crimes. The findings of one of the investigations indicate that the group of companies was used to extort VAT by using a vanishing taxpayer. Fuel trading mechanism This is because it was the fuel trading that was involved in bringing back fuel from European Union countries, as well as from outside the Union, and then several times and fictitious resale of this fuel to other operators. These activities were masked, among others. by using the so-called. poles representing individual companies and making bank transfers between them. At present, 120 suspects have been charged with the investigation. The amount of proven fictional fuel trading is about PLN 1.5 billion, of which VAT reduction is 300 million. The next case concerns four organised criminal groups, including two international groups. In the course of the operations, VAT fraud of 400 million was thwarted, with the value of false VAT invoices being more than 2 billion zlotys. 33 suspects were detained, including Vietnamese, Armenian, Belarus, who had been charged with more than 100 charges. 15 people were temporarily arrested. This is also another case where criminally, entities which first issue fictitious invoices for a large amount are built, and then these entities are sold to other entities and only these are introduced for subsequent companies which conduct business activities so as to reduce the VAT due and to optimize the cost. All of this, of course, is about cheating. These are just some examples of business cases run by the Central Bureau of Corruption. As I said, we also dealt with property benefits. I'm gonna point out some things about the tax authorities. Well, we were able to redecorate those who were in charge of tax offices. In one of the cases, the suspect, referring to the proceeds at the tax office, undertook to arrange a protective umbrella over the established business activity in exchange for a property benefit for that person and the head of the tax office. This person also brokered the issue of incorrect VAT invoices. In short, she applied to the entrepreneur and stated that she was able, firstly, to issue such invoices, secondly, to arrange a protective umbrella in the form of supervision of the head of the tax office in one of the regions of Poland, of course for bribes, and in fact, it can be said, for a fixed fee to be passed on. Those people were red-handed. The bribe was to be legalized, among others, through the hiring of an office establishment belonging to the sister of that official. In the case, evidence was collected confirming the production and placing on the market of fictional invoices for the amount of more than PLN 770 thousand. It's another case. The investigation concerned the suspicion that the performance of the service activity was dependent on the acquisition of the property benefit and the failure to comply with the duties. This was the case with another head of the tax office and a subordinate tax collector. The entrepreneur from whom the property benefit was claimed brought second-hand cars from abroad, which were then sold back, among others. through its co-operating commissions. After the check carried out, the collector informed this trader about the planned tax rate of PLN 500 000. The completion of the audit and the withdrawal from the calculation was to be conditional on the transfer of the property benefit of PLN 100 000 to the warden. The benefits have not been passed on. The head of the tax office by decision determined the amount of VAT due for nearly 121 thousand. During the next meeting, the intermediary collector informed that the cessation of control activities, including 5 years back, would cost PLN 150 thousand. The tax collector and the head of the office repeated their request and, as a result, they were detained, basically in the act. This is another case that shows how sensitive the area of functioning of the tax authorities is. We're actually dealing with an attempt to scare, blackmail an entrepreneur and claim property benefits. As I said, it was possible to reveal, recognize, detect and retain the right persons, including those performing public functions, very important. Another issue is the case of a very dangerous group, whose members relied on influences in various state institutions, claiming to be special forces officers, among others. ABW and SKW, as well as the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice, Police. There were also meetings at the Main Pharmaceutical Inspectorate. The case concerned the taking-up of property and personal benefits and their promise to broker, among others. protection against tax office checks and police investigators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...led against organized criminal activities. [[Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. If anyone has to have a conversation, do it outside the courtroom. There you go.]] This activity was related to various types of projects, including: with the marketing of fuels, industrial goods and foodstuffs or with the re-export of scarce medicines. Persons claiming influence and claiming to be special forces could participate or manage the activities of several operators involved in the trading of carousel. This group of people has been detained, temporarily arrested. The investigation is underway. We are also conducting operational matters in this area. I think it was one of the most dangerous crime groups that worked. We managed in 2018, as I said, to expose this group and make arrests. As far as the GetBack case is concerned, as I said, the case is multifaceted. It started by making a false assessment of the materials that were the basis for the debut of this company on the stock exchange. There's been fraud. As a result of these frauds, the company's rate was significantly overestimated. It was the first part of a criminal act. Then, on the basis of this excessive rate, the issue of bonds was made for hundreds of millions or even billions of zlotys. These bonds were sold by several banks to individuals as 100% Safe. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been explained to people in this way. In the liquidation of the deposit, another instrument was proposed, misleading people, saying that it is a 100% instrument Safe, like a deposit. That's how those bonds were sold. As you know, GetBack's course has collapsed because there have been other illegal or criminal actions related to the trading of claims through closed investment funds. In any case, as I said, about PLN 2 billion went to individuals, who very often, when buying these bonds, transferred all their savings. 55 suspects have been arrested in this case, 21 are temporarily arrested. We are dealing with arrests of people who perform very important functions: presidents, members of bank management and companies, directors of those who sold these bonds, but also those who carried out fraudulent regulations with property. This company After all, and there were other companies that participated in this trade, it could be said that the funds were not available. First, the money was collected from the stock market debut, then the funds were distributed to other companies through various fraudulent projects, as I said. Some of them, as I said, have been restarted by issuing counterfeit bonds. Here again cash was delivered in large quantities, and then, as a result of various operations, this cash was transferred. So that we're actually dealing with one of the biggest financial scandals here. I'll give you the amounts... We managed to secure 126 million PLN 730 thousand. Crimes are different: fraud, misappropriation of property, use of false documents, acceptance of benefits. Only in 2018 6 projects were carried out, this year 3 more. So, as you can see, the case is unfinished. There are banks here that have not actually been the subject of the active interest of the services so far. I'm thinking of the special forces, the police or the D.A.'s office. It's one of the serious... You can say that there are dozens of investigations here, but this is one of the more important issues that Central Anti-corruption Office is currently dealing with, of course, with the prosecution. I will also point out other proceedings concerning the activities of the criminal group in Warsaw, headed by the insolvency syndicate. The group was aimed at illegally extracting money from the bankruptcy estate with significant assets. The exit took place through a series of fictional transactions with economic operators, often assumed only for this purpose. Many people were involved: well-known entrepreneurs, but not only lawyers and public officials. Measures have been taken from at least 8 masses of bankruptcy. 27 people were charged, with a total of 68 charges: organized crime group, abuse of power, use of false documents, embezzlement of property, money laundering and fraud. The investigation, of course, is developmental. I will just say that as I started my work in 2015, at the end of this year, this investigation was conducted in one of the prosecutors' offices in Warsaw and was actually going to be terminated. It was thanks to the involvement of the office that this investigation was able to raise. There's also a motion to waive immunity from one judge. This request is currently being examined. Who was overseeing the syndicate. The case is very shocking, and it also shows the depth of pathology in this area. Another matter, ladies and gentlemen. As you remember, the so-called case. wild reprivatization, which concerns Warsaw real estate, was a noisy matter. I just want to remind you... Because there are a lot of different, conflicting opinions about this case, I just want to remind you of a set of facts. Central Bureau of Corruption, also at the request of the Minister of Coordinator... It was a joint arrangement of mine, the minister of the coordinator, the deputy. One of the first cases we raised, including the headquarters of the Central Anti-corruption Office, was to conduct an audit in this area. These cases were concluded at the Central Corruption Bureau. In fact, we had to extract them from the archives and start a checkup at the beginning of April 2016. We also started, of course, an investigation in this area with the D.A.'s office. We managed to merge the scattered cases from various District Attorney's Offices and hand them over to the General Attorney's Office in Wroclaw. There are dozens of these investigations, but a few are leading. A team of prosecutors was set up, who, together with the Central Anti-corruption Bureau officers, carried out a number of projects. As I said, there are about 70 preparatory proceedings in this area, involving a total of about 200 properties. So far, most of it has been done by the Regional Attorney's Office in Wroclaw. Five indictments against 18 defendants have already been referred to court and 40 people have been charged. It was, among other things. about accepting and giving property benefits, money laundering, false testimony, large-scale fraud. As far as you are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the amount of the property benefits you receive is amazing, too, because it amounts to more than PLN 30 million. I'm thinking of people running the Real Estate Management Office and co-workers. The value of the damage revealed at the moment is over 300 million, and it is estimated that it can be up to PLN 2 billion. So the result is that the actions of the Central Bureau of Corruption led to charges, disclosure of this fact, securing property worth more than 130 million PLN and, as I said, forwarding 5 acts of prosecution. The case is still pending. The charges were made against well-known entrepreneurs who benefited from this practice. These are facts. They also show our determination and honesty in this area. Like I said, the case isn't over. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there are many other things I can only mention. You've heard about the KNF investigation. He was detained by the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Committee, charged with corruption. We did this together with the D.A.'s office. I would like to remind you of another investigation, which I find interesting, one of the first and few, which concerned the fictitious trade in drugs, namely fictitious exports. Here, too, several people who traded drugs within the organized group were able to stay here. This was based on the fact that the drugs from the pharmacy, so to speak, flew to NZOZ's private health care facility and then from this NZOZ were exported abroad, in this case to Bulgaria. Of course, as you know, these were drugs, which are particularly needed in the market, for which there is high demand and which are expensive. We've been able to expose it and keep seven people. In my opinion, this is the first such case - it was conducted together with the prosecutor's office in Bialystok, worth about PLN 50 million, which the law enforcement authorities carried out effectively. This is not the last case. This is also our answer to the fact that there are no medicines in the market and that these deficits are caused precisely by the so-called. parallel exports. I would like to tell you that, of course, the Bureau is conducting both operational and investigative activities in this area. That's just an example, right? There'll be more. Of course, I would also like to talk about cooperation with the Ministry of Health, with the authorities of the Ministry of Health in this area. I think this is also an example of the effectiveness of our actions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as far as control is concerned, the Central Bureau of Corruption has more than just investigative, operational powers. As you know, we are the only special service that also has the right to carry out administrative checks, somewhat similar to those carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber. This applies to 2 areas - the first is compliance with the Act on the limitation of activities by persons performing public functions, and the second applies, in general, to economic decisions resulting from the Regulation of property in various areas. And I want to briefly present data on this field of activity. In 2018 we divided this activity into so-called cases. the most general, which is the control cases... There were 1,000 422 of them. If we want to deepen this analysis, we convert it to pre-control analysis. Such pre-control analyses were carried out 727. If, as a result of such a pre-audit analysis, the officials of the Office consider that there is a basis for formal initiation of checks, then checks are initiated, and such checks have been carried out 145. I would like to say that as far as public officials are concerned, we are carrying out systemic analyses of all parliamentarians and members of the government with a view to making true statements. This, of course, does not necessarily translate into the formal initiation of controls. We usually formally initiate several such inspections within a year, but they are not the result of accidental actions, but of some in-depth processes that we are conducting within the office. Such systematic analyses also apply to members of the government I'm thinking about ministers here, vice ministers. We're looking into it by comparing the content of the property statements with the databases. We have also started such a system analysis of all the presidents of large cities. So that any control of a public servant is preceded by such a preliminary analysis. I ask you, in what area have the control activities been carried out? It is mainly about public procurement, the management of public funds, including, as I said, the disposal of funds originating in the European Union. I will point out here, for example, the control at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which was the managing authority in this regard. We had several controls at the National Centre for Research and Development, concerning among others. appropriations which have been earmarked for the so-called: Startups, over PLN 100 million. There are results of these checks. There have been checks at the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. As you remember, at one time we carried out a coordinated check at the Marshal offices, and as a result we revealed irregularities concerning the formation of producer groups, agricultural producer groups. During our activities, we have revealed how these groups functioned. They've been racketeering a lot. from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The checks we carried out confirmed this. E.g. one of the business groups, a group of fruit and vegetable producers, extorted from ARiMR in Lubuskie voivodeship... Members of this group consisting of 3 entities declared first... How did this group come into existence? They said that the group was formed by 5 members, in fact they were just family members. This claim was not verified by the employees responsible for this by one of the departments of the Marshal's Office and, as a result of the introduction of the Marshal's Office, a decision was taken to pre-recognition of these persons as a group of fruit and vegetables producers. On this basis, the regional branch of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture made payments to this group amounting to PLN 31 million in 2008. The CBA's findings allowed the prosecutor's office in Zielona Góra to investigate this case in August 2018. That's an example. There are more cases of such producer groups, where, let's call it, the genesis is the wrong decision of the office which evacuated such a group. And then we have further activities related to obtaining funds from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Very interesting control, maybe from another field I can give you this as an example. This is a matter concerning the functioning of the ISOK project system, i.e. the IT system of national protection. We carried out such control in Polish Waters and the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. These institutions had a problem with the introduction of this system. He was really supposed to protect the country from the extraordinary dangers of weather breakdowns, water management. The project was significantly delayed, its implementation was subject to a large question mark, and work on the implementation of this project worth about 300 million has been ongoing since 2010. It's just that there was a real threat that money would have to be returned. Thanks to the operations of the Central Anti-corruption Office, this project was successfully completed. This is an example of preventive action. We managed to implement this project. We have even received our respects, our appreciation from these institutions. As I said, we have managed to save resources from the Union and the ISOK system is functioning. Another example of control, ladies and gentlemen It's kind of a different area. There is an inspection carried out at the Royal Bathroom Museum. It's about renting to a private company actually the entire area of the Royal Bathrooms. I'm talking about Belvedere under adverse conditions. In addition to the lower rent rates compared to market prices, at least six times the lease agreement, inter alia. contained clauses which made it difficult to terminate it within 30 years, giving proper priority to the conclusion of the next lease agreement to that company, setting up an exclusivity to that company for the provision of catering services throughout the museum. In fact, the agreement has continued since 1998 and for a good cause since 1988. According to our findings, this led to damage to the State Treasury during this period from 1998 until today to over PLN 40 million. Of course, the contract was concluded without notification to the Ministry of the Treasury, although the museum's statutes did not provide for the lease to be a source of financing for its activities. In 2014 another sponsorship agreement was concluded with Belvedere, Cafe Lazienki, which was equally detrimental to the museum, resulting in a damage of PLN 288 thousand by January 2017. In October 2018, a notice was sent to the former director of the Royal Lazienki Museum who did not take proper action to resolve or renegotiate the terms of the agreement. The investigation has been initiated, it's being conducted at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just an example to show the spectrum of control activities undertaken by the Central Anti-corruption Office. There is also an area that I mentioned, namely analytical and information activities. These are both criminal analyses, which we carried out almost 400 in 2018 in various cases, analysis of financial flows, materials of cases, analysis of phone records, and more than 200 cases of this kind. As well as cases which take the form of reports and information sent to the Prime Minister and through the Minister of Coordinator to individual ministers. More than 40 such studies were sent to the Prime Minister and individual ministries. This was information containing e.g. guidance on the functioning of very important areas of the public sector. I will pay particular attention here to the functioning of public institutions in the field of information technology. This is a task that we have been doing for years. I'm thinking about supporting you, making some evaluations, analyzings, anti-corruption shields. And here I will point out that we are particularly active in the Social Insurance Institution in this area. It's the main IT system that's in there. As you know, as a result of the management of the Social Insurance Institution, this area has been rationalised, the savings amount to several hundred million zlotys in terms of the operation of the IT system, its development. We can also say that the officers of the Central Anti-corruption Office, our specialists, analysts, in constant contact with specialists in the Social Security Office, have contributed to optimizing this system. I can say, for example. at the moment, the Social Insurance Institution sees for the first time who pays the contributions The bet hasn't seen it at all before. This has already led to, you can say, even hundreds of millions of savings on an annual basis. We also see how insurance benefits from redundancies. This is also a functionality that has been recently launched. Thus, these are elements that contribute to sealing the public impact system. And as you can see, the essence is e.g. good functioning of information systems and proper management of institutions. The same is true of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. There, for example. there has been an anti-corruption cover on the Agency's key systems. The agency's IT core, implemented with the constant support of office analysts, will save nearly PLN 200 million in a 3-year perspective. The point is, Ladies and gentlemen, that finally the Arimr has succeeded in this system, you can say, take over and maintain it yourself and develop it. Previously, the situation was usually that the system was created by an external entity that maintained and developed it. Of course, the public sector unit in question, I think of the ZUS, ARiMR, can also mention the example of the Ministry of Finance or the NFZ simply paid for it annually, without also having the prospect of taking control of this system, i.e. taking over source codes, copyrights, etc., etc. It's changed right now. With our support, similar works are being carried out, precisely as regards the NFZ and the Ministry of Finance, of which we are particularly pleased, because in the Ministry of Finance, as you know, there are key systems that have been introduced as a result of the reform. She's really important, and she's really helping us. I mean, especially this data. I mentioned a uniform control file. As you know, a single control file is the data from invoices that entrepreneurs present as if they were entering into this system. So, in short, the tax authorities can see right away how a given entrepreneur settles, what are the amounts on invoices and thus the amount of tax charges, they can also see the type of service. For us, this is it. And an extremely important clue that helps us fight organised financial crime, especially carousel crimes and tax fraud on goods and services. We're gonna do it right now. Both the Central Anti-corruption Office and the Internal Security Agency Thanks to our proposals and, you can say, working together with the Ministry of Finance we will have facilitated access to these data so that we can react much faster. Because often, as you know, we have to wait for feedback and it's crucial. Even weeks. And whether you can respond effectively will sometimes be determined by days. We can do this in cooperation, for example. with the General Inspector of Financial Information who has the power to block funds on accounts. And that's what we do. With better access to these data, thanks to legislative changes, we will certainly be more effective here. I am thinking not only of the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, but also of the Internal Security Agency. These changes are currently being processed. Ladies and gentlemen, not only in the field of IT, but also in the field of health care... And this isn't just about, as I said, investigative, operational actions that lead to the unsubs being exposed. Also in cooperation with the Ministry of Health... We are trying to support their analytical work, the legislative work on drug distribution, the fight against conflicts of interest in the health department, the reimbursement of medicines. We're engaged in medical equipment shopping, in many areas. I think this is part of the office's preventive work. I will also point out that as far as the fuel and energy sector is concerned... We presented our reports on the Baltic Pipe project, building block C at the Ostrołęka power plant. As far as the financial sector is concerned, we have led to meetings, among others. with KNF and with the Ministry of Finance and we have presented reports on the activities of closed investment funds, especially in the context of these tasks and activities of KNF. Also the corporate bond market... This is, ladies and gentlemen, so that the State's protection authorities, the financial supervisory authorities have information and some knowledge, but they cannot exchange such information. This is a matter of proper coordination and communication of this information. 'Cause, you know, like... Financial Supervision Commission, which has knowledge e.g. about the functioning of the bond issue, although not all, because these corporate ones are, so let's call it, except for the current view... At the moment, statutory changes are going in such a way as to have, let's say, a greater insight into those corporate bond issues that might be putting at risk right now. As was the case with GetBack, individuals for fraud and as a result the loss of life savings. A greater exchange of information is needed. Here, in this respect, we have led not only to team meetings but also to legislative changes. I mentioned this one shift, and I think there's gonna be another one. And we really want to involve KNF in this. There's all the supervision of the investment funds closed. Ladies and gentlemen, according to my knowledge in these closed investment funds, investing in these funds is a privileged tax advantage and, moreover, the insight into the flows between these funds is hindered by more than PLN 180 billion. So, as you can see, this is a large area that should be properly supervised when it comes to investing in these funds and the flows between these funds. In this area, as I said, in the correlation with the Ministry of Finance and KNF, we are working to change the law in order to improve the exchange of information, coordination of these activities. Ladies and gentlemen, we also conducted, as I said, Technically within the framework of the anti-corruption shield, several dozen projects in various areas. It goes on, among other things. about maintaining IT systems or, as I said, the Platform for Electronic Services of Customs. Well, here are some areas: ePUAP, identity management system... These are the things we deal with all the time. The Central Anti-corruption Office, in cooperation with the relevant ministries and institutions, deals with prevention in this area. In addition to operational and investigational, analytical and informational and control activities, we conduct preventive activities in the form of trainings. In 2018, we conducted 126 trainings in 79 institutions, a total of almost 6 000 officials were trained. An interesting instrument, which has been in operation for years, is the CBA training platform, which has been modified. It's so-called. an e-learning platform in which you can, using the internet, conduct the entire process of anti-corruption training. We have seen a very large increase in interest in this form. Since the beginning of its operation, total training has been completed by 137 thousand 189 people, so it is also an example of good preventive and preventive action. We are, of course, also the leader in the Government's Anti-Corruption Programme for 2018-2020. In this respect, it is a priority to carry out the task of establishing a single system for the submission and analysis of asset statements by public office holders. Right now, this system is distracted. In fact, you could say there's a dozen. ♪ Or 20, I guess, but I'm talking from memory ♪ Model statements. It's gotta be harmonised. There are several different laws that talk about the obligation to make these statements Of course, the most important is this law concerning restrictions on the conduct of business activities by persons performing public functions. In fact, we're close to completing the project. Under this Government's Anti-Corruption Programme Which brings the matter into line and introduces a single model. We would also very much like this pattern to be in electronic form. Our specialists are also working on this. Here I can also boast that apart from the fact that we were able to adopt 20 programmers in 2018... This has led to such a state that we are working on our own systems, I mentioned a system of analysis of state registers, but we also managed to take over systems that were written for us by external entities. These entities have stopped supporting these systems, but our programmers have recapitulated the entire source code. We had one critical accident once, and we managed to remove this critical accident on our own, thanks to the employment of specialists. It is very upbuilding for us, it is very good for the future. We are working on a few new analytical systems, as I said, and we would also like to introduce the electronic circulation of documents, as far as possible, with all restrictions on secrecy, of course, with the protection of classified information. As far as international cooperation is concerned, I can say that they are well in the bilateral sphere. We work together on a permanent basis, e.g. with the anti-corruption services of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia. We worked together with the Latvian service on a single matter concerning corruption. This was a common matter. It was about corrupting high officials. Theirs, in their capital, in Riga In terms of bus delivery, the buses were delivered by the Polish company. There were also dishonest people who simply tried, or actually did, to win the tenders in exchange for their wealth benefits. We have carried out a joint implementation. There was, of course, also the issue of financial flows, which were conducted in a very thoughtful way, from Poland by Cyprus, through countries of the Far East, to Latvian companies. All of this has been established together and led to the capture of the perpetrators. Not only on the Polish side, but also on the Latvian side. This is an example of good cooperation. Another example of such good cooperation is cooperation with the National Anti-corruption Office of Ukraine. We have recently had a common implementation, we have captured the perpetrators as a result of joint actions. It can be said that cooperation with this small service, with just over 700 people who have many difficulties, is exemplary. They have a branch in Lviv, we work in a border area, we make common arrangements, as I said, we run common cases. It's incredibly upbuilding. Of course, we cooperate in international areas, in anti-corruption organisations in Europe such as GRECO, the Group of States Against Corruption, the OECD, and we also cooperate with partners from the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom. There's been an interesting meeting lately at one of the British banks. This is an interesting level of exchange between business and the public sector, and we can compare how their legal systems work in the area of information exchange, combating particularly money laundering offences, which is also the activity of the Central Anti-corruption Office. As far as the budget is concerned, in 2018 the budget of the Central Anti-corruption Office amounted to PLN 228 million, 823 thousand, including 31 million, was from the so-called funds. special-purpose reserves, intended for, inter alia, for renovation and purchase of new premises. I am glad that we managed to get a new seat in Warsaw, it was transferred to us by the Ministry of Digitalization. We have local problems, the premises in Ujazdowskiego 9 are small, and we have been renting in Warsaw for commercial years... I hope this changes and we can move to our new headquarters. We need resources for the renovation of this new headquarters. We are renovating offices in individual delegations. I'm especially happy for you. from the renovation in Gdansk and I hope that this year we will be able to carry it out. At the moment, the delegation in Gdansk is located in the building after the haberdashery warehouse. You know, you can say that it's only good because no one expects that there could be such a respectable institution in a place like this... Seriously, the local problems are also in Wrocław, but we will also have a new headquarters there. We opened a delegation in Bydgoszcz this year I'm looking towards Senator Rulewski. There's no problem with the place. This is not a large delegation so far, but I think we will also develop in staff there. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that I have briefly presented to you the most important elements, statistics. Of course, I am at your disposal and if there are questions, I will try to give you an exhaustive answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, would any of your senators like to ask a question to the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office? That's a question I have to ask, even though I know they're already willing to ask questions. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome. We're going to group three people together and then I'm going to vote for the Minister. You're welcome, Senator. One minute, of course, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u4	In the information, in the section Education and prevention, one sentence is the issue of property claims. You also referred to this issue in your speech. I'd like to ask the Minister... Because from my many years of experience as head of the Senate's rule of law committee, and before that head of the Sejm's ethics committee, which they have in their competence to check the property statements, I know that we all know. That errors made when making statements are not an essential part of... Well, we all assume good will by making these statements, we do it in good faith. There are concerns, but most of them stem not from bad will, but from the form of a declaration of property, which is annexed to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator. The dispositions contained in this statement no longer conform to reality. They are so formulated that they give great freedom of interpretation and fulfilment, and all the more verifiable. I would like to ask the Minister about the concrete steps that the office is taking in this area with the best possible analysis of these developments. In particular, I am referring to actions in contact with the Ministry of Justice or maybe with other offices, so that, having a parliamentary majority behind us, we can amend the law in this regard so that these statements are not a trap for Members and Senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u5	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u6	Thank you very much. Minister, my question may not be entirely addressed to you, but I'll ask. I often meet with people who run smaller businesses. In general, in the case of the State Treasury, there is talk of extortion amounting to millions of zlotys, but for small companies, people who collect goods, and not pay amounts of several or several thousand, are also a powerful threat. And we know that today, the responsibility of people who, say, run some kind of business and take goods from different manufacturers or suppliers for less money, well, it's small or zero in a situation where they don't settle or just roll up their business and don't settle with the Treasury or with companies. Is there any provision in this direction for a tightening of penalties? The point is that this way it can mobilize... or treat it the same way as larger crimes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u7	Thank you very much. And Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. And then there's gonna be an answer to the questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u8	Thank you very much. I could break down those questions, but somehow I'm gonna try to group them together, because they also involve property claims. I would like to ask you about the situation of Minister Dworczyk, who repeatedly conceals not only shares in the company, but also shares in the house, profits from the sale of the villa, etc., etc. CBA officers say they're checking it out, and they're not gonna check it out again, as I understand it. Meanwhile, Marshal Struk, Marshal of the Pomeranian Voivodeship recently received charges for similar offences. We had the case of Minister Szyszka, who actually gave the residence as a barn. It seems to me that people do not understand why some people are punished and are affected by notices, while others avoid such punishment. If you could also tell me how it is that in the case of Minister Dworczyk it is OKO. The press showed the situation, not the CBA, I'd ask for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u9	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the statement of property I'll start with that. This is, of course, a major problem of a systemic nature. As I put it in my presentation, we have dozens of models of property statements, everyone is different, and there are also dozens of regulations on this. We believe that this needs to be harmonised, and we have taken action to harmonise under the Government's Anti-Corruption Programme. As you remember, there was a bill presented earlier by the Minister of Coordinator. There was included, among others. the matter of claims of property. We've been doing this job again right now. We would very much like to see it in this term of office, but I do not know if this will work, a project has been submitted in which we will present a model for a new statement of property. He must be consulted so that the elements which are assessed, ambiguous, eliminate in a non-disputed manner. We know that these patterns differ, that there are interpretation differences. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility arises from the qualifications of the article. 233 criminal code. The only way to deal with criminal liability is if, in a faulty, deliberate way, we ignore the element. Of course, the devil is in the details, it is a matter of findings, detailed analyses, checks. What is this analysis of the statement? This is not just a comparison of such declarations previously made. We also compare them with databases that are available. And at a time when some elements do not agree, we have doubts, we also have the opportunity to deepen our analysis on the basis of tax, banking data. That's what we're doing. As I said, the recipe is to introduce a uniform, one pattern, which, you can say, we have developed. It must now be presented, presented to you, i.e. before, of course, appropriate consultations, and launch the legislative process in this area. We know it's about time we brought this together. I think as the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, we'll be ready to submit such a project to the government before the election. This is of course a decision not ours, how it will be triggered, but I think it can also be discussed publicly. Of course, we're ready to show you what it's gonna look like. This is, I think, a remedy for... actually, you can't eliminate all the doubts associated with the interpretation of certain records, with their meaning capacity, but I think this is the right and good step in that direction. As for the particular cases that the senator asked about, I can say yes... As far as Minister Dworczyk is concerned, the case is under investigation. He himself submitted an appropriate letter to the Central Anti-corruption Office, stating that he wanted to resolve doubts about his statement. We're in charge, we're in charge, we're in charge. It is not finished, so it is difficult for me to refer to what the results will be. I don't want to talk about the details right now, because, like I said, the case is underway. But it's not like we're not dealing with a case. I know there are some things about the distant past. It's about the sale, but I don't know if it's like you said it was something that Minister Dworczyk didn't consciously reveal. It's still... Let's say the Eye. press as a publicist portal has the right to formulate such a view. For our part, we can say this: we are conducting a detailed analysis and how it will be completed, this will be information. It's not like we're missing anything. I can only say that on the part of Minister Dworczyk there is cooperation, or, in fact, it can be said that he started this by, say, asking for some doubts to be resolved. As far as Marshal Struk is concerned, please bear in mind that the charges have been filed by the prosecutor's office, the charges of making a false statement of property. Of course, it's based on our findings. Without going into details, I can only say that these allegations relate to discrepancies in the amount It seems that there are several tens of thousands of zlotys involved in the non-disclosure of several times, seems to be some plot in individual statements and... I only repeat what I know à about the contents of the charges, in the most way, I think... [[General.]] ...general, although I try not to miss anything. Another thing is, it seems, the lack of confirmation of the fact of sitting on the board of foundations, and this is the Solidarity Centre Foundation. As I recall, it's also a loan. I don't remember how much, but I think it's a couple dozen thousand zlotys. I repeat: this is the decision made by the prosecution on the basis of the materials that we have collected, and it is implied by the fact that it has been recognised that several times incorrect declarations have been repeated, that the statements have repeated shortcomings or errors... It was thought that this was a matter of conscious action. This isn't an emergency, a single statement. There will always be controversy. Like I said... Well, that's all I can say. Of course, the court will decide here as to the case of Marshal Struk. As regards the question of the liability of small businesses for fraud, of course, the regulation of punishment for so-called large tax fraud, namely Article. 271a of the Penal Code, where the penalties have been severely tightened, and if we succeed in a preliminary investigation to determine that fraud has, let's say, a form of loss... and this fraud is at millions of zlotys... But when it comes to less fraud, I think there are enough laws in the criminal code and in the tax code that are valid for such behaviour. It is only necessary to apply these provisions properly. I'm thinking about the inevitability of punishment and the speed of its application. And when it comes to ailment, the most significant ailments in this case are financial ailments. I think that the practice of the national tax authorities, I think, that the Central Anti-corruption Office does not deal with such minor matters. It goes in this direction to introduce financial sanctions, if any, in the case of such minor cases. That's a solution. But the point is different here. Organs need to see, and in order to see, you need to have the right systems and here I can say that they are also completing work on the POLTAX 2. This is also a system that will merge all tax returns. So far, ladies and gentlemen, 30 years of free Poland have passed and we have not managed to introduce such a system, which, in my opinion, also shows the weakness of functioning in a rather crucial field. The system is dispersed, the owners of this system in particular branches are the heads of the tax offices. They function differently, as you know. I have presented two examples of the functioning of the chiefs of the tax offices. And they have a lot of responsibility and a lot of power in the local area. So it's not like we're gonna... Of course it's good to give some power... to delegate some power to local governments. Yeah, but they also have to act in an efficient way to collect taxes. Because as a result, part of the income tax goes to local governments. And if the tax authorities, the state protection authorities, do not act in an efficient way, we will have problems with the budgetary economy. Well, because it translates, it's obvious. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is now asked by Marshal Michael Seweryński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u12	Minister, you mentioned in your speech that some legal changes are needed to improve the activities of your institution. Could you point to a kind of change, perhaps a specific piece of legislation? Except, of course, the above-mentioned regulation of the form of the statement of property. The Senate, as the Legislative Chamber, is interested in actions which are particularly urgent and which should be undertaken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Komarnicki. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you've spent a lot of time in your speech. Okay, okay, okay, okay, The famous event of GetBack, the famous event that the whole society lives on. And I have two questions. My first question goes in the following direction. As we all know, this case has covered, you can say, the number of damage done to those poor people who invested in those toxic bonds... Don't you think it's time for this to be the subject of the parliamentary committee's work? When parliamentary committees explain something, we often avoid a system later. And it was a stealing system that's not just worth closing up. You know, just locking people up isn't good enough. They'll be next, and they'll be doing the same thing. It's about warning the public. I think that such public confession of those who caused this would be a beautiful training for the whole society. This is the first case. Second thing. Do you hold bank employees responsible? These are very often trained employees who, on behalf of their bank, have encouraged these toxic bonds. It makes no sense to close them, but it would be worth turning to banks that knew perfectly well that they were toxic bonds so that those poor people would give their money back. They're not to be spared.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u16	I'm gonna group up two very important cases. I'd like to ask you about two issues that also concern CBA employees, and there are agents out there somewhere. This is, among other things. The tape affair, connected with the recent testimony of the suspect Mr. Falenty, who claims to have been a member of the service during the previous authorities, as well as collaborating with the services in his current term of office, i.e. he acted during the previous government and during the current government. It seems that, in the context of the good services, it is in the interest of all the heads of the Central Anti-corruption Office to explain this matter, so to speak, because it is a scandal that actually upsets. The second issue is so-called. The Podkarpacka affair I'd like to ask what's going on about this case right now. At what stage is your investigation? What are you doing with all this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u17	Thank you. Please, Minister. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, when I asked questions about urgent changes to specific legislation, I mentioned it. At the moment, the amendment of the Act is being examined. This is extremely important and important to us. I think it's not just for us, it's for the other state protection authorities. Within the framework of these changes, we will have easier access to the systems of the Ministry of Finance. Now, gentlemen, the situation is that I think not only of us, but also of the police, of the Internal Security Agency, of the Border Guard, have access to the materials of the Ministry of Finance, collected by the authorities of the Ministry of Finance in the preparatory proceedings, when it is too late, when the suspicion of a crime is made. The point is that we can exchange information at an earlier stage. I'm not thinking about the control files here, the situation where the authorities carry out the controls, but about the data collected in the systems. This is extremely important information for us from our point of view. Change of the tax administration which is currently being processed in the Sejm As far as I know, perhaps at this Senate meeting you will have the opportunity to familiarize yourselves with this change. It will lead to a situation in which we will have, you can say, much easier access, even directly, to JPK data and data on financial flows between entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that this is not about Kowalski's data and what kind of regulations he makes, because in this case we have to apply for the court's consent and only after the court's consent can we obtain this data. This is about data on financial flows between companies. Following money is a key element in the effectiveness of the services in the field of financial crime prosecution, fiscal fraud, money laundering, but also corruption. And this is a change that I think is the most urgent and necessary at the moment. And I'm glad she's being processed. It's not just about accessing this data through the Central Bureau of Corruption, which is extremely important. Neither do we. the possibility of obtaining data directly from KNF before the preliminary investigation is initiated. It seems obvious that we should exchange such information, and we do not. We can't do that until KNF hands over the relevant material to the D.A.'s office and then, as part of the investigation, if it's entrusted to us, we have access to this data. It seems that this change should also be introduced, although not as urgently as the one I mentioned to you here. There are many other areas where it is particularly important to improve the flow of data and to exchange information between institutions and services. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, so that the prosecutor can access banking secrecy in the investigation... The rule is that he has the opportunity to access it when an investigation is taking place against a particular person. Well, you'll admit that's pretty ridiculous. If we already have a suspect, it means that there's evidence that the person committed the crime, and we don't really need him then... Well, maybe this data might be useful to us, but in principle it should be so that the prosecutor in the investigation should be able to access such data properly earlier, in the in-rem phase rather than in personam. So there are some changes that should be made. I think we're gonna postulate that. We cooperate with the Minister of the Coordinator and with the various departments, with the Ministry of Finance, with the Minister of Justice. This will certainly improve the effectiveness of the operation and will make a decisive contribution to improving safety. If we apply the budget sealing category, you'll see that this has already happened, I can tell you... This is, of course, not just a matter of the strict issue of legislative solutions. This must be followed by functional solutions, i.e., in short, the creation of appropriate structures with competent people, determination in all of this and the prudent operation of power, which will know that these bodies are to act, to complement themselves. It's all supposed to be complementary. It's supposed to complement. Then there's the effect. And I think this effect will be seen even better. That's what I think. We know how to do it, and we're gonna do it. If this is about GetBack and the parliamentary committee you were talking about, I'll say yes. At the moment we are acting effectively, Mr. Senator, i.e. the D.A. and the Central Anti-corruption Bureau have carried out, as I said, many operations during which dozens of people have been detained. Over 20 arrests have been applied and are covered, as I said, e.g. members of the Management Board as well as the governors of the banks. Of course, suspects and arrests were also those who sold it, especially those who sold the most, and those who decided how to sell these instruments. This is also, in my opinion, a step that no one has ever taken before. We show that there is no impunity in this area. It can't be that we leave people at the end of the day, companies go bankrupt, and nobody's actually responsible. Money is transferred, people have that money hidden somewhere, say, in offshore zones, and ordinary people stay with toxic papers, worthless. Well, as I said, in this case about 140 million assets are secured in the form of real estate, money, securities. And that's not our last word. We're really ruthlessly enforcing the law here with the D.A.'s office. And I believe that these actions are effective today. I can return here again to the matter of exchange of information and early flow of information and say this: if this better exchange had existed earlier, i.e. if we had been led by KNF, then probably the reaction could have occurred sooner accordingly. This is a matter of de lege referenda's demands for changes in regulations It is not even a way of functioning, because KNF, as I said, is not able to communicate some information to everyone, but also some things it does not see, e.g. the issuance of corporate bonds that are outside the public circuit. This is where a change needs to be made, so that the Financial Supervision Authority can at least see such an issue. I'm not saying that it has to be reported in terms of obtaining consent, as it is in the case of a stock market debut when we prepare a prospectus, but there is also at least important information here. We also know how to change this, how to change matters related to the trading of shares by a company that is in the National Securities Deposit, how to see the functioning of brokerage houses, insurance brokers, etc., which, in a way, can be said to make certain financial operations, in which we deal with hundreds of millions of zlotys in a transfer from one entity to another by removing certain assets, assets on the one hand, and where it is possible to expose to a large loss in principle without any liability. These are the things we see. There are some changes that need to be made here, but I don't think there is a committee of inquiry at this stage. That's what I think. A good solution because the organs work effectively. You could say that if he were... And I don't think there's any reason to believe that anything in these cases is being held back. It's the opposite. There's a lot of determination to make this case, or rather these cases, because it's a lot of things to settle to the very end. As for the two cases that the senator was asking about, the so-called. The tape scandal, Mark Falenta... Here I will stress: of course, because of my function, I cannot talk about details. Of forms, methods and sources. This isn't public information. I'm the head of the office. You understand that, the State cannot provide such information. However, as far as Mark Falenta is concerned, it must be noted that this is the man who has now been convicted of recording illegal public functions. I would like to remind you that the issue was revealed in 2014, in June, through publication, appropriate investigative action was then taken and the charges were brought against Mark Falenta. This case continued after the election, the indictment went to court, i.e. After the election, he was sent to court, and the court sentenced him to 2.5 years in prison. It's an absolute punishment. I'm saying it without judging her majesty. And the judgment is final. At the moment, Mr. Marek Falenta presents in a different way. Let's call it that. The origin of this recording procedure. Here I will remind you only that he spoke earlier about the fact that he acted alone, i.e. In cooperation only with waiters, and right now he's trying to say And it's important, and it affects me personally to some extent, so I can relate to it. That we were inspirational, i.e. I'm thinking about me here, Minister Mariusz Kaminski and Maciej Moustache. Mr. Marek Falenta makes such suppositions. That's what it is. That's what you gotta call it. That's a lie. It's not even true, it's just a lie. We weren't inspirational. We learned about the case, like everyone else, in 2014 from messages addressed to the public. This is very important and I want to emphasise this very strongly. Whatever Mark Falenty's role was, etc., we were no inspirations for the process of recording public people in restaurants. Like I said, now it's the way it is. Let me just remind you that in 2014 it was launched... And then, when the Civic Platform of PSL was running, there was a lot of time, and there was really freedom in determining who was the inspiration, who was behind it, what the genesis of this case looked like. From 2014 until the end of 2015 an intensive investigation was carried out and as a result of the findings of this investigation it was not established that someone Well, I'll leave that to your assessment. I'm just saying it's not true, or actually a lie. About the so-called. The Podkarpackie scandal, it also grew a lot of myths here. The person your senator mentioned, an ex-officer, says all sorts of things about this case, and he says it in public, too. This has been met with an appropriate response. We reported a suspicion of a crime involving slander and slandering the good name of the service, not just us. Why is that? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this officer, being an officer, has never once signaled such a thing. He did not have any special powers, nor was he extraordinarily treated by the servants, and he never once signaled such a kind, say, revelation, being in the service. The office really runs different cases, they're very, let's say, sensitive, they're about people with the highest functions, and there's no problem with accepting such information. He wrote that he came into possession of this kind of information when he left the office, actually left the office and wrote through the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office to the Prime Minister. So it was typical, colloquially speaking, of a throwaway. There's not a single note made by that officer. And that's what we've been talking about before about so-called. The Podkarpackie scandal, so it's kind of a conundrum, and it's pretty serious. It's gonna happen, too, I think, with the right reaction. I draw attention to the fact that if a former officer claims to have come into possession of such sensational information, then why hasn't he given any testimony to the prosecution so far? He's been summoned several times, and he's covered by a doctor's release. It shows the whole game and that there's nothing inside, ladies and gentlemen, because there's no... As for the Podkarpackie affair, you will remember that the Podkarpackie affair was handled by both the CBA and the police. There, we've been dealing with criminal offences at different levels. At the same time, the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, conducting detection activities, as I said, stopped, among others. The head of the IRS kept a dozen customs officers. Except this isn't what this officer's doing. These are just, as I said, false information presented at the end that he was a witness... or otherwise: he had a source that gave him some recordings. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no such recordings, there never was. It is a simple lie expressed by this officer and I say it in a completely responsible and categoric manner. This is an attempt to mediaise the matter and to create service and to cause sensations and slander to public officials, because there was one Member and a Marshal. I think the case, as far as this person is concerned, will continue at the D.A.'s office. There's an investigation going on. And I say it, like I said, with all the responsibility. The Podkarpacka affair is a matter of accepting the property benefits of the former Marshal, by the former Head of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, by people associated with them. We now have an issue, as I said, with the functioning of the tax and customs services, there are a number of actions which reveal this phenomenon. There used to be a case of the head of the Central Bureau of Investigation held by the Homeland Security Agency, who ran a social agency and supervised... There was an umbrella of services on this type of activity: trafficking in human beings, running social agencies. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, this investigation takes years and in this investigation, to my knowledge, there are no such arrangements related to recording, registration of persons performing public functions. This, too, must be said very strongly, because there are false or false information in public circulation that is being sold, repeated. So I want to cut it in a clear way here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u19	Does the senator want to clarify the question? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u20	I ad vocem. If you're denying it, I'm taking it, because that's the point of denying certain things. And that's what I've been asking about Mr. Falenty, too, is that you confirm or deny it. We didn't have any contact with Mr. Falenta at the CBA under the Pis regime, and you weren't our informant or co-worker, so to speak, you'll deny it, and it'll be clear. I asked if Mr. Falenta was cooperating with the CBA for the previous government and for this government. Do you deny or confirm that there have been such contacts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u21	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u22	Senator, I have already said, I have indicated that I cannot say anything on this forum about the co-workers of the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, either ex or current. That's from the laws of the law. CBA protects forms, operating methods and sources. There is, of course, a forum in which such information can be provided, but there are certain things that can also be said there. This is the Sejm Committee on Special Services. I can't answer the question of whether Mr. Falenta was a co-worker or not. I can only say one thing and it will, in my opinion, be a very important statement. Neither I nor Minister Kaminski were inspirers of Mr Marek Falenty's actions in recording public persons. I think that's a sufficient and legible statement. [[Yeah, but other CBA people could have been direct inspirations.]] [[The senator's gonna give himself permission...]] [[Excuse me. Senators, the question has been asked, the answer has been given. There may be further questions.]] There is one more thing in this regard. [[Please.]] This is very important. My statement, what I can say, is that there is no such thing as a violation of the law by CBA officers when it comes to cooperation with personal sources of information. There is no such thing, no such notification has been made before or now. I'm talking about cases of general cooperation with personal sources of information, inspiration, instigation. These are matters that the Office of the Interior explains and for which the prosecution or other departments may act on their own initiative. That's not the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u23	You're asking Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The Minister rightly mentioned GetBack, because 2 billion is a huge amount. However, I was astonished to find that there are 11 lines in the health report, and we are all seeing a drug crisis now. The drugs are missing. Rightly or wrongly, some say it is because of the reverse distribution chain. It's on page 20. It is said that the amount of this amount, and so it is supposedly less, is 2 billion PLN, and the state has achieved a success of 120 million in the case of some criminal groups from Bulgaria and the surrounding area. It seems... I have a request, but also a comment. That's the thing. vitally important for Poles and Poles. There can be no shortage of drugs. This practice does not result in a loss of PLN 2 billion but in continuous mode. It seems, especially when increasing the CBA's personal cast, that more attention should be given to it, because according to my humble knowledge Poland is here an infamous leader. There are many reasons for this, of course, and until the prices get even... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] Here's the question. Are you going to make this issue more important?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u25	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u26	Minister! I, too, look forward to answering the question of the infamous barn of former Minister Jan Szyszko. I'm from this constituency... From a distance you can see what is the big difference between the famous watch of Minister Nowak and the house or the barn of Mr Szyszko. This is, I have to tell you, absolutely unstoppable... I think it's a matter of a couple of million more. And now I'd have a question. I'm from West Pomerania. I'm sure you're familiar with the case... Maybe I'll say another way. On the stripes in Szczecin Television every day we have information about the huge melioration scandal and its spatter, and in the report that we have submitted today, there is not a word about it. Is this an important issue, an important issue that should be presented as one of the more serious offences or corruption phenomena, or did it not deserve to be included in this report? And the third question. In Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, it was recently done. It was such a loud case. The President's release. He was behind the trade unions, so I have this question: were you sure this was about exceeding the rights? 'Cause I just found out something... And is the CBA currently overseeing this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u27	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u28	Thank you very much. So when it comes to drugs, it's obvious that the problem is huge. This case, which I have said, has been carried out, this is one of the cases conducted by the CBA. I think you'll soon be able to hear about new things. This is one of the absolutely key areas of office activity. We appreciate the importance of these abuses occurring in the reverse supply chain. We know that many additional actions are needed here, but this is what we are doing. I can't say any more. I'm sure we take this case very seriously, this area. As far as Minister Szyszka is concerned, it is difficult for me to relate to the details here. I can give you a detailed answer in writing once I've checked it out. [[You're welcome.]] The watch case... Well, I'm not gonna comment on that. As you may have guessed, it's not just a matter of the watch, but it can, of course, be put together. I repeat: we will provide detailed information on this statement of property of the former Minister in writing. As far as the meliorative issue is concerned, yes, indeed, it is an important matter. We have not presented everything in the report because it has a certain capacity. This case was partly carried out also in 2018. At the moment, as you know, an indictment has been filed, among others. against Mr Gawłowski. All I can say is that it is about accepting the property benefits of several hundred thousand zlotys. . and instigation to be handed over property benefits. There, too, there is a breach of the powers, with the whole sphere connected with the procurement of meliorative works carried out by the Pomeranian and Western Pomeranian management. And that's an important thing. I think the court will settle this case now. The Central Anti-corruption Bureau led to a large part of the findings and evidence in this investigation, but not only did we work with the prosecution, including the Internal Security Agency. It's not listed in the report, but I think that doesn't mean we're taking this case... She's finished at some point, she's in court right now, like I said. As far as the release of the President of Jastrzębska Spółka Węgłowa is concerned, I confirm the fact that the CBA's investigative activities with the prosecutor's office have been carried out there. Well, I can't say anymore. The case is developmental. I apologize for this statement, but all I can say is that the case is serious and there will be further action in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u29	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u30	Thank you very much. Today I have actually a lot of these questions, but it's only because, Minister, I've been to a meeting with voters and now I'm asking what I should have asked. I just got an avalanche of these questions, and now I'm gonna ask them to you. As for my voivodship, which is Dolnośląskie voivodship, I would like to ask about 2 issues: the trash scandal and the PCK scandal. There were presumptions of political ties, i.e. Somewhere in the background there were various lower and higher-level politicians associated with the current ruling formation. I ask you this because when you first spoke here, we agreed on this and you spoke about it - I remember it very well and I took it well - that you realize that service like the CBA should first of all control its current situation, i.e. And those officials, and those politicians who are in charge right now. That's why I'm asking about these 2 issues - the garbage scandal and the PCK scandal. Have you examined the links between law and justice politicians and these two issues? The garbage case concerns the mayor, an illegal dump, and so on. The PCK scandal... Well, we all know, and we remember what it was all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u31	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question. Well, as we know, crime is increasingly moving to the Internet. In this connection, I have a question as to whether you have any statistics in your service, as crime is increasing in the field of the service through the Internet. I am referring mainly to the crimes related to documents and crimes related to the theft of funds, which, as we hear, can be carried out by electronic means, despite the safeguards used by financial institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u33	Is the senator finished? [[Yes.]] Then we'll ask Senator Klich for a question. Then there'll be three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll have three questions for the minister in one go. As recently reported by the Supreme Pharmacy Chamber from Poland, drugs are exported for about PLN 2 billion per year. There are currently about 500 different medicines missing from the market, and these are basic medicines for use with hypertension, with various neurological diseases, also medicines needed for oncology treatment. Some of this export is illegal. I would like to know what the office is doing about this illegal export of medicines from Poland. That's one thing. Secondly, the Minister has repeatedly stressed that when it comes to eavesdropping, it was not an inspiration. You used this phrase: we did not inspire the recordings in the restaurant of the Sowa and Friends. I'd like you to tell me when you found out that these recordings exist. After the publication of these materials by the weekly "Wprost" or earlier? Because it's important. Timing in this case is very important. Finally, Minister, the third issue is the matter concerning the implementation of the Police Act and the Services, which also entitles the Central Anti-corruption Office to observe the profiles of persons by means of a one-off agreement with the Internet Service Provider, i.e. the so-called. a rigid link, the services and police are not obliged to inform the provider that they are using this surveillance channel. I'd like to know... Are you able to present the statistics, what it looked like in 2018, which we are talking about today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u35	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u36	Thank you very much. As far as the two questions are concerned, Senator, I can only say that the matter of junk or in any way related to this area of abuse and violations of law are, of course, in the view of the Central Anti-corruption Office. I can't talk about the details, but it's not a topic that's beyond the interest of the Central Bureau of Corruption. I think that when the results come, you will be informed of this. I don't know about the PCK incident, in the sense that I can't answer right now. All I'm declaring is that we're prepared to give a written answer à about this. But I think it's another problem that's more medial than real. The rubbish scandal is, as I said, a matter of many actions, starting with some actual legal actions related not only to Lower Silesia, but to Poland at all. So we're definitely involved in this area. As for the question of online crime, I can say that this is a big challenge, and not just for the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, but for all the services. There are thefts in the form of physiing, various kinds of other forms of online fraud. There is a whole sphere of online currency, which is a great challenge, because here we are dealing with such a phenomenon that part of the turnover is moving into this area. And I'm not telling any secret, saying that criminal settlements, which is the phenomenon of money laundering, corruption settlements, are carried out by means of just We notice that online currencies and those transfers that take place online. We're trying to monitor it, but it's hard for me to present some statistics on this area right now. I'm sure it's that the services exchange information between themselves, the police are involved, too, but this is a challenging area. We see it, on certain matters there is such a modus operandi that the perpetrators and figurines use the Internet. However, we do not carry out the collection of statistical data strictly directed at this type of crime, because, as I said, theft is not part of the direct tasks of the Central Anti-corruption Office. When it's linked to corruption, to corruption crimes, we deal with it. I think it's more appropriate for the police here to have this general competence to prosecute. However, this is certainly a challenge and we can already see that this is a big problem. As for reverse supply chain cases, illegal drug exports, let me repeat that we know that this area, as the senator asked, is about PLN 2 billion, maybe more. These are huge profits. This is not the only issue that we have pointed out in the report. We have shown this because it has been implemented, there is a stage and we can tell the public about it. I can say this: we know how the perpetrators work, how they operate, how they transfer these drugs. Remember, this is the case that this illegal export is also often caused by fraud of benefits from subsidised medicines. By e.g. Introducing them into NZOZ gets a refund for the drugs refunded, which means it's a double fraud, right? It is not only that we drain the area of Poland from important medicines and as a result people do not have access to them, we are also extorting money from the State Treasury because these medicines are refunded. Well, we know how these mechanisms are created, and there are things that are going on right now. I can't say any more about this, but I'm sure it will be, and there's an area of office activity. As for the inspiration question you asked, let me repeat that we didn't inspire anyone, we just didn't know anything about it. All I can tell you is that knowledge in the wiretap area... that we learned about it when everyone, that's when the public found out. I don't want to talk about rumors, because maybe you've heard of rumors and stuff, but I'm talking about a real fact. I can say that we're basically no different from all the other people here, which means we've learned about this mass media thing. I don't want to refer to the rumors that came before. Once again, I would point out that we had nothing to do with this case. When it comes to profiling, etc., I may, Mr. Senator, try to recall one more given statistical, because this is not so much about observing profiles on the Internet as it can analyze Internet connections, i.e. so-called. the number of billings that we carry out, including the number of billings that the office receives, including, you can say, the number of pages disclosed, i.e. termination of calls, where the information is located. In 2018, 13 000 836 telecommunication arrangements were carried out, nearly 90% of them. cases have been obtained from electronic user lists or network terminations, including the processing by providers of publicly available telecommunications services in connection with contracts concluded. This is not a profile issue, because such an in-depth profile analysis requires the court's approval. Right? This is a kind of operational control. We can find out what the termination of the call is, which means who called whom, when and where he was, when he was in a given place. That doesn't require court approval. We can also find out who's connected to the website, and that's also possible. But we don't have access to the data stream. As far as access to the data stream is concerned, we must apply for the consent of the Attorney General and then, as a result, for the consent of the court, because this is already a form of operational control. The same is true in the case of image and sound recording. It's a very important thing, too, and it's worth knowing. The services have the right to record images and sounds in public places, and when it comes to a non-public place, it requires consent each time, because it is a kind of operational control, the consent of the prosecutor general, and then the application goes to court and, as a result, the final consent is given by the court. Like I said, 13,000 836 telecommunication arrangements. Operation Control, let me repeat, 856 requests. I don't know if it's... [[May I clarify, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u37	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u38	I'll be more specific, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you for reminding me of this report. I didn't mean telecommunications. I was referring to the analysis of the data stream to which you have access. So I'm going to ask you a question to make it easier for you to answer. Since every such operation of the service in accordance with the Act must be informed of the court, the district court, I will ask: how many such activities observing Internet profiles, data streams, were generally informed throughout Poland district courts in 2018? I think that's gonna make it easier for you to relate to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u39	Mr. Senator, the law says that the court has the right to demand service from those statistics that the service provides, certain data, those that it needs. Right? [[How much did you submit?]] I can give you a precise answer here... I can't give Mr. Senator the numbers right now, anyway, but I can tell you that the court hasn't questioned one of them, so... [[I'm just asking for statistics.]] Statistically, it's hard for me to relate to that. How many... I don't remember how many cases of this entire stream were controlled by the court. It's just that every time the court... [[I know, I know.]] ...requires several dozen... [[I know, I know the law...]] I think it's a row of greatness. [[...Determinations. Sure.]] I don't want to lie here. [[Mr. Marshal, I would like a written reply from the Minister on this matter.]] Of course. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u40	Right now, you're asking Senator Fedorovich a question. Before that, I would like to remind you that in addition to the answer for Senator Sztark, the Minister has committed himself to answering Senator Klich's questions in writing... [[And me, too.]] ...and Senator Zdrojewska. Yeah, she was mentioned, too. So we have three people. And now, Senator Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, here were the correct words of Senator Zdrojewska about the fact that the Central Anti-corruption Office should be dealing mainly with, it is obvious, problems that can be encountered in the womb, so to speak, rulers. So my question is whether the arrest of Mr M. and Mr K. and the third person is your success, CBA. Because they've been arrested, there's a case pending, Mr. M. has left the prison... If this is your success, then bravo, because you're doing your job. My second question is this. You've been gracious to tell me about Mr. Falent that he's been convicted, and the case is kind of closed because that sentence has passed. It's obvious and understandable that you can't tell the public about Falenty's ties to the CBA. But if you could comment... it's not part of the scope of that answer either... But if there's a belief in public opinion and circulation that an eavesdropping incident has led to a government change or a government collapse, then please tell me if this defensive man who's been arrested at the moment can't make an argument in his defense. Is that gonna happen? Because then the case would be completely clean. I don't want to continue because you know what the point of my question is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u42	Question. Mr. Senator, question. [[Thank you very much.]] Now you ask Senator Zdrojewska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u43	Thank you very much. I am very happy that the CBA will deal with the matter of garbage, because the explanation of the authorities on this subject, that everything is legal, that only legal garbage is sent to Poland... with such an increase in the flow from strange countries etc., it is impossible to control it, it seems at least strange... So it's a good thing the CBA took care of it. I would like to say that we should continue to deal with the import of coal from Russia. Okay, maybe so. I'll say it in general. 'Cause I think that's the kind of thing that we're going to be thinking about and talking about for years. There's one more thing. The case of the president of Jarosław Kaczyński. There was a request from the Civic Platform to examine the President's statement in the context of his participation in the company... of one of the companies involved in Silver. And then the CBA refused to check it out. Don't you think that since you worked at the Silver Company, it would be better to disengage from this, check out this statement and, for example, To say that everything in this statement is okay instead of refusing to take care of the case? And one more question, very specific: how many requests for anti-corruption shields from government or local government? I'm asking because there's been a lot of weird invitations to tender. I can replace them later. Or without tenders were bought e.g. Airplanes or something, there were huge transactions for large amounts, including the Ministry of National Defence. If there were no tenders, were you asked for an anti-corruption shield, and how many times? We know that this was the practice of previous governments, representatives of local governments or ministers often asked for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u44	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u45	Thank you very much. As far as the case referred to by your senator concerning the Polish Armed Forces Group is concerned, I would like to say that this is a matter taken from the beginning to the end by the Central Anti-corruption Office. I can say that the investigation was initiated in December on the basis of a notice of suspicion of a crime committed by the CBA control unit. It concerns irregularities in the process of concluding and implementing service contracts provided by external entities for the PGZ. As part of the audit activities in the PGZ, the proceedings of the members of the Management Board, their employees, economic operators and co-operating with PGZ, which led to the unfavourable regulation belonging to the group, were disclosed. After the collection of the procedural material, it was found that such irregularities occurred, among others. on the occasion of the conclusion of contracts for a total amount of PLN 10 million for the organization of the fairs.Pro Defense in 2016 in Ostróda, the organisation of a historical and artistic project, the concert "Voice of Liberty," the conducting of training, can be said to be the construction of a stand in PGZ in the International Defence Industry Salon in Kielce. The case isn't over. Arrested and arrested, among others. members of the board, as well as collaborators, Bartłomiej M., director at the Ministry of National Defence. We've done this case. We, of course, together with the prosecutor's office, but all the materials that have been collected in this case, were collected as a result of control, but also operational, undertaken by the Central Anti-corruption Office. You could say it's a case. 100% done by the office. This is also an example of the fact that we are looking at our hands. It's not the only thing like that. I'll remind you that we've stopped, for example. Former CEO of Lotos for carousel crimes. This is not just about the President appointed during the Civic Platform, he was already appointed during the rule of law and justice. We have arrested the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Azots, also for corrupt actions. These things are much more; as I said, they were e.g. arresting the chiefs of the IRS for the bribes they took. So it's not like the CBA is doing nothing but oppressive action towards, let's call it, the previously governing team or political opponents who run the local governments. That's not true. We're also looking at the biggest... Because the question was, how do we oversee cases related to the anti-corruption shield, the use of the anti-corruption shield? I said there were dozens of cases. Ladies and gentlemen, it is that the implementation of this procedure takes place in accordance with the old regulations already adopted by the previously governing coalition, i.e. we have a resolution of the Council of Ministers, and on the basis of this resolution the application is addressed to the Prime Minister, or in fact, it is now examined by the minister coordinator. And then he agrees to formally take over the anti-corruption shield procedure. We then deal with such an undertaking on the analytical, information and control side. In short, the company, the institution that demands such cover, presents us with the documents of the SWWZ, the OPA, the people involved in the committees, and we are investigating all this from the prevention side, engaging in such a project. I can say that more than 30 projects are being carried out at the moment. There's been a lot more than that. It is also so that a lot of them come to us outside of this formal procedure, so they go directly to our office, asking for this cover of a given project. And sometimes these things cross over. I was talking about 30 projects under this procedure, but some projects are not de-irre covered by the anti-corruption shield within this shield, as part of a procedure that is undertaken, but de facto this is all about the same thing. We have, for example. Special supervision of the project related to the construction of the polypropylene factory in the Police, we are also looking at the combination of Lotus and Orlen, and we have good insight into it. This is a very, very large transaction that requires a lot of action on different levels, legal, factual, etc. There are a lot of such cover projects for key investments in our supervision. I think we also have a good flow of information not only from Treasury companies involved in various projects at the interface between the public and private sectors. We also know about certain things that happen on the market even outside the public sector but having an impact on the economy as a whole. Coal from Russia is of course a problem, but we have a free market, so it is difficult to prevent entrepreneurs from realizing it, let's call it economic goals. As for the case of the president of Jarosław Kaczyński... This is a very important thing. The CBA didn't refuse to take care of the case. This message from the Central Bureau of Corruption, which we have transmitted within the framework of the so-called. The Silver case was not a refusal, it was merely a statement that there were no grounds for initiating a check. As I said, we are conducting a systematic analysis of statements by all parliamentarians, including the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, and on the basis of those analyses that we have carried out, we have concluded that there are no grounds and that there has been no violation of the Law on the limitation of conduct of business and no false declaration of property has been made. Because I will remind you that the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, in every declaration of property, gives the fact that he is sitting on the board of the Foundation and that sitting on the board of the Foundation is free of charge. The last asset statement also states that it had the relevant power of attorney transferred by the Silver Company to represent the company at the general meeting. So these elements are in a property statement, and there is no basis here to claim that this law has been violated. I will say that today there was an example of Mr. Marshal Struk. He also sat on the council of the foundation, only forgot several times... It was free to be clear. But Marshal Struk did not give it in his estate statement, and President Kaczyński in his estate statement from the very beginning gives this thing every time. So there's no doubt about it. I repeat: it is not a matter of not doing business by the office, regardless of the fact that earlier, for which the senator was gracious to pay attention, there was a time when I was not working in the public sector and serving the Silver Company. It doesn't matter. The Bureau simply performs these activities routinely. So it was just a statement that there was no basis for the control of the property statement. It's about the truth. And that's it in this area. I think that's all the things you've been asking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u46	You're asking Senator Shark a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u47	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna ask you about the anti-corruption shield anymore, but you gave me 30... Yes? [[Head of Ernest Beida Central Corruption Bureau: Thirty-six.]] Thirty-six. If I could ask you for information in writing... Okay? Because it's a pretty important thing. I'm sure a friend who asked me that, too, would love to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u48	Thirty-six projects. It's in the report. I can quote in writing the exact details of this... [[Yes, sir.]] ...but I repeat, this is not all activity...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u49	I'd really ask for details, because that's where that number is, and... I want to ask about the KNF case because the report does not say much. In fact, there is only: the KNF President's excess of powers. That's what you're referring to as the cause of the KNF investigation. However, we know that quite a lot of publicity has been given to the arrest of the former President, Mr Kwasniak, who - history we know - almost lost his life for his work. I'd like to ask if the arrest warrant for Mr. Kwaśniak was CBA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u50	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u51	Minister, I'd like to ask you about Mr. Falenta. I want to clarify the questions that have come up. Did Mr. Falenta have any contact with the CBA prior to his intent to eavesdrop, in connection with which he has a conviction? Did he have any contact with the Central Corruption Bureau before, during or after? I am not asking if he was a co-worker - because you would answer me as you did before, that you cannot disclose such information - but did you have any contacts? The second question concerns the statistics you presented. Self-government... In this table Here's a chart on the thematic areas of the preparatory proceedings launched last year. You write that this applies to 33 people from local government and 4 parliamentarians. Tell me... Divide it according to party membership. Can you do that? If not, I would like a written reply. What does it look like according to party membership? Are you fishing with a net, checking whether you're fishing with a fishing rod and a certain fish? You also say that 73 preliminaries have ended with the indictment and 72 have been dismissed. It follows that either the initiation of proceedings was not justified, or the materials you collected were not so incriminating that you could continue to do so. Would you mind responding to these two numbers? Why did 72 proceedings, including two conditional ones, be terminated? And could you name a few cases that have been dropped? That's it right now. I have a few more questions to ask, but that's later.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u52	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u53	Thank you very much. As far as the KNF case is concerned, as I pointed out in my previous statement, the case concerns a corruption offence committed by the former Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. She was obviously made on the basis of a notification made by one of the businessmen based on the recording. We did it with the D.A.'s office and the Homeland Security Agency. After confirming the authenticity of this recording, we immediately took action and brought charges against this person. In fact, it can be said that it was a few days, we were really just waiting for the opinion of experts from the Internal Security Agency's laboratory to be unambiguous in terms of whether there was manipulation of this recording. After examining the entire transmission the authenticity was confirmed, of course additional arrangements, searches were undertaken. The case is under way, it's hard to say more. As for the case of the former Vice-President, Mr. Kwasniak, this was a case led by the prosecution. In fact, in this case, I think we've just executed an order from the D.A.'s Attorney's Office on detention, it wasn't a case led by the Central Bureau of Corruption. However, I think it is worth referring to the prosecution's communication about this crime, or, in fact, it can be said, the crimes that were alleged to the former leadership of the KNF. It was about omissions related to the operation of the financial pyramid, or actually the transfer of money from the SKOKs, including from the SKOK Volomins. I would like to remind you that in 2012 it was the National SKOK Fund that notified KNF about the fact that this is the case. It was in August 2012. At the time From August 2012 to take management action, i.e. until October, it seems to be over a year No action has been taken and hundreds of millions of zlotys have been transferred from this register. We're running part of this case, too. As I say, her genesis is the notification of the National Bank. The fact that they took control of Volomin's SKOK, that the criminals had taken control of it, required the proper response of the supervisory authorities, and that was not the reaction. And that's why the charges are against me. Appropriate procedures should have been initiated, the Commission's Board of Directors should have been set up and resources should have been prevented. In this case we are dealing with losses on probably more than PLN 2 billion, including such transfers of money. The position of the Financial Supervision Commission in this area raises doubts about the prosecution's position. I repeat, this is none of our business, but these are the arrangements. It was believed that the conduct of the KNF headship at that time was far from... or actually fulfilling the statutory characteristics of the crimes. We've only handled this case in terms of detention, but the charges are serious. As I said, the charge against the former President, who was appointed later, is equally serious. It's about a corrupt proposal from a complex trader. This case was also handled by us together with the D.A.'s office. The case isn't over yet, we're looking at other threads in this case, including the side threads that the public had the chance to find out about in the press. I don't want to bring up the details here because I can't do it right now. All I can tell you is that with full insight and with the utmost care, the office and the D.A.'s office are leading this case. As far as the question is concerned about Mark Falenta, I can't talk about contacts, because that would be an indication of a possible fact of cooperation or lack of cooperation. I'll just highlight one thing. Well, of course, the media was wide-ranging about what this case was like. Marek Falenta himself says what these contacts looked like. But the important thing is that there are no cases, as I say, of overstepping powers, of fraud committed by Central Anti-corruption Bureau officers. There was a time because the case was exposed... As I said, the first press releases in this case were in June 2014 in There was time to check in detail the nature of Mark Falenty's contacts with all the services. Were they? What were they like? Did he come? What information did he provide? What was the response of the services to this information? Which turned into possible procedural, operational, etc.? Who was the inspiration? Who was behind this? There was a time, a year and a half before the election. After the election, the prosecution continued the case with the police, and the case went to court. I repeat once again: neither I nor, as I have already pointed out, those who are being spoken in the media Here I am thinking of the Minister of Coordinator and his deputy We had no contact with Mark Falenta. We didn't inspire anything about it. We didn't have any knowledge. Real knowledge, I stress. - about what this business is like and who's behind it. We learned about him, like all of you, from the media. I think that's the clear answer. As for the question of Mr. Marshal à about the party membership of these officers or those who perform public functions in local government and parliamentarians, we do not look at labels, party cards. I don't know who the party belonged to right now, who he was involved with. Of course, I can give you a detailed written reply. Like I said... [[Then give me a written answer. I don't mean names...]] Yeah, I get it. [[...only about statistics.]] It's very diverse. This year, it seems, we are in control, if I recall correctly, 4 parliamentarians are from Law and Justice, 1 is probably from outside. Last year there were more parliamentarians from the Civic Platform and PSL, and less, as I recall, parliamentarians from Law and Justice. I would also like to remind you that it was on the basis of the material of the Central Anti-corruption Office that we carried out the case of one of the senators concerning corruption. It was also a case based on our findings. This is the senator of the ruling option and many corruption crimes have been filed here... many charges have been filed. Well, that's also kind of proof that we're looking at the hands of those who have power.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u54	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u55	I will reassure you, Minister, that this is the last question, but it will be a little longer. Come on, come on, come on. I'm glad that the parliamentarians of the Law and Justice are... But there are also many smaller issues that the press is talking about, and so on. I'd like to ask if you've been investigating these cases that I'm about to mention here, if you have any completed cases. I mean the Polish National Foundation and the millions that have been spent, as it now turns out, contrary to the statute, on propaganda. The president changed there and there were other very strange expenses. Did you take care of it? VIP aircraft purchased without invitation to tender. Was there an anti-corruption shield in there? The matter of the clipping of the forest in the context of what happened to the wood cut out... with the wood left after the clipping. What about the financing of the Solidarity Congress of Poland? It's a known issue of illegal financing. Did you take care of it? What about the card scandal? So this is about the 2 million zlotys of spending on the charters of ministers, officials. Did you take care of it? What about the weasel thing and the collection? Did you take care of it or stop doing it? That was the last question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u56	Senator Grodzki is still on the list of questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u57	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. I understand you can't answer all of them, but... that's why one is very short. I am concerned about the growing imports of coal from Russia, which seems not entirely in line with Polish interests. Does the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, along with other services, monitor this subject? You can only answer 'yes' or 'no' 'cause I understand it's not easy to answer that. Second question. You mentioned yourself that the office is looking at the power of its hands. If I gave you $50,000 for a friend of yours and testified in front of the D.A., there'd probably be an investigation going on. Tell me why when a citizen of another country formally testified to the prosecutor that he had handed to one of the Members an envelope of PLN 50,000 for a friend of a priest for a favor, this subject is not being investigated at all by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u58	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u59	Thank you very much. Some of the things the senator mentioned, some of them more medial, but other things, of course. Like buying VIP airplanes... We were on this case, too, and it was covered. I can tell you the details because it's not a case that leaves... Besides, the purchase of not only these aircraft is also the subject of analysis, but also the comments of the Central Bureau of Corruption. I think that many other investments, including military ones, are in the area of office interest, in cooperation with the Military Counterintelligence Service. And as far as the Polish National Foundation is concerned, this is probably something more media-enhanced. Speaking of whether or not there were measures in line with the statute, I would remind you that the supervision of the foundations is exercised by the court. And the question of his possible assessment is whether or not there has been any abuse. I can say that I do not recall the fact that we are conducting a case when it comes to the Polish National Foundation. I may be wrong because things are a lot, but I don't think so. As for the clipping of the forest, I have no idea that we're going through any of the woods from the clippings of the forest about what was going on with that wood. The purchase of the collection of course was in the area of interest of the office. We've been doing cover operations there, and, like, checkpoints, we know the details, they've been reported. This case was subject to, let's call it, a particular assessment and an in-depth analysis. That's all I can say. As far as imports of coal from Russia are concerned, I, ladies and gentlemen, will say yes. As I have already mentioned, we have a free market and it is difficult, let's say, in the framework of the free market, to prevent companies from doing so in the form of imports. Well, if this coal is cheaper, if customs duties and all the other imports are paid... Well, we can't set fire duties and ban imports of this coal. Although I can say in this way: we are certainly dealing with cases where our interest, although perhaps not directly, is also imports, including coal from Russia. About what you asked the senator about the so-called case. The presentation in an envelope of PLN 50,000 is, as far as I know, handled by the D.A.'s office. This is not a matter that is beyond the interest of the organs. This businessman volunteered for the D.A.'s office. At the moment, the case is being investigated. This gentleman has been asked to provide additional documents. I don't know if he made such a statement that he handed over an envelope. This is a media release. Right? We're ready if the D.A. trusts us... Because there's a hierarchy here, too. If one authority is dealing with this matter, it is not even initiated, it is difficult for us now, at the moment when the proceedings are being conducted, to enter with our activity. All the more so that you can say that the case takes place in the raised courthouse, the public knows what the findings are and what kind of statements are, let's call it, statements are made. I don't know if there was such a statement that he gave. I don't think there's such a statement that he handed over 50,000 zlotys. Maybe there's something he tried to do, if I remember correctly, or that he wanted to. At least that's what he says, the businessman. I repeat, the case is handled by the D.A.'s office. I don't know any other evidence. I think if this investigation is entrusted to us, of course we will. It's not like we're running away from this kind of thing, but there's an order that needs to come out... and in that order, here's a pretty clear case, the prosecution is able to figure it out. I don't know at what stage or why... Looks like this businessman hasn't presented the financial documents translated, there's a problem with that. But it's not like the CBA's worried about this case. I'm sure we're not afraid of that, and there's no reason to believe that if the investigation is entrusted to us, we're not doing anything. Except it hasn't been initiated yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u60	The question is Senator Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, first of all, thank you for this comprehensive report. Secondly, I would like to ask a question which does not relate to the subject matter of the point, because it is a report on 2018, but because many senators have asked questions about everything that relates to your activity, I too dare to ask such a question and perhaps suggest it. Recently, in recent days we have seen such a clear increase in information about the supposed dramatic situation in the refunded drug market, the inaccessibility of these drugs and some terrible crisis that threatens the safety of patients. I've been analyzing why we're dealing with this phenomenon, and I have to say that with a little bit of suspicion before, today I've found that something is going on. On one of the medical portals there were 2 informations side by side: one about how different medicines are missing on the market, and right next to it was complaining about one of the pharmaceutical companies, which says how terribly the Ministry of Health pressures her to lower the price during negotiations in the Economic Commission. I have to say, it's all made up of some kind of painting. I understand that opposition politicians are picking up on such a thing that journalists live on, but I feel like there's actually a second bottom out there. My question is: are you interested in this issue? Of course I know you have yours, so to speak, an eye in the Economics Committee. But do you see a problem here, Minister, that's growing at the moment? And if not, is there any way to look at it? And, by the way, the second thing that comes with it. I think that some of us, the senators, especially those who care about health care, have received in recent days an invitation or a request for a meeting from an American company that produces one of the medicines used in cystic fibrosis. Well, I refused to meet you. I wonder like the other senators. But I also know that a conference on this disease is due in the near future. Well, officially in this request for a meeting was a request to discuss the problem faced by patients with cystic fibrosis in Poland. On the other hand, since something like this comes out of a drug company that is not refunded in Poland so far But I suppose there's a plan for this company. Isn't this all part of something that you're doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u62	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u63	Minister, two weeks ago, the bankruptcy was announced by Huta Częstochowa, and with regard to the former Huta Sendzimir, at the moment the ArcelorMittal Huta in Krakow, we are dealing with a reduction in production, which could lead to a significant reduction in employment. In both cases it is said that one of the reasons is to increase imports of steel into Poland from Russia, if I remember correctly, by about 260% compared to last year. This steel import to Poland from the Russian direction increases from year to year. Please tell me whether you are conducting proceedings in these cases concerning the legality or legality of actions in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u64	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u65	As far as Senator Radziwill's question is concerned, it is clear that this case in the background has its second or even third bottom. We're dealing with pressure from pharmaceutical companies. This is a very thoughtful, well-developed strategy, led by media activities, triggering certain issues, properly presenting them, exerting pressure... And, of course, the Minister had a chance to see for himself what it looked like. The pressure is exerted by various lobbyists who go to parliament, but also to the ministry, to particular agendas where, let's call it, the need for treatment or the introduction of a given drug is generated, so that... And this is, of course, supported by medical, ethical arguments, often presented with images with people who are ill, for example. for psoriasis, which is so dramatic. We have a small number of people who are sick, especially children. Often in the media... I've seen this footage lately, too. And then there are certain claims, demands against the government. This is, of course, supported by the fact that the absence of such actions will cause suffering, etc. In the case of health care, there is always suffering. You have to actually divide the resources, we see it. Surely our specialists and analysts, who cooperate with specialists of the Ministry of Health, discuss these problems. But that's what we're reacting to. I can't talk about everything, but I'm sure some of the issues that we're dealing with have a dimension, that's what's being evaluated by communicating information and making the right decisions. And kind of part of the problem with the parallel supply chain. It's absolutely... Apart from the fact that, of course, this causes market failures, these are obvious losses for large pharmaceutical companies. 'Cause you know it's all about the difference in prices. In the West, these drugs, also produced by the same companies, are expensive, they are cheaper with us, are of course refunded, at least some of them, some of them are not. Thus, exports are absolutely profitable. And it's against... There's pressure, we see it, there's lobbying. It's a phenomenon we're watching, monitoring. Every time... À about the introduction of a given drug... We can't, of course, control everything, but we see the elements of pressure and lobbying in the list of medicines refunded. It's a very sensitive part. and introducing new medicines, allowing them to be placed on the market. There's part of our activity here, too. We're working in this area. We absolutely see a huge amount of money that is generated based on drug turnover. There are 2 agencies operating at the Ministry, one introduces medicines, the other decides on refunds. I can tell you that we are constantly monitoring activity in this area. As far as Częstochowa is concerned, I can say here that the problem is known to us. Actually, it's hard for me to say more in a public forum. As far as increasing imports of steel into Poland are concerned, this is of course in the area of interest of the office in this context, that some imports may be subject to carousel offences, tax fraud, fraud. In this respect, we certainly have these matters in our sights. However, we are not from, as I said, analyzing the issue of the phenomenon, this is a matter of Decision taken by the Government What this phenomenon looks like globally. As far as imports of steel are concerned, we are looking at this rather from tax fraud, possibly corruption offences committed by customs and treasury services. The same applies to Russian coal. I don't know if it's... I'm sorry, I can't say any more in this formula when it comes to the Częstochowa Huta. [[But do you notice this problem?]] Yes. [[Are you leaning on it?]] That's really what I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u66	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask about the Polish National Foundation. My colleague asked if you were dealing with a case of wrongfully spent funds for pseudo-advertising the courts. Was that in defense of Polishness? I have a question for you. This question certainly would not have been raised if it had not been for the measures, and it was for the huge resources which are transferred from different economic operators, and it would have been for the state. If this national foundation were to hold on to its resources, it would be okay. Let the court only oversee the course or the way in which the funds are spent and the exercise of office. However, since these are our public resources, I think you'll find the CBA has a lot to say here. Are you doing this to any extent or definitely not, as you have already said? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u68	You ask the senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u69	Minister, you have detained a whole range of people, the presidents of the Treasury companies and members of supervisory boards, among others. Polic and Lotus Petrobaltic, as well as Kwaśniak from KNF and his then boss. In these cases, the court found that detention was not justified. So, do you analyze this situation, draw any conclusions? That's the first question. Two. With these stops you can see close cooperation with public television, with TVP. Do you have any agreements with public television that you're reporting possible arrests, giving a location, an hour? Or do you do it outside any contract? Do you decide and recommend whether or not you advise your officers to notify public television? Because in all these cases, at the time of detention, which the courts later assessed as unfounded, the materials appeared on television. I would therefore ask for an answer as to whether the CBA is cooperating with public television. Of course, there's no such prohibition, but I'd like to know. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u70	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u71	Maybe I'll start by apprehending the presidents of the Treasury companies. I said we kept the presidents too, let's call it, chosen by this team, members of supervisory boards, presidents. It's not like the Central Bureau of Corruption only conducts actions directed at the former presidents, elected, let's call it most generally, by the previous one... in connection with the previous team's government. As you remember, you asked me earlier about the audit we carried out in the State Treasury companies about the results of this audit. Detention and prosecution are the result of this audit. I will remind you that we have the charges presented to the former President of Lotus concerning the mismanagement of more than 200,000 PLN. If I may point out the matter of this agreement, I will say that the facts are as follows... [[Minister, I'm not asking...]] But no, it's... [[Mr. Marshal, you'll be more specific.]] [[...to be able to press charges, but to be apprehended...]] Yeah, why was he arrested, I was about to... Because what was the charge? The allegation of mismanagement was that an agreement was made with Mr Nowak's former assistant on the construction of strategic tanks in salt caves. Of course, no benefits under this agreement have been paid. The deal was about PLN 240 thousand. We interviewed witnesses, there was no evidence that this person was fulfilling any benefits under this contract. Well, it's an expense... in short, a misappropriation of public money. This agreement was directly concluded by the President of Lotus. It was not an agreement that the President did not know about, because it directly led to its conclusion, and that is the arrangement. We felt that there was a concern of motherhood, that the matter is serious, that it should be done properly and that the materials should also be secured. The person called upon in this regard may destroy, remove the evidence, so we have concluded that, due to the fact and circumstances of the misappropriation of this property, detention should be carried out with the prosecutor's office. The court found it unreasonable... There was also a request for temporary detention and the court refused temporary detention because the case was a few years ago. Another case, the case of Orlen's president, Orlen's former president. There was also a charge of embezzlement of property, in the case of the organization, this is also due to an audit in the companies of the State Treasury of events, let's call it events. It was two big parties, Verva Street Racing and Orlen Marathon. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it was not an unknown matter to the president, she was known. The charge of embezzling over PLN 3.5 million in the organisation of the Verva Street Racing event was made. The point was that Orlen did not claim more than PLN 3.5 million from the tickets. Of course, there was knowledge on Orlen's side and on the President's side that these are the funds that should be transferred by the event firm as part of the implementation of this agreement. Is that a big loss? One could say that in the formula of Orlen's operation, which is a great company No, but it's obvious to all of us that this is a very big loss. Right? Therefore, in our view, the charge is absolutely justified, and we have no doubt that the President knew how it was done. For the record, I'm going to show you a report on how much these events cost and how much they cost now. This is also a matter of how companies are managed. In 2015, Verva Street Racing cost almost PLN 10 million, and now, in 2018, it costs 3 million. Marathon Orlen in 2015 cost 14 million PLN, now it costs less than 9 million. So, as you can see, there are savings on each of these activities, probably also due to the fact that the presidents now do not forget, however, that the ticket charges go to Orlen. It's such a remark maybe a little pinchy, but showing a way of managing. Now, other charges against Enea's president. There was a purchase of an overhead line from Belarus, which did not function. It was bought from a Cypriot company, also for multi-million-dollar amounts, and not only did it not function, it was still leased to another entity The most important thing is that it's not transparent. The entire board of directors of Enea, including the president, was charged. The Police case. We are dealing with a number of activities of this company. The most rewarding is a contract with one of the African countries to extract... [[...phosphates.]] Phosphorates, yes. [[Phosphorites.]] Phosphorites, I'm sorry. It turns out that through one of the Polish companies... So, in short, the police didn't directly enter into those contracts, they were through the middleman. Cost The general cost, let's call it The turnover with this company and with the players in Africa are hundreds... over PLN 100 million. I'm judging here, I'm talking about it from memory, but I think it was a lot more than that. As a result, a mine was bought there, which had already been exploited. That's one thing. Secondly, a concession was bought, which was not to be bought at all, because the land was purchased, which was not intended for exploitation at all, for exploration. In addition, in a sneaky way, public opinion or authorities in the company were misled. The company was buying this stuff, talking about it buying it from its companies that are located in Africa, and it wasn't really true. And she has not yet paid to British suppliers. So this is the whole sphere, let's call it the most comprehensive management far from ideal. And that's what the CEO of this company was responsible for. He's been charged, he's been arrested, but that's not all. That's just part of it. The case isn't over yet. So, of course, as you can see... Finally, there is the case of PGE, one of the companies from PGE, which bought, in Przeworsk, devices which did not function at all, for more than 20 million PLN, and then it was sold at a loss. Here, too, the entire board has been charged. I think that each of these actions is supported by facts, findings. This follows, as I said from the audit, which shows how State Treasury companies were managed. But I want to make it clear that this does not mean that the Central Anti-corruption Office is currently not monitoring the management process of key companies. In my opinion, the example of PGZ is a very good example of the retention of the board, members of the board and the director of the Ministry of National Defence, i.e. figures, however important. We believe that this has a general effect, too. These activities are not to be overestimated. As far as the Polish National Foundation is concerned, as I said, I can check, but I think And I don't think I'm wrong. That we did not take action in this area. What I'm saying is that companies have their foundations at all. It is not a matter of transferring funds to only one Polish National Foundation, but there are other legal entities of this kind who operate, let's call it, non profit, supporting various charities undertaken, etc. As far as the Polish National Foundation is concerned, this case is underway, as far as I can remember. There's a dispute in court à about this. I can give you an answer in writing, so precise, but as far as I know, it's out of our interest. [[You're welcome.]] I think that's it. [[Thank you, Minister.]] [[Minister, I asked you to cooperate with TV...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Now, of course... [[...very close...]] Mr. Marshal, I'll tell you. When it comes to co-operation with television... we implement the whole information policy through our press office. It is not that we have any contract with public television or any other television. The fact is that we share some information with the D.A.'s office because the public should be aware of such actions. You also expect the results to be at least in this respect... We know we can't talk about operational activity because it's classified, but some things have to be said. The public, I believe, should have the right information à about what is happening on a case-by-case basis. And such a moment is the time for the process to be carried out, when we can announce what kind of charges have been made and what this results from. Important information may then be provided to the public. And I think this is part of the policy that should be implemented. She's being agreed with the D.A.'s office. There's no such thing as any TV... Here's the thing: whoever's interested gets the information, and whoever's not interested... Well, we have a free media market. Not all media are interested in this information. Some media don't show that information, they don't want to. Well, that's their policy. We don't have a special relationship with TVP or... I can say this: some journalists are interested in this and others are not, journalists are interested in various problems. But it's not said that we're not driving... The Bureau is actually in contact with all journalists, including those from the media, who, let's call it yes, criticize us. I'm thinking about the ones from the Wyborcza gazeta or TVN. We also have contact with these journalists, absolutely, come and exchange... Oh, one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. You can't give suppositions either. And there's been this kind of suggestion. That if a journalist comes to the press office of the Central Anti-corruption Office, he's a secret co-worker. This is, ladies and gentlemen, really... Such information appears in public circulation, perhaps sold by hostile journalists or some lobbyists. That's not true. We don't work with journalists secretly. There's no such thing, because there's just a ban on the bill. Of course, however, anyone can come to us in a clear way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u72	Thank you, Minister. I state that the list of questions has been exhausted. [[No, no, there's one more thing.]] Mr. Marshal has another one. But it's past recess, because I have a recess at 12:00. [[Oh, there'll be a break.]] You're the marshal who's gonna ask the question after the break, or are you gonna drop the question? [[After the break, Mr. Marshal.]] After the break, fine. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, let me just inform you that the Minister has committed himself to providing written answers to the questions previously asked by Senator Sztark and Zdrojewska, Senator Klich and Marshal Borusewicz. I would like to inform you that, following the interruption of the proceedings, we will proceed with the examination of the 17th paragraph: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Road Traffic and the Road Transport Act. Dismissed until 12:30. I invite you now to open the exhibition of the Vistula River in the economic, social and environmental context in the lobby on the ground floor. The next item on Central Corruption Bureau's information will be after recess at 12:30. Thank you, Minister. [[Head of Ernest Beida Central Corruption Bureau: Thank you very much.]] [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 03 to 12 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. I'd like to invite the Minister. We are back to discussing item 25 of the agenda: information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's operations in 2018. Would any of you senators like to ask the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office another question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u73	Minister, we know about the proceedings concerning a declaration of property that is pending against one of the senators, but in the case. This is a normal matter and, of course, I am not referring to the legitimacy of this procedure. But I found out that in the course of the CBA hearings, the officer said that she didn't consider whether or not she should take into account the corrections to the statement of property. Corrections are made by senators and Members and there were no such reservations... These adjustments concern e.g. A situation where someone remembers something or misinformed it. Such situations occur, especially among new Members and Senators. This will be the case in the new term of office, because the forms of these claims are very vague. E.g. value of housing or real estate. Any such value can be questioned because there is no rule that... Whether it's an expert opinion or a value to buy, which I think is appropriate, because you're investigating not whether someone is rich or poor, but financial flows. Corrections have been customary since the beginning of the statements, they have been accepted for many years by the marshals. And that's why I'm asking you, Minister, is this some kind of individual attempt to interpret, or is that also your position? I would like to say that if this were the position of the CBA, it would be a serious problem for many parliamentarians. I also think that for an opinion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm almost done. That's my question. But, of course, you know very well that the forms of these statements are very vague and, therefore, there may be different interpretations when they are completed. And I see that the CBA is kind of trying to focus on the various issues with statements. It was, I see, with a lot of people who have problems. The problems are related to compounded claims of property.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u74	Are you finished with the marshal? [[Yes, thank you.]] Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u75	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Marshal, explaining the matter, that's how I want to say it. Of course, the law does not formally provide for an institution such as correction, and practice clearly indicates that such adjustments are appropriate. I don't know what that officer or officer's opinion looked like. It is such that the statement of property is always assessed for the truth and also for certain intentions. In other words, although the law does not provide for an adjustment, it is applied in practice. If someone has forgotten - this is a human thing - or was imprecise or did not know, it is not subject to criminal review. Always this kind of doubt − someone's forgetfulness or lack of knowledge − is considered to be a case in favour of a person who is obliged to make a declaration of property. Despite the fact that the law, as I said, does not formally foresee such a correction, it is acceptable and is then judged in terms of whether someone actually forgot, did not know, was mistaken or consciously hidden certain facts, and by making a correction is now trying to sanitize this state of affairs. This is always assessed in the context of any liability. And, as I said, the interpretation is always in favour of the person obliged to make a statement. So all the doubts that make us not know... I don't want to mention the most extreme case that someone there will forget about the plane - this is a thing from the past... I repeat, we're judging this case from the point of view of... In order to charge someone, we need to demonstrate on the subject's side the intention, which is the deliberateness of acting in a direct intention. Right? Therefore, there is no question, as I said, of some negligence, even due to recklessness or ignorance. And only in this context is it interpreted. Although, as I repeat, the law does not formally provide for an institution to correct, but it is submitted in the sense that someone can say that they did not know or forget. And that's also rated. So in this context... There is, of course, a matter of impreciseness. I have already talked about this and I will repeat it again: we are preparing a new form for a property statement, which will be uniform for everyone, so that these doubts are as small as possible. I don't want to say that they're not at all, because it's probably hard to expect. I would like this to be subject to a wider consultation, of course, also with you. Even before, let us say, the legislative process is formally given, a draft of such a statement can be made available to the public so that a broad discussion can be held. That's a big problem. Other countries have dealt with it. They have uniform statements. This is a major challenge for us, and this is one of our priority tasks under the government's anti-corruption programme. There was a bill, like I said, that fell, that wasn't procedated. As part of this project was also presented by the Minister of... We want to try it now. Even if we don't carry out comprehensive regulation, because this one also applies to whistleblowers and certain other things... It was envisaged that the activity of the public should be restricted, so called. extended anti-corruption law. If not complex, at least in this respect. Because this is very important and we understand the importance of problems related precisely to the carelessness and confusion of certain wordings contained in the form or forms. Yes? Because it's theirs, I guess, I don't know if it's 20 different. So it certainly needs to be harmonised. And this is important, what I stress once again: interpretation in favour of the obliged person. It's not that we're looking for, let's call it, an excuse to charge someone or to say that he acted intentionally, that he lied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u76	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u77	I wanted to ask you a question about that, but you already said you were working on the form. Don't you think you need to focus on financial flows and changes in financial position rather than on one or another of the values of housing, home? Because it's important to know if there were any additional tides during the function. I'm not talking about the drains because the drains are different. Anyone can lose their own money and lose it as they please. But of course, what I'm talking about is important. I'm glad you have experience at CBA, you're working on it. I hope that the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, who take this and analyze it as the right actors, and our committees will be able to bring something, because there are attempts in the Senate and in the Sejm to clarify these forms of statements which are not good forms.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u78	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, about the financial flows... It is clear that knowledge of these flows is crucial, and not only in the control of claims of property. But I'll pay attention to one thing. There's a law that says there's a certain protection of individuals against unjustified interference of services in their bank records. Here, of course, I speak from the position of someone who reaches out to this data, but this is important and I wanted it to be a distinction. Well, what else is, let's say, tracking financial flows between companies and something else... Because senators and Members are natural persons, right? Therefore, in order to obtain data from financial flows, we need to request permission from the court and only after the court has agreed can we do so unless the person concerned agrees to do so as part of the audit. So we don't follow the financial flows of individuals, because it would be a violation of law and banking secrecy. But we can compare... Unless there is other information that allows us to initiate the appropriate procedure so that these financial flows can be determined. However, as a rule, we are only formally initiating a review, and we are making a request to the court... If the person agrees, then we have the opportunity to verify and determine these flows, and if not, then we are in court. This is also a big problem, because there are over 100 banking and financial institutions, and we need to get approval regardless of where someone has an account, and we don't know that, and that's also a problem. In any case, we analyze the flows when we formally initiate control, unless, as a result of other operational activities, we gain such knowledge, because this may also provide a reason for such control to be initiated. There have been inspections, e.g. At the request of the prosecution, because it was based on investigative actions, even conducted without our participation, that such scrutiny should be carried out. Nothing will change here, because as far as individuals are concerned, we are also in the position that interference in the flows of natural persons, however, should be subject to the consent of the court, i.e., in short, knowledge in this area may be obtained after the agreement of the court. What else are the flows between companies. We are in favour of this solution, and this regulation is already in force. To a large extent, it will help us to prosecute various crimes: financial, carousel, corruption, etc. I'm glad it's in place and in force. In my opinion, Poland is the leader compared to other developed democracies, and here I am thinking about the western countries: Great Britain, France, Germany. These regulations are really very good, they meet the European Commission's directive, which is a guideline on combating money laundering crime, combating terrorism, not to mention the fact that tracking financial flows between companies is a key issue. So this regulation is absolutely very good. Like I said, when it comes to individuals, there's always a court order. I don't think that's gonna change. However, there is a matter of assessing the assets for a given day. If there are doubts, then, of course, it is possible to instruct the tax authorities to check whether there are cases of possible tax fraud. Well, we can do that to a certain extent, check it out, only from high altitudes, but we can also set something up and pass it on to, say, making the right decisions or handing it over to the DA's office to investigate. That's what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u80	Thank you, Minister. Are there any further questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, sir. [[Head of Ernest Beida Central Corruption Bureau: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that Minister Ernest Bejda, Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by the following States Senators: Sztark, Klich, Zdrojewska and Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Thank you, Minister Ernest, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's operations in 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Road Transport. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1199 and the report of the Commission in print No 1199 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u81	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present a report on the committee's meeting on the opinion of the draft amendments to the Road Traffic Law and the Road Transport Act. The Act was adopted on 13 June 2019. The aim is to implement into the Polish legal order the Directive of the European Parliament on road technical inspection concerning the ability to drive vehicles moving within the Union and repealing the Directive of 2000. The 2014 Directive regulates issues relating to the technical roadside inspection of vehicles carrying out road freight and passengers, more than 9 persons including the driver and the carriage of goods exceeding 3.5 t. Of course, this applies to commercial road transport vehicles. The proposed law aims to improve road safety, improve the technical status of vehicles and reduce emissions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 requires drivers to have and demonstrate during the roadside inspection of the most recent technical inspection. On the other hand, drivers of vehicles registered abroad are required to have a document confirming that they have carried out technical tests in their country. The Chief Inspector for Road Transport, in agreement with the Chief Police Officer, shall plan and organise preliminary technical checks on vehicles to cover at least 5% the total number of vehicles registered in the Republic of Poland. Controllers may, on the basis of the results of the initial roadside inspection, direct the vehicle to a detailed roadside inspection. This detailed check can be carried out both at stationary technical inspection stations and at mobile stations. Controlling training is carried out by road transport inspectors, police officers, chief of the Szczytno University of Police, commandants of Border Guard units and the director of the National Treasury School, of course everyone in terms of their properties. This law was passed by the Sejm at its eighty-second meeting on 13 June. As I said before, it comes from a government proposal. This project was adopted by the Sejm. 421 Members took part in the vote, the bill was adopted with one vote against and two Members abstained. On behalf of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u82	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Minister Rafał Weber, like to speak on the bill under consideration? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present some general information on the Law on amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Road Transport Act. The purpose of the Act is to implement Directive 2014/47/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the technical roadside inspection of the airworthiness of commercial vehicles moving within the Union and repealing Directive 2000/30/EC. The subject of the regulation of the Directive is the technical roadside inspection of vehicles designed and constructed for the carriage of persons in excess of 9, including the driver, of vehicles M2 and M3; vehicles intended for the carriage of goods of a maximum total weight exceeding 3,5 t, of vehicles N2 and N3; trailers of a maximum total weight exceeding 3,5 t, of vehicles O3 and O4; and tractors of wheeled categories T5 used by the public for the carriage of goods. The Act provides for the following amendments. Firstly, the possibility of carrying out detailed technical roadside inspections at mobile road inspection stations and designated road inspection points. Secondly, the obligation for the driver carrying out road transport to have the current road technical inspection protocol, if any. Thirdly, introducing an obligation for the Chief Road Transport Inspector, in agreement with the Chief Police Commissioner, to plan and organise preliminary roadside inspections of the technical status of vehicles which are subject to the regulation of the Directive in such a way that the total number of these checks covers at least 5% each year. the total number of checks on vehicles registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Fourthly, the obligation for controllers to have detailed technical checks carried out by road for appropriate training and qualifications. Fifthly, the extension of the application of the risk assessment system as regards the number and weight of deficiencies detected in the categories of vehicles covered by the Directive. Sixthly, the possibility of exchanging information between the Member States of the European Union concerning the finding of serious or dangerous defects or defects in the vehicle leading to the restriction or prohibition of use of the vehicle. The implementation of the Directive will allow the Road Transport Inspections to cooperate with the competent control authorities of another Member State in coordinated roadside inspections of the technical airworthiness of vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u84	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1222, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1222 A and 1222 B. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to present a report to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and then to the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As Mr Marshal said, on 9 July both committees, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, discussed the draft amendment to the Act on the monitoring of road and rail freight transport and certain other laws. At the meeting and one and the other committee, the Minister presented the amendments which are proposed. They come down to 2 areas. The first area is intended to seal the tax system for the trading of fuel oils and diesel fuels for fuel purposes. The second amendment is to replace the obligation to obtain paper fuel oil declarations for heating purposes by an electronic system. Both for entrepreneurs and for the authorities, this obligation was burdensome due to the number of documents he generated. As I said at the outset, this is not only a change of this one law, but also other laws. The amendments are also made to the excise duty law. The amendment of these 2 laws implies, in turn, changes in the tax administration, the Tax Tax Act, the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, the Police Act and the Road Transport Act. Following the information received from the Minister, the Legislative Bureau presented its opinions at both meetings of the committees. These were, of course, the same opinions. The Legislative Office proposed 4 amendments, 3 of which were immediately taken over, consent was given immediately and accepted by the Minister. And the fourth amendment proposed concerning the transitional period, following joint consultations, took on a new wording and was also accepted by the Ministry. Mr Pekkis took part in the discussion during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, which did not directly refer to the law, but to the new powers which are given to the various offices. The two committees then, of course, each separately, took part in the vote. All 4 amendments were unanimously accepted: in the first committee 3 votes in favour, in the second committee 8 votes in favour. Later, we voted on the bill in full with the amendments adopted and the result was symmetrical, i.e. the first committee adopted it unanimously, with 3 votes in favour and the second with 8 votes in favour. That is why both committees are asking the High House to adopt this law with the amendments adopted. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u86	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister Piotr Dziedzic from the Ministry of Finance is with us. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Dziedzic: No, thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? [[No, no one.]] No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1197, and the report of the Commission In print No 1197 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 25 June, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy discussed the law amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes, print No 1197. The aim of the Act is to implement the so-called. the IORP II Directive, i.e. Directive 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. It aims at minimum harmonisation of rules on the supervision, management and organisation of institutions for occupational retirement provision, facilitating the mobility of workers between Member States of the European Union, regulating cross-border activities and facilitating the coordination of supervisory practices of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. The course of legislative work in the Sejm looked so that the draft law, the government project, the second reading took place on 12 June, and on 13 June the Sejm passed the law. It has been adopted with more than 50 amendments. The Sejm voted in such a way that 428 Members were in favour and 4 were against. During the work in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the legislator spoke and the Senators Augustyn and Rulewski spoke on the bill. The legislator did not actually have any major recommendations on the amendments, but merely said that there were difficulties in translating the Directive into the correct language present in our legislation. The conclusions of Senator Rulewski and Augustine concerned the possibility of extending the vacathio legis law. Finally, in the vote, the senators of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee adopted a proposal for a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u88	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Ladies and gentlemen, we have information that the Minister is on his way. So I'm running a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 02 to 13 minutes 13]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Marcin Zielenecki, like to take the floor and present the position of the government? No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do you senators want to ask such questions? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that after point 14 we will consider point 16, i.e. the law on amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and certain other laws, and then we will move on to the 15th point. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act The text of the Act is contained in print No 1205 and the report of the committee In print No 1205 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Krystian Probier, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a proposal for amendments to the Act on Nuclear Law and the Fire Protection Act. What was the purpose of this proposed law? First of all, it was about implementing the basic safety standards in our law against the risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation, as well as the implementation of the 2014 Council Directive on the Community framework for nuclear safety of nuclear installations. This is also in some way the result of the assessment of the existing legislation, issued after the nuclear disaster in Fukushima, which we all know, where the earthquake resulted in a tsunami that threatened the operation of the power plant. As we know, this power plant was secured at a height of 6 m, but the wave was higher. I must say that the law in place is, as it were, a pre-emptive act, because in our case, as far as these large objects are concerned, there is only a research reactor called Maria Curie-Skłodowska named after the Maria Curie-Skłodowska plant with a heat output of 30 MW. Since 1995, it has been the only reactor operating simultaneously as a reactor for research purposes. And as far as the power plant is concerned, this power plant is rather virtual. But the money that the minister was collecting was already real. Between 2009 and 2014, over PLN 180 million was spent on this power plant, which nobody knew about, and nobody heard anything. I would like to point out here that the European Commission has implemented the BSS Directive, the Basic Safety Standards. The issues covered by the proposed law concern three groups of issues: those that do not need to be amended; those that need to be amended; completely new solutions introduced into our legal order. These issues, which have not yet been regulated in Polish law, are primarily issues related to exposure to radon in residential buildings and workplaces, issues related to the use of naturally occurring radioactive materials, as well as the introduction by the Directive of an additional form of regulation of activities with exposure in the form of so-called. notifications. In view of the above, the Act proposes inter alia. I am saying this because these proposals are very much in my opinion, so I will allow myself to present only the most important levels of reference for external exposure, effective doses, average annual radiation concentrations of radon in the air, as well as exposure of people from the general public in the event of a radiation event and an existing exposure situation; adaptation to the requirements of the BSS Directive; extension of the obligation to apply dose limiters to persons of the general population; subject to the obligation to provide training in the field of radiological protection of members of emergency teams; further, to prohibit the carrying out of exposure activities involving the activation of materials added to toys or personal ornaments resulting in an increase in their activity, and to import or export such toys or personal ornaments. Further: to establish a list of permitted non-medical imaging situations broken down by non-medical imaging using medical radiological equipment and other radiological equipment. It seems important to me here to introduce an obligation to measure radon concentrations or potential alpha energy concentrations of short-lived products of its breakdown. I would like to point out that radon is a noble gas, a product of radium decay. As a geologist, I can say that this is particularly important in areas where granite rocks occur. It may be said that this radon is the second cause of lung cancer after smoking. And that is what I wanted to tell you, also paying attention to the importance of these regulations. Further: it is proposed to lay down rules for the radiological protection of aircraft crew members exposed to an effective dose; introduce requirements for new uses of ionising radiation including medical exposure; lay down additional requirements for medical experiments and clinical trials using ionising radiation. Among these proposed changes is also the imposition on the main inspection of the sanitary obligation to carry out activities aimed at identifying areas where, in a large number of buildings, the level of the average annual radiation concentration of radon in the air may exceed the reference level. The aim of this law is also to regulate other issues which need to be improved in the field of nuclear safety and radiological protection. I am referring to the modification of the national system of planning and emergency procedures in the event of a radiation incident, the introduction of strategic planning for the country's nuclear safety, the definition of reasons at the statutory level for dismissing the President of the Agency and the introduction of a term of office of that authority. I would also like to point out that the proposed amendments will, on the one hand, strengthen the nuclear safety and radiological protection system in Poland and, on the other hand, implement the mission recommendations related to this radiation protection activity. The amendment also provides for the amendment of the Article. 14 Fire Protection Act, which extends the tasks of the national fire-fighting system to take part in the eradication of the threat, including rescue operations in the event of a radiation incident. It is proposed that this law should enter into force 30 days from the date of the announcement. In the case of Article. 2 It is proposed that it enter into force on 1 January 2020. The Act is subject to notification to the European Commission. The bill was a government project. I would like to remind the High Senate whether or not to draw attention to the fact that the draft passed with 405 votes in favour and 2 votes against, 1 abstention in the Seym. I propose that the Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u90	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Minister of the Environment, wish to speak and present the position of the government? [[Thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. [[Professor, congratulations. That's a great performance.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1223, and the report of the Commission In print No 1223 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister with accompanying persons! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I have the honour to submit a report on the Act amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 4 July 2019. The Commission, following its meeting on 9 July this year, asks the Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution, i.e. to adopt a law without amendments. The committee was sitting very quietly. We have examined this very important document, which implements 4 EU directives. This is so important that all these actions, taken also by this law, lead to improved air quality in Poland. It is important to stress that the Sejm 412 votes in favour and 1 member abstained and there were no votes against. In order to understand the importance of this document. Maybe I'll just give you the most important issues raised in this bill. The rules for fixing emission allowances during the trading period starting from 2021 are changing. The amendments adopted concern the accounting of investment costs of the specific tasks included in the National Investment Plan. The procedure for examining applications for emission allowances from the reserve is simplified in order to reduce the administrative burden on the operator. The Act imposes an additional task on the National Emission Balancing and Management Centre to develop periodic forecasts of changes in activity for individual sectors of the economy. The competent minister shall determine the assumptions of the forecast for the sector concerned and shall provide the national centre with relevant information and data. There is a basis for preparing a National Air Pollution Reduction Programme, which is the main tool to help achieve these 5 emissions reductions. A very important aspect in the regulated area is agriculture, which is to a large extent responsible for emissions of ammonia into the atmosphere. About 94% emissions come from agricultural activities. In order to reduce these emissions, new obligations and sanctions for non-compliance with them are introduced in the Fertilisation and Fertilisation Act. A legislative delegation shall be introduced for the Minister responsible for Agriculture to draw up a code of good agricultural practice for reducing ammonia emissions. The Act should enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Please, in accordance with the intention of the Committee on the Environment, to adopt a draft resolution, i.e. a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u92	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Henryk Kowalczyk like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u93	We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1230 and the report of the committee In print No 1230 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Minister, with accompanying persons! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 4 July amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws. This law, although its content may not be as complicated as in the previous laws, has aroused great interest in both local governments and entrepreneurs, but also producers of plastic packaging and representatives of other communities involved in maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities, in other words waste disposal, especially municipal waste. This subject has been heavily analyzed for a few weeks. When a draft of this law appeared, and the bill was from the government's submission, and when it was proceded in the Sejm, some comments were reported, which were taken into account by the government, but the result of the parliamentary vote was 250 votes in favour, 142 against, and 26 Members abstained. At the committee meeting there were 13 amendments which were accepted by the committees. Some of the amendments tabled were not accepted by the committee, and these were amendments of a different rank, ranging from ordering amendments, legislative amendments to amendments amending the provisions of the bill which came to the Senate from the Sejm. I must say that at this meeting there were dozens of people from different backgrounds who had the opportunity to comment and comment. All comments were made by Minister Henryk Kowalczyk present at the committee meeting. Some of these comments were taken into account and two government amendments were proposed and adopted by the committees thereafter. They are attached in the report, so that you can read about them there and see all the details. I will not discuss every amendment because they are very detailed. I think the interested parties have read these amendments. I would like to ask the High House to adopt this law together with the amendments that are in the committee's report. But I would also like to make on behalf of the chairman of the Environment Committee of Zdzisław Pupa and my own 3 amendments, which are accepted by the government. I think that's it. I'm sure some senators will want to speak in the discussion, so I'd like to invite you to the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u95	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any calls like that. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Henryk Kowalczyk like to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In two sentences I will talk about the most important purpose of this law. The amendment to the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities is primarily intended to market waste management after being collected by the municipalities. The current system has created considerable risks of monopolising the waste management market, hence, among others. in recent years, significant price increases, unjustified other factors such as: increase in energy, increase in labour costs or others. This increase in prices on municipal waste treatment facilities was due, we assume, to a monopolistic approach in these installations. Therefore, this law releases to a large extent the waste management market so that it is possible to freely dispose of municipal waste which has been collected in municipalities. At the moment, due to either the lack of limits or the absence of installations that have been designated in the regionalisation process, it is not possible to process these wastes, therefore, in the few remaining installations, there is a tendency to raise prices. It is as if the main reason and the main motivation for amending this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u97	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. In connection with the release of the supply of waste not only to the regional customer but also to the incineration plant outside the designated region, are there any clear financial consequences for the local authorities? Did the Ministry investigate this? Because it somehow affects waste management plans.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u99	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mrs. Senator, such financial consequences for local governments are expected, of course, to be positive, because at a time when we have limited possibilities to deliver waste or to regional installations or to incinerators, the lack of a market and the potential for development increases prices. The release of this market should result in price realization, i.e. a reduction in prices.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u101	Minister, I have two questions. First. I remember when we worked 10 years or maybe a dozen years ago on such a law, it was a tendency to create regional centers and therefore a tendency to centralize so that these centers have the right amount of waste. Is this concept even out of date? Was she wrong? Because you're talking about decentralisation right now. That's the first question. Second question. You're saying there's been a monopolization of monopolization, which, by the way, was supposed to be in connection with these regional centres. But tell me why, if there's a monopolization, you're suggesting that you demonopolize it in such a way that you're betting on mechanical and biological waste treatment. Well, a change of law in this record indicates that. After all, investments were therefore made, costs were incurred for mechanical and thermal processing, mechanical and biological processing, for the drying of waste, etc. In this situation, when new available waste treatment technologies are deleted... Because it was such a gateway, and I remember discussing this bill and this recipe. It is as if these other forms are eliminated and the mechanical-biological treatment of waste remains. Is my analysis wrong? [[There's still incinerators.]] There are still incinerators, of course, but the other ones that... There was this gate written down here. From a licensing point of view, this was not a good solution. Well, how do you say other people are allowed... Okay, but is this gonna result in the other ones being eliminated, which is, once again, mechanical-heated, mechanical-biological, by drying the waste? And what about those devices that worked? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The deletion of the entry on new technologies available for municipal waste results from the fact that we have obligations under the European directives which set the target level for waste management. At least 65% of the waste stream should be recycled and this is the volume which would be impossible to achieve if existing forms of incineration of mixed municipal waste were preserved. These installations, which so far operate, of course, have the right to be preserved Here I refer to the durability period of the project. Burns that burn mixed waste will, of course, be able to burn residual waste, first, and secondly, energy fractions after a selective collection. The point is to limit the direct incineration of mixed municipal waste, because at a time when this gate would be completely open, as your marshal has said, we would have no chance of meeting the requirements of the European directive, of achieving this level of recycling. So at this point, we're trying to make the recycling rate at least 65%, the combustion rate. Not more than 30% , and of course the level of storage of not more than 10%. This is the target waste management model. If we did not keep these parameters, we would be exposed as a country to financial penalties. The deletion of these new available technologies is intended to help achieve this objective. This, of course, will progress gradually. These possibilities will be limited with new installations, but this is possible with existing ones. Once again, I stress that thermal transformation or incineration of waste is possible, but in this second phase, i.e. after selective collection, after segregation, either as residual waste or as energy fractions. On the other hand, mixed municipal waste... At this point we will strive, serve it, among others. that provision so that they are not directly burned in their entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u103	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there is so much pressure in the world right now on plastic bags and all these packages. I have to say, when I go shopping, I go with a paper bag. [[That's a long time ago.]] [[That's very good.]] Thank you for your appreciation, Minister. Just tell me, because it's very important to the public, if there is, for example. Something like there's a lobby of plastic bags manufacturers... [[Of course.]] ...who would want to stop this action. Did you talk about it at the committee meeting? [[Fedorovich supports the paper bag lobby.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u105	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Of course, the pursuit of this goal is still valid. At the same time, any absolute bans, such immediate, usually have no effect. That's why there's one thing in this bill. the proposal to extend the recycling charge to all foil bags, except, of course, the thinnest ones that are used for direct food packaging, i.e. in this law we increase the range of plastic bags covered and will cover not only those that have so far been, i.e. between 15 and 50 micrometers, but also those that have more than 50 micrometers. This fee is to gradually discourage the use of foil bags. I do not exclude that there will be a moment when there will be a total ban, but the industry must also have time to adapt and gradually reduce potential production. Of course, educational activities in this area will reduce their use. Perhaps in a few years we will come to such a state that we will say: the end of plastic bags, as many countries have done, with Kenya at the head, which was loud, but also with Austria. Of course, we want to grow to this level.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u107	Thank you. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you, Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[You've signed up for the president.]] Who volunteered? [[I volunteered.]] [[But that's what you have to come up with and...]] I'm sorry, Senator, I wasn't looking towards you. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka has come forward for discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about this law. A very detailed report has been submitted to you by Senator Alicia the Hare. We, of course, discussed this in committee for a very long time. The case is complex because this law must meet the needs, provide the municipality with the opportunity to maintain a good order, but also not to take away the opportunity to earn to others who, in this interest, so name, also want to work. Nevertheless, there are two groups of posts. One is that waste management should only be the responsibility of the municipality, and this municipality should ensure that waste is carried out by the entities that the municipality will select in the tenders, and the other group, let's say, other bodies, especially entrepreneurs, say that this cannot be the case, because you are taking away the opportunity to pay us. What a community, such problems, but there are some things that could still be improved in this law, and in the discussion with local government, I have committed myself to making 3 amendments. One of them concerns the rules of procedure, which defines the board, which is to say what waste management in the municipality is to look like. The second amendment concerns the amount of pollution levy, and here it is also possible to set a levy depending on the amount of water consumption. And one more amendment. If it passes, it will oblige the Minister responsible for the environment to define in the Regulation the detailed criteria for establishing that municipal waste is not collected in a selective manner, on the basis of the need to make it clear that the waste is not collected in a selective manner by the owners of the property. That sounds a little incomprehensible, but the Minister knows what's going on. So I'm making these amendments to your marshal. [[How many of these amendments are there?]] In fact, that's three amendments. Of course, we accept those amendments that were made jointly at the meeting of the local government committee and the Committee on the Environment. I know that in the Seym the opposition party was against this bill or abstained. We would very much like to support this law because we care about good waste management. I hope that we will discuss something further at the committee meeting that will take place after this reading of the bill, and then we will make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u109	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Alicia Zając and Senator Zdzisław Pupa together and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. The discussion is closed... [[Senator Alice Hare: I now put up another one myself, individually.)]] Well, it's taken into account, it's already taken into account: you individually corrected Senator Alice the Hare. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No... [[At the committee meeting.]] Okay... I take it you didn't? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Okay, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Commission for the Territorial Government and State Administration and the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, let me remind you that item 17 of the agenda, i.e. The law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Road Transport Act has already been examined. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1235, and the report of the Commission In print No 1235 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee... [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 54 to 13 minutes 59]] We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act - Energy Law. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Act - Energy Law adopted by the Sejm on 4 July. At the committee meeting, the bill that I am now presenting was examined. The purpose of this law is to complement and clarify the provisions of energy law concerning: obligations of the transmission system operator, the distribution system operator and the connected gas system operator; the powers of the national regulatory authority − the President of the Energy Regulatory Office in relation to the relationship between the owner of the gas transmission network and the gas transmission system operator or the operator of the connected gas system. The Energy Law, the decision of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to designate a gas transmission network operator, does not fully regulate the rights and obligations of the energy company and the owner of that network. It is therefore necessary to conclude an agreement between the parties to entrust the performance of the operator's duties. The proposed provisions are precisely regulating the conclusion of a further agreement to entrust an energy company by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to an operator of a gas transmission system for longer than the duration of the existing agreement and confer on the President of the URE a tool in the form of a decision replacing the contract conferring the obligations of the operator of a gas transmission system, which will allow the performance of the operator's duties if the parties fail to enter into another agreement. The proposed provisions apply in particular to the interaction between the gas pipeline operator Gaz-System SA, which was designated in 2010 by the President of URE as an operator on the Jamaican pipeline by the end of 2025, and EuRoPol Gaz, which owns the gas pipeline. On 31 December 2019 the agreement to entrust the obligation of the operator to the Jamaican pipeline concluded by Gaz-System SA and EuRoPol Gaz SA, regulating the principles of interrelationship between these companies, expires. Gas-System and EuRoPol Gas will be obliged to conclude a contract 90 days before the end of this year. If they do not enter into a new agreement, the President of URE will issue a decision which will allow Gaz-System to carry out operator duties on the Jamaican pipeline from 1 January 2020. At the same time, it should be stressed that the project will in no way impede the transit of gas by the jamal pipeline. It also does not touch on the issue of the contract for the supply of natural gas to Poland between PGNiG and Gazprom in force until 31 December 2022. At the committee meeting it was decided to adopt the law without amendments, but a minority request was submitted. There is no rapporteur for the minority proposal, so if the marshal permits, I will also submit this proposal as chairman of the committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u111	You're welcome, Senator, to report to the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u112	The minority proposal relates to the fact that in Article. 1 in point 2 in point (a) in the mouth. 3j the words "gaseous" are replaced by the words "gaseous" or ex officio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u113	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. The senator is the rapporteur for the committee, but also the rapporteur for the minority proposal. Are there any questions? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Would Minister Piotr Naimski like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: I don't think that's necessary.]] But do you support it or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is a parliamentary project. This is important legislation, because it will allow us to regulate legal relations between the gas system operator in Poland, i.e. Gaz-System, and EuRoPol Gaz, which owns the Polish section of the Jamal pipeline. This requires regulation, without this law it would be kind of suspended on the decision of the board of EuRoPol Gaz, which is a divided board. The company is 50% owned by PGNiG and 50% owned by PGNiG Gazprom and both owners are represented on the board in relation to 1 in 1, therefore often the board of EuRoPol Gas, unfortunately, is unable to make a decision. Thus, this amendment gives the President of the Energy Regulatory Office the power to take a replacement decision in relation to a trust agreement that should apply between these two entities. This is an amendment to energy law, which will allow from January 2020 onwards to regulate these legal relations in a certain way. We support this parliamentary project as a government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u115	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to the representative of the government in connection with this law. No such questions. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... No, I inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the discussion of item 19 of the agenda: The text of the Act is contained in print No 1218 and the committee's report in print No 1218 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u116	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 4 July 2019 amending the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. The Senate Marshal passed the bill to our committee on July 5th this year. Following its consideration at its meeting on 9 July, the committee recommends that this law be adopted without amendment. At the meeting of the committee, it was clear to all that the amendment of the Act adopted from the submission of the President of the Republic of Poland, which was presented by Minister Wojciech Kolarski of the President's Chancellery during the committee, concerns the promise made at the 60th Senate meeting that the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence could be broadcast until 2022. That is when I personally wanted to make such an amendment, and I was asked not to do so, because the President will make such an amendment. And so it has happened, for which I thank the President very much. And the idea is that the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence can be distinguished by people connected with regaining and strengthening independence of the Republic of Poland not only in the year of regaining independence, in 2018, when celebrations were held. The aim was to extend the time limit for the award of the medal until 2022, in which the celebration of the century of joining Upper Silesia to the reborn Republic will take place. It must be remembered that only after the winning third Silesian Uprising did the part of Upper Silesia find itself in the Republic of Poland. That is why it is very important that the President can award this medal in 2022 and that we enjoy the celebration of independence longer, especially since in 2022 there will be numerous celebrations in Silesia related to the 100th anniversary of Silesia's return to motherhood. Here I will remind you that the third winning Silesian uprising broke out in 1921, but formally this part of Upper Silesia was only joined to Poland a year later. On 15 June 1922, the Intersocious Commission called on Poland and Germany to take part in the disputed area, on 17 June Katowice left the French garrison and on 20 June the Polish army entered Silesia. Therefore, only from that day on the creation of Polish administration began in Silesia, the construction period of the Polish administration began. But, what is important, the act of this symbolic gesture of the Upper Silesia by Poland was signed in Katowice only on 16 July 1922. Thanks to the current amendment, the medal will be awarded in 2022, it will be possible to be awarded to those Silesians who are now serving to unite Silesia with their homeland. Since independence is not given to us once and for all, let us take into account the centrifugal activities in Silesia, especially the Silesian Autonomy Movement, this commemorative medal will not only be one of the forms of commemoration of the anniversary of the century of independence, but will also be an expression of gratitude for contributing to strengthening the Polish state for those Poles who feel Silesians and serve with all their heart and talents our country. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the Committee on Culture and Media, as I mentioned at the outset, recommends that the High House adopt this amendment without amendment. In the last sentence I would like to add so immodestly that I am the first and perhaps the only senator who received this medal at the request of the Katowice Voivodeship. Of course, I did not receive it for 22 years of being a parliamentarians, but for being the author of over 80 books on historical, social issues, including significant biographies, among others. Vintage hull or card. August Hlond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u117	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any such questions. This bill was introduced by the President. Mr Wojciech Kolarski, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Wojciech Kolarski: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would first of all like to thank you very much for the fact that the Senate Committee, without amendments, adopted the law adopted by the Sejm on 4 July. Furthermore, once again, I would like to draw attention to what was presented in the rapporteur's statement. The point is that the new wording of the Act is the result of a certain commitment which was made here during the Senate work on the Law on these 2 laws are linked. This commitment that the medal should also be awarded in 2022, i.e. the year of the accession of Upper Silesia to the matrix, requires an extension of the anniversary period of the century of regaining independence. This commitment has been made, now it's being implemented. But it is realized, of course, also because of the voices that have been voiced here in the Senate, as well as because many communities, many institutions in Silesia have addressed the President's Chancellery, and many public discussions have raised the question of extending the period of celebration to this important historical moment, i.e. until 20 June 2020, the 100th anniversary of the accession of Polish troops and the moment at which the structures of the reborn Republic were created in Upper Silesia. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I kindly request the adoption of the bill submitted to the session.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u119	Thank you, Minister. At present, the senator may submit no more than one minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. I don't see any calls like that. Does a government representative want to speak on the bill? No, I don't see a call. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that item 20 of the agenda is the second reading of the draft law on amending the Housing Cooperatives Act, which has already been examined today. Therefore, we proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on education law. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No. 761, and the committee's report In print No 761 E. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Alexander Swed, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the joint committees, i.e. Commission for Laws, Commission for Science, Education and Sports and Commission for Local Government and State Administration, initiative for amending the Law. Education Law, which is simultaneously implementing the order of the Constitutional Tribunal on the signature of Act S 1/17 of 17 October 2017. The draft law provides for the introduction into the legal system of rules setting out the criteria for determining the costs of the child's journey and the guardian's return to carers who deliver disabled children or other persons entitled to school or kindergarten. In view of the absence of generally applicable criteria on the basis of which a local government unit is required to calculate the amount to be reimbursed to parents or carers in relation to the costs it incurs when delivering a disabled child to school, there are cases where the municipalities reimburse expenditure on this basis in amounts which do not provide reimbursement of the actual costs incurred for the journey of the carer and the disabled child to the school. In view of this problem, the Constitutional Tribunal has made comments on the appropriateness of legislative action to regulate the reimbursement of the costs of travelling for disabled pupils and carers to educational establishments. On the subject of this amendment, 4 meetings of the Joint Committees took place. During the legislative process, the draft amendment to the Act The majority of the institutions that spoke on the subject expressed the view that the rules for the reimbursement of the costs of travelling to educational establishments of a disabled student and guardian should be clear and precise, in line with the intention of the Constitutional Tribunal. The issue was strongly discussed by the authority, which will define by regulation the criteria for the refund of the costs of bringing the child and carer. The draft in print No 761 provided for the introduction into the legal system of criteria for determining travel costs by authorising the Minister responsible for education and education to define these criteria by means of a regulation. However, in the course of the discussion, the joint committees proposed the introduction of a detailed calculation rule in the law on the basis of which the amount to be paid by the local government unit to parents who deliver disabled children to school will be determined. It is proposed in the Law of 14 December 2016 that the Education Law introduce an appropriate formula which should be used to calculate the amount of reimbursement available to parents. The draft law proposes that the reimbursement of one-off transport costs be calculated according to the following formula. This cost equals: the number of kilometres of public road transport from the place of residence to the place where the child is taught School, kindergarten The average fuel consumption per 100 km per vehicle per vehicle according to the vehicle manufacturer's data is the average of the average fuel consumption per 100 km per vehicle. The remaining reimbursement rules would be the following. The reimbursement of transport costs will be made on the basis of a contract concluded between the governor, the mayor or the president of the city and the parents. Parents who have entered into a contract for the reimbursement of the cost of travelling a disabled child to school will be able to terminate the previous contract within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Act. The harmonisation of the calculation of the amount reimbursed to the parents by the municipalities in relation to the costs incurred in delivering the children is unlikely to have a significant impact on the financial situation of the municipalities, as the share of this expenditure in the overall income of the municipalities is low. Currently, the expenditure of the municipalities is estimated to range from PLN 14,8 million to PLN 17,1 million per year. After the amendment of the legislation, it is estimated that the total expenditure of municipalities for the reimbursement of the costs of delivering children with disabilities to schools may be around PLN 15.9 million per year. The proposed law will result in the implementation of the amount reimbursed by the local government unit to parents in relation to the costs incurred in delivering the child to school. The system of law will be brought into line with the Constitutional Tribunal's decision of 17 October 2017. The joint committees unanimously adopted this proposal for an amendment. I move to the High House to adopt a uniform draft law on amending the law on education, contained in print No. 761 S, and a draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u121	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Committee has authorized her to represent Senator Alexander Swede. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Iwona Michalek: No.]] The Minister doesn't want to. Good. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to the current representative of the government. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klein. Minister, I'd like to speak to you for a moment. There'll be a senator's question. Ms Iwona Michalek, Secretary of State, Government Plenipotentiary to support the educational function of the school. There you go, Mr. Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This law is of course important, because it eliminates certain problems that were due to the rights that students and their guardians have, and that is what should be enjoyed. But there are also situations where students are divided according to whether they are in public or non-public schools. Are those provisions I was talking about for students of all schools regardless of the nature of the schools? Why do I ask that, and why would I even ask that? It is a regulation of the Council of Ministers of 5 February 2019 on the implementation of the programme "Emergency at school and at home." This programme divides pupils from public and private schools. This programme cannot be used by students who study in non-public schools, although these schools have public schools' rights. Do you think that, somehow, there is equality of subjects, equality of students? Although some say: a, non-public schools are elite schools, etc., but many schools, especially in small towns, in villages, are organized as non-public schools, run by associations, etc. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Iwona Michalek: Yes, sir.]] This is precisely why it is done to rationalise the school network or to decide, where the local government wants to liquidate or liquidate the school... These schools are being played out as non-public, and from the student's point of view there is no difference whether they are in a public school, which is run by the local government or in a non-public school, which is run by a non-governmental organisation. But in all kinds of legislation, including the food programme I mentioned here, there is a distinction between them and those students who are in private schools do not have that right. My question is: aren't those rules that are being introduced such a distinction, i.e., isn't it that non-public school pupils are in a worse situation? And the second question is: will this program of meals at school and at home also be implemented for students who are non-public school students?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! This provision that we are discussing today concerns both public and non-public schools, which is about bringing children with disabilities to schools. Just so we're clear. There is no distinction between public and non-public schools. Indeed, we want to treat all children equally, and I absolutely agree on that. As far as the school and home meal programme is concerned, we know the problem and we are leaning over it at the moment. I promise you, it'll be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Minister, this is one of the most important information that I have been able to obtain today, because, indeed, non-public schools have already paid attention to this on several occasions. This declaration by the Minister is really important, and I'll deliver it right away. Because some time ago I received an answer that the Ministry would be looking at, monitoring, checking, and making a decision in time. So...]] Thank you, Senator. [[You're welcome.]] I understand you can't brag, but... There's no more questions. Thank you, Minister. We proceed to the discussion, which is to open the discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. I would like to remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling and is included in print No 1175 and the committee's report In print No 1175 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u126	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As your Marshal just said, this draft law on the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act was prepared by the Legislative Commission as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, relatively recent, as of March this year. The case is quite well known, you can say, hot, because it affects tens of thousands of people. Namely, it's about people who are a little bit strange in context. That's the date I'm gonna name... This problem is known as: pensioners 'Cause it's not just women, but mostly women. Born in 1953, in short retired in 1953. It so happens that when the legislation was implemented that formed the pension reform, in 1999, then... This reform was quite extensive, it concerned the calculation of the pension, that is, what we already know very well today, so saving contributions in the insured account and then converting these contributions into pensions, but it also introduced a number of other changes. E.g. This is the change... of workers who have reached a certain age. And in some professional groups, it was enough for them to retire early, so not at the age of 60 for women and 65 for men, but at the age of 55 for women and 60 for men respectively. And it was a universal right. Moreover, of course, there were also professional powers. And this rule was abolished in 1999, but not immediately, not as he stabbed, only set the date of 2008 as the last year when early retirement could continue. In fact, nothing would have happened if it had not been for the adoption of a law, a generally valid law, which said that if someone had decided to retire early, it must be expected that once he applied for this normal pension, so its name, or universal, will be deducted from the capital he had accumulated from his early retirement. Like I said, it was a reasonable arrangement. All those who retired early in 2005, 2006 or 2007, after 5 years, reached retirement age and were able to retire without that consequence. Those who passed their retirement age in 2008 reached their retirement age in 2013. Meanwhile, the Act entered into force on 1 January 2013 and said: if you apply now, it will reduce your capital by early payments, early pensions. So these people were surprised by this bill, they couldn't have applied for retirement before, because they hadn't reached the age yet, and when they did, the law was already working. And that's why this is mainly about women, because when we talk about 2013, the retirement age is 60 years, so it comes out in 1953 as the year of birth. To a small extent, this applies also to men, in cases where early retirement and universal retirement were a condition, and not necessarily an age. But most of all this applies to women, a total of tens of thousands of people. Of course, all these people, if they applied for a universal pension, had this pension lower, because they had just been reduced by those amounts previously paid. They struggled for a long time to change it, but it didn't work out very well. Until finally it happened that because there were also court cases which did not lead to anything, because the law was as it was, one of the courts, probably in Szczecin, received a question from the judge whether such a provision was compatible with the constitution of those persons. And the judgment of the Court was that, of course, it was not that it was surprising the citizen, the citizen could not direct his decisions rationally in this situation. Therefore, he did not delete this provision, because, as I said, This provision is justified, but concluded that it cannot be applied to persons born in 1953. We took this subject relatively quickly after the judgment, given that time has been running since 2013, after all, the sixth year has passed. The Legislative Office prepared a draft, which was discussed at the committee meeting. The Ministry of Labour has submitted some comments to this project, we have had a discussion, in particular that it was important to define very precisely the way in which this new pension is applied, as well as the issues of compensation for lost benefits, since these people, if they were to receive a pension without deductions, e.g. In 2013, the funds they would have received by now would have been greater. Project received by the State with the committee's report, it has not yet been, so to speak, perfect. At the committee meeting, we noticed that the rules on this reimbursement of lost benefits may be unclear and may be interpreted differently by the CSO. We wanted to avoid it. Therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, we have agreed that the Ministry will prepare a further modernisation of this project. It has been prepared and I would like to announce immediately that I am taking over, I can say, this proposal for an amendment which the Ministry has prepared and that I will make this amendment in a moment. [[During the discussion, not during the report.]] In the middle, right? [[Not in the course of the report, just...]] Okay, okay, okay. I'm gonna put it separately, and now I'm just gonna talk about it, that's all. Namely, compared to what is presented in the committee's report, we have here a precise formula of compensation. I'll read it: if you re-established the amount of the pension granted under Article. 24 is higher than paid so far, the pensioner is paid compensation. The amount of compensation shall be the difference between the sum of the pension amounts that would have been allocated during the period referred to in paragraph. 3, taking into account their valorisation and the sum of the amounts paid during that period. So it's pretty clear. If someone applied for a common pension e.g. In 2013 and it was calculated with deductions, it is now calculated without these deductions. We're going to figure out how much this person would have received until today, the sum, and we're going to subtract from what he's married. This difference will be paid once. In general, at the moment, I am already talking about this final proposal. This proposal provides in 2 separate provisions, in 2 separate articles, for a solution to the situation of those who applied for and received the pension in their own time, and for those who did not apply for it, taking into account that the pension they were charged was lower than the benefits they received. And both of these cases are discussed here. There is still how this pension is calculated. Later, this provision, which I was talking about, is the question of the compensation mentioned. Finally, a number of provisions concerning the re-fixing of a survivor's pension, if such decisions have taken place. I would also like to say that all those who wish to apply for a recalculation of their pension will have six months from the date of entry into force of this law. And she should come into force 14 days after the day of the announcement. Of course, she'll still be in the Seym. Perhaps the Sejm will make some more adjustments. Here I would just like to appeal not so much, because it is too soon, but in any case to point out that the Senate has tried to act very quickly here. And the Ministry of Labour, too, for which I would like to thank you. And also the ZUS. We have very few meetings left at the moment. I think the Sejm has another session in July. [[Next week.]] Next week, July. Well, it would be good for the Sejm to say so, to take it to the workshop and if there were any corrections... Anyway, either they will or they won't be, it's coming to us as already a Seym law. We still have a meeting at the end of July. And if it were this really important thing I stress that there are tens of thousands of people interested, perhaps 70,000 people It would be resolved, and I think it would be accepted with great gratitude by all concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u127	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the Legislative Commission has authorized her to represent Senator Marek Borowski. No such questions. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[There it is.]] Who? Oh, Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u128	Mr Senator, I have just a question of whether the committee you represent has adopted all these amendments unanimously and if not, which, if any, is the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u129	We had two stages here at work. The first stage was a project developed by the Legislative Office at the request of the committee. There was this conclusion, unanimous, that it had to be dealt with. It was a judgment hearing. And as a result of the judgment, it was, well, a joint decision to deal with it. The Legislative Bureau has prepared a project. This project has already been discussed in the form of first reading, with the participation of the Ministry of Labour and the Social Security Office. Some amendments have already been made there, which have generally been accepted, and the whole project has been adopted unanimously. What I'm going to put together now is a certain modernization of this, but moving towards clarification, and that's how I'm going to say the exits to the interested ones. So I don't think... of course, the committee will be looking into it. But I don't think it raises any doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u130	Thank you. There are no more questions... Is it? There's a question. Mr... [[Why...]] [[You can't be seen, Jackie.]] Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u131	Indeed, Senator rapporteur, this clarification is precise, but it does not mean, it is not the same... it is not the answer to the demand or, I would say, the sense of harm to people who have been affected since 2013, or perhaps since 6 June 2012, which has been covered by this process. That's the first expression... Question: Does this formula include this? This is the fact that women in particular applied for common pensions at different times. They were followed by formulas consistent with the time when applications were submitted, where the main determining factor was the duration of life. And it came out extremely, so that those people who filed two, three, four or five years ago, and could have applied for common pensions even nine years ago... Their benefits differ from those of persons who did not submit applications after 2013 and have only done so now, once the Constitutional Tribunal has given its ruling. These differences amount to up to PLN 1 thousand 500. These people feel hurt. Does this formula recognise it? Second question. You were right to mention what the committee was saying... [[No question, Mr. Senator. I'd like to ask you a question.]] The second point is to make things even... In fact, compensation is guaranteed, but the interest rate on this... For many years, these pensions have been underrated. And the third issue, less technical, let's say. I have a document in which the Social Security Office pointed out that the 5-year period has passed since the decision and these persons are not entitled to recalculation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u132	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u133	I'll start with the last case because she's the easiest one here. This subject was discussed. Besides, the senator took part in this discussion. The project solves this issue. I mean, the five-year period doesn't play a role here anymore. Under this law, any person may apply for a recalculation of the pension whether it has been five years or not. As far as the previous issues you were talking about are concerned, they are actually quite complicated. The fact is that the pension system that we have now actually shapes pensions on the basis of 2 elements. The first element is the accumulated capital, he, you can say, is located in the numerator, and the second is the statistical, the average period of further life, which is located in the denominator. Of course, if someone has been in early retirement for a long time and will apply now, i.e. a few years after reaching retirement age, then the statistical period of his further life will necessarily be shorter. Therefore, the pension that will be charged to him will be higher. But the question is, what do we do about it? Take that away from them? [[Voice from the room: Leave...]] Exactly. As far as the others are concerned, there's a problem here, because if someone filed a motion... For now, let's put those I was just talking about aside. Let's look at it in a very simple way. Namely, people submitted applications in 2013 and learned from the Social Security Office that their pension would be e.g. 1 thousand PLN, and they have already taken a previous witness in the amount of e.g. One thousand 100 zlotys. Therefore, they said 'I thank you' and the pension was suspended and they continued to receive this benefit. And now it's been a long time, there's a ruling from the Court, and what's the fair settlement of this case? It is that we are calculating what would have happened if this had not been the case in 2013, we are calculating this pension and it turns out that it will then be, for example. PLN 1,300. But she wasn't paid back then, so we're counting 200 zlotys per month, it's worth it for six years, just like they were valued pensions. 'Cause that's what it says, it's gotta be worth it. For 6 years we have 72 months, times 200 zlotys, that's 14 grand plus valorization. And that 14,000 is paid to that person. And from that moment on, she is already retiring 1 thousand 300 PLN. This is a fair solution. Of course, there is now a situation that I mentioned at the beginning that there were people who stayed longer on this witnessing, and they stayed longer on this partial witnessing, or for some reason, I do not know for what reason, but for some reason, and they will have this higher pension. All I want to say is that my opinion is one thing, and the other is what the job ministry's position was here. Well, this position was that we do not solve it in such a way that we say to all those who applied for retirement in 2013, then withdraw these applications and submit them now, and then we increase them all. I would like to say that this in turn would probably cause other differences as well. Because if someone got a pension before 2013, that is to say he had an early retirement since 2007, in 2012 he applied for a pension and received it without deduction, and now the same person who survived before... will get more of it by this 500.600 PLN, then this person will raise the argument again: it is not fair, how is it possible? Unfortunately, there are some things that we need to resolve in my opinion that are most appropriate. The most legitimate way is that we solve the problem of those who have been harmed here in such a way that we calculate what it would look like if there was no provision, but we do not take away those who have actually benefited from a certain system that we have introduced. What I'm trying to say is that if there wasn't a provision to deduct early payments, there's probably a lot of people who would go along with it: I'm 60 years old now, but I'm not applying because I have an early retirement pension that's not so bad, I'm just gonna wait, I don't know, maybe until... I'm in good health, right? I'm gonna wait until I'm 70, and then because it's only gonna be 10 statistical years, I'm gonna take 5,000 pensions. I realize that there may still be some dissonance here, but it seems to me that in the light of those provisions that have already been, and the Court's judgment I stress the Court's judgment, which referred to it, to nothing else. It was no longer possible to make further movements here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u134	Thank you, Senator. I don't see any more questions. Thank you. Is the representative of the government, Minister Marcin Zielenecki, willing to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u135	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Senate for this initiative, who responded quite quickly to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal on 6 March this year and started working on an appropriate legislative initiative. Secondly, I would like to say that the department of family, work and social policy in the course of the work undertaken by the committee served as a servant, i.e. de facto acted on behalf of the Senate Committee. Firstly, we tried, say, to achieve in the best possible way the intention of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, we have also undertaken the task of assessing the financial consequences of implementing this ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. I confirm that these amendments, which were tabled in the course of today's reading of this project, better reflect the intention expressed by the Constitutional Tribunal in its ruling than the first version of the project, which was the subject of work in the committee itself. First of all, this is about the subject range. This first version of the project significantly exceeded the subjective scope of those powers which the Constitutional Tribunal would have confirmed in the case of women of the 1953 year. I think it's worth saying a few words about the genesis of the problem itself. Senator Borowski here presented the essence of this problem. This is, you can say, a story that goes back to the moment of the 1999 pension reform. Let me remind you that the pension reform provided for and continues to provide for the division of insured persons into 2 categories. The date of birth criterion was applied and this was the date of 1 January 1949. Persons born before that date remained in the old pension scheme, in the defined benefit scheme. Persons born after 31 December 1948 were covered by the new pension scheme, so-called. a defined contribution system. This would not be the problem that we are discussing today and which the Constitutional Tribunal has also debated if this division of insured persons due to the date of birth were consistent and rigid if there were no exceptions to this principle, but when the reform was introduced in 1999, such exceptions were established. These exceptions consisted in the fact that for some persons covered by the new pension scheme according to the date of birth criterion, i.e. those born after 1948, the possibility of retirement was created on an old basis. In general, those who fulfilled the conditions for retirement by the end of 2008 could have been retiring under the rules of this defined benefit scheme. I'm asking you to look at the provisions of the Pension and Pension Act of the Social Insurance Fund. Well, it is clear from these provisions that the legislator assumed that this old pension scheme, the defined benefit scheme, due to the principle of determining the amount of the pension would be a system more favourable than that mechanism which was in force in the new pension scheme. And that's where the exceptions came from. At a time when the reform was implemented, it was not foreseen that for some insured persons covered by these transitional arrangements, this possibility of retirement on an old basis, it would be beneficial to apply for a pension calculated according to the formula of the defined benefit and then to use this systemic arrangement, which is addressed to persons born after 1949. This situation that we are facing today is also a clear consequence of a legislative error which was committed in the implementation of the Law increasing the retirement age adopted in May 2012. It can be said that the Court in its judgment of 6 March 2019 did not, in principle, contest this mechanism of reducing the basis for the assessment of the new pension by pensions paid earlier and calculated on the basis of the old rules, according to the formula of the defined benefit, but it did just question the procedure for introducing this solution. He felt that this mode was in breach of the principles of citizens' trust in the state. It was this first group of people who had the right to be surprised by the introduction of such a negative solution for them that were women in 1953. I think that's it. As for... I mean I also want to say that, of course, we at this stage of our legislative work do not know the official position of the Council of Ministers. This position will appear at an appropriate stage, if the High House so decides. This bill will be sent to the Sejm. As I mentioned at the outset, our participation in the work of the committee was of a service nature and served as a means for this project, which will leave the High House, to be as prepared as possible in legislative terms and to be as fit as possible with the intentions of the Constitutional Tribunal, giving that judgment of 6 March 2019. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay in the podium. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to the representative of the government present at the meeting, related to this item. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u137	Minister, this is a hot topic. What is your attitude towards these numerous proposals that have already become another petition, and which you have already mentioned? Well, the people of this year's year, referring to confusion, disinformation, surprise, which the Court has confirmed, demand that all decisions that were issued after 2012... be recounted equally, of course, according to the rules that apply after 2012, so that they would assume that they are retiring only now, actually on 6 March, once the Constitutional Tribunal has given its ruling. That's one question. Two. Senator Borowski said that not only will this benefit be revised, but that the amount of compensation will also be paid. At the committee meeting, I asked if this amount, as an amount outstanding by the Social Security Office, would be charged with the statutory rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u138	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u139	In fact, questions should be addressed to applicants because the author of the project is the committee. When it comes to my receipt of this project, I can say yes. As I mentioned, the Constitutional Tribunal did not dispute, and this is what Senator Borowski mentioned, the very principle of deduction of previously paid pension benefits calculated according to this old formula from the basis of the dimension. The Court contested the procedure for introducing it. If you look at, for example, where the provisions you propose to add to the pension law will be located, you will see that these are transitional provisions, precisely because, as a rule, this deduction mechanism has been de facto by the Constitutional Tribunal declared compatible with the Constitution, it has not been challenged. This is the first case. As far as the subject matter is concerned, let me say yes. Here applicants actually use the technique of reopening the procedure and de facto the provisions of this law, which we are discussing today, will be covered by two or perhaps even three categories of eligible persons. The first large category is those who have already applied for a new pension, having previously, i.e. before 1 January 2013, granted a pension calculated according to this formula of the defined benefit. It can be said that the legal situation of these people varies somewhat. There are those persons who have been given a decision not to convert or to fix that pension using this fine article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b pension law. Among these are those who have exhausted the appeal procedure, i.e. some of them have appealed to the labour and social security courts, and these persons often have a judgment refusing to calculate their pension without applying this Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b. The technique you are using here to compensate for the losses incurred by such persons is to allow them to resume their proceedings and calculate, very often despite the expiry of the 5-year limitation period, pensions according to the new formula at the date of submission of the application, which was once rejected by the pension body of the Social Insurance Institution and later, in the case of parts insured, also rejected by the labour and social security courts. And there's the other group, the people who haven't decided to apply for a pension calculated on a new basis. These persons will have a fixed pension as at the date of the application. With regard to this first large group, i.e. those who have already applied for a pension, we anticipate - or are you expecting in this project? Compensation, that is to say, equalisation of this benefit from the moment such an application was made. And these applications were made in very different periods, more than 6 years have passed since 1 January 2013, so it can be said that in the case of those who applied for earlier periods, this compensation will be higher. It will, of course, also depend primarily on the difference in the amount of the pension established on the new rules and pensions established on the old rules. I would also like to say that not in all cases this difference will benefit the insured themselves. That is to say, there will be people for whom a new pension will not be more favourable than the pension option previously established under the old pension scheme. But since you are proposing to apply a compensation mechanism, i.e. to withdraw until you apply for a pension, and at the same time to compensate, I do not see here, in this project, a mechanism, as you say, of interest or interest that such persons could obtain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as Senator Borowski said, we are moving in a very complicated legal space, but both from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and from the earlier demands of this group. A significant group of pensioners and pensioners, above all women in the 1953 yearbook, showed that the case had already been changed. But that did not happen. 2 years ago, Senate committees The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which I am working in, adopted a petition together with a legislative proposal made by the legislative department, but by a majority of the Senate two years ago, this initiative was rejected. This does not mean, however, that there is a clear answer to the question of who is guilty of guilt at all. Undoubtedly, the Court considered that legislative changes in 2008 had been made in flight, which meant that, at the time, In particular, women who lacked work because of high unemployment had other needs, e.g. Family care for other members of the family, as it was the elderly, but also the care of adult members of the family was taken by ad hoc decisions using the welfare of early retirement. However, as the Court has rightly stated, and as everyone has already confirmed, these ladies have not been given the opportunity to make a specific calculation for life and for pensions, sometimes supplemented by work. In this situation, these decisions were indeed chaotic and varied. As different as the different situations in these women's lives were. On the plus of their expectations today, which fill our boxes and which are the cause of visits and meetings, one must include the fact that these matters were raised by our legislative department, previously the Ombudsman, and also some senators, although I myself, admit, did not belong to this group. So today we have a situation where the Court is sort of You're right about that, Minister. He did not accuse that early retirements had reduced the capital to the level of current, common pensions, but this, due to the element of surprise, did not meet these women in 1953 when making flight laws. And today we have this social situation. Perhaps less legal, although of course we are talking about lawmaking here, but we cannot avoid responding to the social situation In this group of women there are at least 3 groups, which actually, as the Minister said, result in various gains or profits due to this confusion. The most convincing thing is that it is best... that nothing should have been done, just wait until the Constitutional Court ruled and submit a request, because in this situation all parameters regarding the calculation of the universal pension are very beneficial As I said in my questions, sometimes the differences in the same positions, towards women who have the same internship, range from 500 PLN to 1 thousand PLN. And that's the social dimension these women expect. Indeed, as a result of the senate initiative, but also the work of the committee, the Minister withdrew from his position, his opinion that it was proper to count on these pensions only what burdened them... More than that, as a result of the Commission's action, both initial capital and contribution capital were allocated. That's a plus and that's going to make it even, which, as calculated here, is going to be a couple thousand. Of course, my doubt is about compensation, just because there's another form of asking, which is to recalculate... In my opinion, this should be paid with interest, as a public institution is responsible here, and this is undoubtedly the case with the Social Security Office. Indeed, I also have doubts as to whether to accept the request quite universally, I am talking about this social context. In order to reset everything, to indicate on 1 January 2013 and to recognise that these persons did not apply for universal pensions after 2012, and on an equal basis to calculate their current resources. The Minister actually says that the Court here does not... that it has maintained the principle of counting, but the Court has also stated that it will not indicate the rules of compensation for these people, undoubtedly because of this lack of openness of the institution of the Social Security Office, it will not interfere, because it is a matter of the will of the legislator. I'm sure it's a social factor to consider the government coming up here. It's not a big charge. Very economical, very pharmacy, I would say, to pay these pensions. He was referring to deficits, to resources, to budgets. And maybe it would have sounded credible, Minister, if it hadn't been for the fact that a month ago, and even yesterday, it was spent on people who didn't even expect it, billions of zlotys in terms of, say, the election campaign. I don't deny that the government is planning on spending money to win the election. Another issue is whether such cumulation is beneficial for the economy and for the quality of life in democracy in general. The ladies say there's almost a pharmacy here. Very precise calculation. Assuming they were harmed, which is confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal... And at the same time, they say there's no money. Well, money's been pouring streams this year, tens of billions of zlotys. Earlier, as I have already proved, as these claims were raised, they were rejected by the voices of the right hand. In this situation, I declare that I cannot support this solution because of many doubts and, above all, because of the policies and feelings of harm to these women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to make the amendment that I have already discussed in a moment, so I will not discuss it again. However, I would like to point out that this amendment, as I said, agreed with the Ministry, limits a group of people who will benefit from this law to those born in 1953, although there are people who were born in 1952 or 1951 and were also surprised by this solution. I thought that these people should also be included, and in the first version, which was prepared by the Legislative Office, such a condition for the year 1953 was not present. The Ministry argues that it is sticking strictly to the Court's judgment, and the Court has stated in one case, in a particular case, the lady who was born in 1953, and therefore its judgment concerns that year. However, in the explanatory memorandum, the Court pointed out that, in general, people should not be surprised by such solutions and that such surprise is contrary to the Constitution. And a few people were also surprised - that's not the scale anymore - that were born in other years, and that's why I thought they should be here. However, at this stage I do not make any amendments, except for the main one I have said, which contains important solutions. I don't want to delay the entry into force of this law in any way. It is indeed extremely important. Especially since, in some part, it goes beyond judgment, because it also includes those who have retired early on the basis of industry rules and not general rules, and the lady who brought the case in court wanted to get a pension on the basis of general rules and the Court only said so. So that's why I'm not proposing this amendment. I don't know. Maybe there'll be other decisions in the Seym. Finally, I would like to ask, Mr Marshal, that the Marshal may set a deadline for the Legislative Commission to examine this amendment so that we can vote at this meeting and quickly refer the bill to the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u144	Thank you very much. Now I'm supposed to make this formula, right? [[Voice from the room: Excuse me?]] Now I'm going to make this formula that... [[Voice from the room: No, no, not until after the end of the point.]] No? Good. Mr. Senator Silence. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I believe that it is appropriate to accept with applause the fact that we are proceeding to the swift execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, because the judgment was just a few months ago, on 6 March 2019. Indeed, our initiative aims to restore elementary justice, which has once again been violated in relation to the weakest people, because to pensioners, by the coalition of the Civic Platform and PSL, which then reigns. I'll remind you of earlier stories. At one time, an absurd law was adopted which ordered people who wanted to be entitled to a pension to leave work for at least one day so that they could work the next day and receive that pension. Yet the State does not do any grace here, that people acquire this right, because as a result of overworking a certain number of years and paying contributions they acquire this right. This interference by the legislator was scandalous, especially in relation to those who, before the reform came into force, took pensions and were obliged to leave work, because if not, they were also suspended from pension rights. I remember when I was outraged. I was in opposition at the time. I collected 30 colleagues' signatures and said: we are going to the Constitutional Court because I think the case is certain to win. And in spite of the various means that we were trying to get the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to run this case, we finally went through the whole procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal, and I was then no longer a senator, and I was acting as a proxy. And we won the case. This was the case with the need to specify Nearly 80,000 people. At the same time, a legislative initiative had to be taken to correct these errors. Well, it took a long time because the Constitutional Court's judgment was dated 13 November 2012, and it took some time before the legislator decided to correct that mistake. There was a bill that provided for compensation for those people's benefits, which they did not receive as a result of the suspension of those benefits for a few dozen months... sorry, a dozen, I don't want to give it to them within ten months. Now we face a similar task. Namely again because of the scandalous mistake that that coalition made at the time when it was introduced... [[And later.]] Please? [[And later.]] At that time, an absurd solution was introduced, such that women born in 1953 who acquired the right to benefit in connection with early retirement was treated as being deducted from the basis for calculating the normal pension. Well, it's obviously a hurtful solution that needs to be fixed, and it's a good thing that we're doing it. That is why I am alienating myself from this legislative initiative of ours, which aims to restore elementary justice. And it is good that we include not only those who are subject to the Universal System Act, namely the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, but also those who are subject to trade laws. Therefore, I think that this is very supportive. And it is only regrettable that they correct errors not those who should, because we who rule today have to correct the mistakes that the previous coalition has made. Finally, the appeal, ladies and gentlemen, to everyone, regardless of who is in charge: let us really respect the people who are relatively weakest, i.e. pensioners and pensioners. Frequent amendments to the pension and pension law defy the dignity of these pensioners and lead to so unfair solutions that we must then withdraw from them after they are declared contrary to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u147	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Now that my previous speaker has introduced an element of guilt, let him consider which one is greater: whether it was the one resulting from the instant edition of the recipe or the fault of those who, after this, already a few years ago, knew about the defects and the consequences, but rejected these efforts by the legislative department, the spokesman and the committee on which you are sitting. Consider it. I have the courage to admit that in this work I have also lost myself because of equal positions, both governments, that there is no return. In fact, until recently, this position was supported by the current government. and that if the compensation is to be made, it is only to a certain extent. But that's not the subject of my speech. The subject matter is what follows from these consultations. It's a mess. And we're all in agreement about that, and it doesn't allow the pensioner or the pensioner to recount, simply saying, his benefit. There are different groups, Mr. Minister spoke about it. The comparison is and they are actually tense. It is customary for pension laws that if you can't describe something with a word or it's hard to describe it with a word, you can resort to mathematics, that is, to a pattern. And here's what I'm proposing. Besides, it's not just me, because it's also about the Ombudsman's reservations about other regulations that they are unclear especially for pensioners and pensioners... In fact, retired people and pensioners are at the mercy of women in the Social Security Office, who are kind, but who are acting within a certain and little baby. That's what happened in this situation. And these ladies say that they trusted the ZUS, who is guided by the very well-understood interests of the pensioner himself and the pensioner. 'Cause we're finally talking about women with 35 years of internship, which is a long-term internship. That is why my proposal, Minister, is: since this solution is now impossible At least I'll talk about it in a minute. Perhaps in another way you would have issued such a provision... Maybe it could be done within the framework of guidelines, because the guidelines will go to the Social Security Office anyway. The point is that every pensioner and pensioner should be able to replace their data with different data, which we agree on. Well, I'm sure you'd say he got a reliable estimate, although maybe it's too small. And the second point is what we've already considered. Yes, Mr. Senator Borowski. That is, whether we will be able to make this initiative in this term of office. Failure would mean freezing for at least six months. And there's no telling how another government would do that. But we all know that a good change does wonders. It can make changes within a few hours. We had not one example of this, but a dozen such cases, not only in the judicial sphere, in the matter of the Court of Justice, which, as it turns out, serves 130 thousand women very much here. But also, for example, on the tax bill, the one recently passed... Almost within a few hours, we made mistakes. Come on, let's leave it. I therefore ask the government to take into account my vote regarding the lack of support for this initiative and, as in other actions, it has made a good change, a quick and good change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator Silence, your somewhat emotional statement is, I believe, a good example of the fact that problems in the discussion arise when not all the debaters are in the courtroom. When we were discussing these issues, when Senator Rulewski was performing, your senator was gone, and perhaps you didn't hear certain things. Senator Rulewski said it more generally now, so I'll say it more clearly. Well, two years ago, that was the conclusion. Such a request was made here as a result of a petition, and it was for the Senate to take exactly this initiative. Exactly like that. And he was rejected. He was rejected, I presume... I don't know if it's your voice or not, but anyway... [[Most of them.]] Perhaps not yours, but your colleagues will. Therefore, the phillipic you gave here about the previous government... Perhaps justified, although it would be worth looking at the documents and seeing what was the discussion, whether everyone noticed that it would end this way, because, unfortunately, it happens that there are just some things that you don't notice. Anyway, this phillip was a little missed, because everyone here, you might say, has a little behind his ears. And that's the first point of my speech. And point two. It is also because you weren't there that you stressed here this provision on reducing capital by paying early retirement. And you said it was a terrible recipe. Well, no, that's not a bad recipe. And let me remind you that the Constitutional Tribunal has not removed this provision, absolutely. He thought this provision was constitutional. He doesn't speak on legitimacy or unreasonableness, but on whether the rule is constitutionally compatible. He merely stated that the application of this provision to persons who were born in 1953 was contrary to the Constitution. And as for this recipe, unfortunately, there was a transition here, Mr. Senator, from one system to another. That's what I'm talking about. Namely, if there was no such provision, then, given that we are going to the defined contribution system, i.e. pension is calculated on the basis of calculated contributions and the statistical period so called. living, those who have passed on to partial benefit under the old system, in which this partial benefit could have been relatively high... It would be worthwhile for them to be on this witnessing service for a very long time, and to retire universally when the statistical life expectancy would be very short. Then they would have had an extremely high pension, definitely a few thousand. This provision was therefore necessary. The only mistake that was made is that it was not noted that this 1 year-old, 1953, which in 2008 had benefited from early retirement, would only be entitled to a universal pension in 2013, i.e. after the entry into force of that law. I'm sure the error could have been fixed earlier. It wasn't, so we're fixing it now. We act quite in agreement, so it's not worth accusing each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Marek Borowski. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could move on to the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be carried out... [[Voice from the room: There must still be a referral.]] Oh, so that's... I'm so sorry. [[There's an amendment.]] Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Family Committee, Senior and Social Policy. Senator Marek Borowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is included in print no. 1035, and the committee's report In print No 1035 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee that you mentioned to Marshal Pęk, I would like to present a report. I'll start with the decision. By decision of the joint committees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Committee, it was decided to adopt draft amendments to several laws submitted by the group of senators. The genesis of this project should be found in the previous work of the Senate. The Senate, almost exclusively, deals with veteran issues. Both clubs, PiS and the Civic Platform participated in this work, and as a result a law has been in operation for two years. Well, 13 thousand repressed and opposition activists are paid monthly death benefits, temporary or conditional assistance is granted, in many local governments other communication assistance, social assistance is provided. What Senator Mammytov, co-author of the previous law, was particularly appreciated by the fact that those who were repressed, generally ill and mature In order not to say: a very mature age, since the law includes repression since 1956, they benefit from amenities in health care. This is seen by many of them when they weigh the goodness of this law, they say that the most important thing is that they do not have to wait in queues after so many years. Their work was followed by suspended measures which, as announced, were intended to provide further benefits or greater benefits. In addition, Prime Minister Szydło and Prime Minister Morawiecki themselves spoke about this in the current legal state of cash provision, including the basic amount of PLN 423. Well, there were also expectations that the specialists could go without queues. There were further demands for equalisation with the persecutors... all this was then properly postponed in the framework of such an agreement with the government, especially with the government's attorney, with the Veterans' Office, until the act was verified. We were acting in a vacuum, we didn't have much data. I admit that my colleagues from the previous government have decided that the claims of this law amount to PLN 7 billion and will blow up the budget. Today we can say that the amounts allocated to the budget For the 50 million, for the second time, I will shoot, probably 50 million zlotys, including budget probably 80 million zlotys, even half of them have not been used. When we talk about different costs Of course, because as far as the other costs are concerned, I will not engage in the discussion, it follows that this whole opposition struggle has so far cost a budget of maybe PLN 60, 70 million. But it is not about the weight on which we put money on one, and on the other it is about what was put by anti-communist opposition activists, activists of Solidarity. Another aspect of this law is certain issues that came out, so to speak, in the work, during the operation of this law. The previous law, the previous amendment granted to these people, for example, like the combatants and other persons covered by the law on combatants, the right to double the period of repression necessary for the appointment of a traineeship. It was and is for veterans and other people. But it turns out it's a record. almost empty, in a small number of cases used. Because he did, in the new insurance system, make it easier to retire early, e.g. 1 year in prison as 2 years of work, but the financial consequences of this were zero, because the current insurance system is based on the definition of capital, premiums. So if somebody didn't work, they were in prison, they were hiding, they weren't making contributions for them. Since no contributions were paid, this resulted in a reduced pension. I'm not talking about not participating in promotions, bonuses, awards, etc. We're just talking about pensions. And that bill goes against it. And this is probably one of the few in this act amenities: reimbursement, that for each month of being away from the workplace, pursuing a profession, agricultural or economic activity a pensioner will therefore receive a supplement to the basic payment: 10 zł. But not more than half the lowest pension. Well, that's $1,000 130 today. So even here there is a restriction. Although I do know people. In particular, opponents, less persecuted Who, well, worked for more than 10 years because they've been in prison for more than 10 years. The second such benefit, which also results from this inventory, which took place previously but was dependent on general budget expenditure, is almost equalisation of rights of widows or widowers from activists or persons repressed. In the current state of law, veterans, but also other people, for example, working in coal mines... Widows or widows after them receive almost the same benefit. Because there's another structure. That's not in the Act on Activists. And there is no denying that the social situation of a self-employed person is much worse than it was before. And there is no denying that a widower or widower participated in the opposition process. But they didn't collect documents, they didn't signal it. Therefore, there is a very modest proposal here: that these widows and widows should be granted half of this benefit, which they themselves receive from those who are fighting for independence, in accordance with the Constitution, Article. 17. This is the second one that is included in the bill. The third is the derivative of the latter. If we already accept that a widower or widower will remain single with those benefits they have, including this half, then probably, like others, they will want or even will have to receive aid from municipalities, local governments. Therefore, there is a provision stating that these persons will be provided with cards which will authorise them to receive the benefits which their spouses had. And this is one chapter, as you've noticed, modest. During the work of the committee, the authors were accused of excessive modesty, so as not to say, excessive resistance to other projects which fell and were indeed richer in this provision. The expenditure related to these benefits I consider as one which falls within the amounts included in the budget, also this year, which will not be implemented in terms of payments, but above all next year, because I believe that this law has a chance to be adopted, there is a chance for the Senate to take action here. And there is the second thing in this bill, this is a novel, that is, especially during the period in which we live, during the celebration of the century of regaining independence, such a way towards those who have already left, and those who will probably go away. I mean, I want to mark veterans' graves and anti-communist opposition activists with a sign. I did not take it with me, but one example of such a sign could be the bow of the insurgent of 1863, issued at the request of a family, of a combatant organization or, in the case of a single person, the municipality could ask for it. In fact, the aim of this is to simplify... I will remind you of this call from Konopnicki's poem that these graves should not be graves of vain memory, but such strongholds that defend our strength. This beautiful epitaph was just a motivation for a group of senators who would like our cemeteries to be Not only is it a place of mourning that those who visit them, and in Poland, and abroad, learn about the environment in which they live, so that young people learn about it. This sign is not expensive, 20 PLN, it is permanent. It could mean... Because this sign will also distinguish individual participants of the independence route, quiet, insurgents of Silesian, Wielkopolska, opposition activists. I think on the grave, too, Fr. The ashes will be fixed. It is also an option to meet this government initiative, which not so long ago, probably six months ago was adopted here in accordance with the law on the graves of veterans. However, which is limited, only 800 graves a year are to be renovated, which means working for 40 years if the number of graves identified is to be renovated. Here this form is more simplified, feasible, and thus we will learn that... Poland has so far concentrated, because such were technical measures, on monuments generally in large cities, in large agglomerations. But this call from our poet came out in front of this... This is already happening in the world, in several countries, among others. in the United States, the graves, the columbarias or the tombs of those who died in the struggles for freedom, for the sovereignty of the United States, are marked. Today, technology allows such a grave to be marked with such a symbol. There have been disputes about who would do this. I finally caved in and decided that since the Veterans' graves bill admits these obligations to the IPN... I've changed my mind, and I think it should be in one law that this should be treated uniformly. The introduction of grave markings, of course... A fee is charged for this. Also, so that this sign, finally noble, should be managed so that he would not be on the shelves somewhere, would not wake up among the recipients of nonchalanty. This fee is to be no more than 25 zł, which is well below the costs that our legislative department has assessed here, the costs of issuing first decisions or decisions, and then the sign itself, and its transport. Of course, combatant organisations would be exempt from these charges. That's actually all that's in this bill. Therefore, in conclusion, I ask you to remain serious and remove any divisions around this case, as has so far been the case in the Senate. My reflection is that many social groups have been caused by a good change with different gifts. As you know, I support many of them, even I participate in them, and I enrich them. But so I noticed that the combatant environments participated in this chapter of the broadcasts in a very cheap dimension. Minister, I'm already talking about veterans, not opposition people. They haven't changed their size at all. Except for the miners, Mr. President seems to have leaked about the exiles, about the veterans... But this basic corps, which is already leaving, which in our eyes disappears because of the transition to eternal watch, has merely, as I say, the valorization of its benefits. It's good, except this valorization is 1,20 zlotys. In the case of a widow That's even less. And that is why, I think, the ambition of the Senate, which has always dealt with these issues, which was the first to determine independence, which is symbolized by the white eagle hanging here... The Senate should be in agreement with the adoption of this law, as I appeal to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Jan Rulewski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Mammoth, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, could you tell us what the Minister of Labour's opinion was about this bill, and have you considered what the cost of implementing this law could be?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u154	Thank you, Senator, for pointing out that this has indeed been the subject of the committee's work, and I have not informed the High House of this. The opinion of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy was based on support for the position of the Veterans' Office. The Office for Veterans' Affairs focused mainly on the competences arising from the operation of this badge. He thought it was a task. Not for the Veterans' Office, it indicated, as I remember the IPN, what was taken into account. The Veterans' Office also pointed out that it's growing a lot. This phenomenon has not been noticed for the first time. The number of widows' benefits. Well, we're not the ones who manage the age of widows leaving this world, because women live longer than men. And it's a good thing someone lives longer than men. It's a good thing somebody's been alive longer than that. Though it would seem that there should be equality here. This is not the best solution because it changes, as it were, the structure of the office's operation, which should actually be directed towards those who built these routes. Commissions have established in the course of their work the process has been going on for almost a year and a half. That advice should be sought, that the environment should be consulted here mentioned, oppositional and persecuted. And, indeed, such a late opinion has arrived. She's negative, I say. She's negative. The environment has a negative opinion on the law and, as a reason, is that there is a legislative initiative in preparation that significantly extends these powers, especially financial ones. Well, that's almost the end of the term. No initiative has taken place so far. And we are faced with a choice, against expectations that will last for a very long time. Senator Mątkow remembers perfectly well that the time to process these projects is usually a year or two, or even longer. And people are leaving. By the way, by the way, these widows... I forgot about this thread, that of those 13,000 applications and 11,000 decisions made... Shortly after the decisions on these benefits were made, more than 200 people died. We know what it came from. From the delay. So that sometimes this witness is only symbolic. There were also the views of the Minister of Finance in which cost verification was requested. The Office for Veterans in Poland was still trying to count how many of these signs were there. Well, in my opinion, he overreacted because there aren't even so many graves in Poland. And since everyone in the cemeteries is lying, men and women... In general, men were involved in these activities. I think this opinion is polemic. It won't be so easy to assemble it on existing graves. It will be easier to install it on graves that will be created, because they will already be designed for it or will be fitted with a sign. There was an amendment to determine the possibility of complaining in case of refusal, because the mark will be issued after verification by the IPN. It's not gonna be the result of a document, it's gonna be issued after it's been verified. The overall cost here was designed at the level of 30 million on the assumption that 100,000 characters per year will be issued.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more... [[Me too.]] Senator Gogacz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u156	The Legislative Commission has discussed the draft twice. The meeting was also attended by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, Mr Jan Józef Kasprzyk. The meeting ended so that the opposition council was to express its opinion. The Council for Anti-Communist Opposition Activists and the People Repressed from Political Reasons expressed a negative opinion. You've already mentioned that. But what did I want to ask you about your opinion? She did not support the proposed changes, expressing the view that the proposed changes would unfortunately not fulfil the article by any means. 19 Polish Constitution, which obliges the Polish state to ensure a decent standard of living for people who have contributed to obtaining the desired freedom, etc. It's like the note was coming through at the committee meeting. Would you mind referring to that statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u157	Yes. It was in the work on this and previous laws that, to my knowledge, one of the broadest consultation processes was carried out. All the environments and even individuals took part in it. There was a written correspondence. There is no denying that most of the environments covered by this law are potentially or directly critical of the amount of benefits and give 2 arguments. The first is that it's charity. In the first version, it's even straight... That was right, because it was revenue-dependent. It was thanks to Senator Mammoth's actions that this income threshold was abolished only in such one-off benefits... And the second argument: there is such a belief that today, even after these two debubbishing laws, the perpetrators have more benefits than the victims. And the pursuit of these environments and this initiative was to be But it doesn't exist. • equalisation of this level. I'd say I'd do it myself. You asked me for an opinion. He didn't take it. Well, you can't compare people who didn't calculate when they went out for demonstrations, printed flyers, formed organizations, spent many years in prisons, with those who did it for money, thoughtlessly, and at the side of a foreign power. In my opinion, these benefits are misunderstood by activists. I, too, am an anti-communist opposition activist. They're not the wages of fighting, they're the compensation of harm. There's no price to compensate for years in prison, even if this prison lasts a short time. It took longer than that. Well, how can I compensate for the death of the priests, but also those soldiers of Uncle? Yeah, soldiers of the Solidarity of the Uncle. How to compensate in Lublin... Am I right? [[In Lubin.]] ...in Lubin, Cracow? There's no amount, there's no amount to compensate for that sacrifice. And yet there were people out of the country, forced... fired from work. Some of them say that they still remember today that they participated in demonstrations or for example. lack of willingness to work Yeah, I'm talking about miners who didn't come to work on Saturday nights, causing them to fall to... The bill said they could be hired, but at the lowest rate. This later resulted, in this capitalized system, in a reduced pension Well, it still works today. And that's why this attempt to make amends, which is to make up for how he'd work... He wasn't fighting, he was working, just like the authorities said. Well, the widows' problem is also debatable, that's true. And yet it's deepened by the fact that we don't know which widow she belongs to, what relationship this family had, or whether she even had this widow... I think it was you, Mr. Chairman, who asked the question: what about the bachelor? Who's gonna get it from him? Concubine? Well, there's no solution here, unfortunately. I've consulted with a lot of people, and there's no solution here. We are on the basis of family law, which only recognizes a relationship between a man and a woman, of course understood as a marriage. It's either church marriage or civil marriage. Otherwise... I warn you, if we were to accept a broader interpretation, it would mean a recognition of concubines and other relationships. Therefore, it is a solution, I would say conservative, on the basis of the family code, to receive this widow who accompanied the deceased in the last days or, if there is no such widow, the person who arranged the funeral for this activist. So that I don't think we should give in to this philosophy to make it even, because the same people... they didn't work with the same motives. Although I think things are gonna get better, the problem is that we want to win over time and this bill at least in this form. I'm not saying that this is the last word and that this is the best solution, but today we don't have another one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll start like in the previous point, i.e. against the reservation that the official position of the government was not expressed during the work in committee or committees, and that the family, labour and social policy ministry was, as it were, a servant role in the work of the committee. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy expressed his views on the proposals contained in the Senate draft law in a letter dated 9 January 2019 addressed to the President of the Senate Legislative Commission, Mr Stanisław Gogach. This is a critical opinion on these proposals. I would like to start with the following conclusion: At the same time, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy appreciates and considers it worthwhile to consider any initiatives aimed at improving the situation of combatants and victims of war and post-war repression, as well as former opponents and politically repressed persons. However, in view of all of the above explanations relating to the detailed proposals contained in the draft law, in the assessment of the Ministry, the proposed law in its present form contains solutions which are not accurate or unfinished, and it is therefore not possible to support this initiative without substantial changes in its content. With regard to our comments on the specific proposals contained in this project, it can be said that each of these 3 proposals, which in fact consist of a proposal for regulation contained in this project, we have made appropriate comments. With regard to the first proposal, i.e. the proposal to grant widows or widows after anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons the right to provide money, we draw attention to 2 issues. This means, first of all, that the projector treats in a uniform way 2 categories of persons who, under the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed, have a different status. Namely, he treats similarly those who are being repressed, those who were victims of repression related to their opposition activities, as well as those who have the status of opposition activist. We draw attention to the fact that it does not seem reasonable to assume that the reasons for the ailment were the participation of all families of persons with a confirmed status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons. Another remark is the one Senator Rulewski mentioned just now. Namely, it is a remark that refers to the question that at the time of death of a person with the status of anti-communist opposition activist or the person being oppressed this widow or this widower Because these are allowances addressed to both categories of spouses It is not necessarily the same person who accompanied a person who was repressed or an anti-communist opposition activist when this activity was conducted. And here, the senator himself confirmed that there is actually no proposal to solve this problem, this dilemma. Now, the second proposal contained in the bill is the additional benefit granted to those who were repressed, who, due to repression, had no opportunity to take up work. We would like to draw attention to the risks associated with the approach to these proposals as proposals that are unevenly treated by those who were victims of post-war repression, from 1944 to 1956, and who, under the current rules, do not have the right to such a benefit and could be in the same situation, for example. they could lose their jobs, they couldn't get a job because of their opposition or anti-communist activities. I know the senator modified his earlier proposals. This proposal that the maximum amount of benefit that could be granted to such persons should correspond to the amount of minimum wage for work, which is currently the amount of PLN 2 000 250... Mr. Senator changed this proposal, reduced it to half of the lowest pension. But that doesn't change the nature of the problem, because people who were victims of post-war repression were in a similar situation, i.e. they couldn't find a job or lost a job, they couldn't benefit from such a benefit. This is why we refer to the position of head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Allow me to quote this position. The Head of Office has stated that the proposal may affect the constitutional imperative of equal treatment of persons in a similar factual situation. He emphasized that the proposal was embezzled by the principle that the law on opposition activists had been formulated so far, i.e. that its beneficiaries should not have, in view of the wording of the Article. 19 constitutions, more powers than veterans. This principle has been accepted as right Mr Kasprzyk, and here the head of office, refers to the opinion of the community of anti-communist opposition activists themselves. So that this opinion, this position has also been accepted as the right environment of the anti-communist opposition activists themselves. With regard to the third proposal, the proposal to entrust the head of the Office to the Veterans' Affairs and People's Repressed Powers to issue a grave mark, the senator referred to our arguments. We note that on 22 November 2018 was passed and on 1 January 2019 the law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland entered into force. This law entrusted the obligation to create and keep records of the graves of the heroes of fights from 1768 and 1963 to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals. We would be dealing with a conflict, a cross between competences in this area, and therefore we are also raising reservations about this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay a little longer, because... [[Can I speak as rapporteur?]] [[Voice from the room: But now there will be questions.]] [[But I think I have the right to speak out of order. No?]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to hear, because Senator Jan Rulewski did not answer me specifically what the cost of implementing this law would be.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u162	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This was the second task we undertook, that is to estimate the costs of implementing this project. In total, as far as the costs of all 3 proposals are concerned, I would immediately point out that these are costs relating to the 10-year duration of the provisions of the Law for the whole public finance sector, these costs would be, I would say, a net of PLN 604 million. [[A year?]] No, in ten years. This amount consists of an increase in the expenditure of the public finance sector by PLN 704 million. However, I would like to point out that the draft law provides for the possibility of charging up to the maximum 50 PLN for issuing this grave mark by the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, so this cost could be reduced in a scale of 10 years by 100 million PLN. Thus, the total amount of the public finance sector's costs for this purpose is PLN 604 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u163	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u164	Thank you. First, the question, which is as if the continuation of certain doubts of Senator Mammoth. How many times and what amounts was returned by the Minister And you are his superior to the state budget as untapped funds? Can you quote that? Is it true that the committee asked, however, to manage these amounts and the answer was negative? Second question. What is the difference between the benefits to the veterans and those who are being repressed, which you show here, in terms of constitutional standards? And is it true that the opposition activists' environment does not operate on the basis of the law on combatants, but specialities consciously, intentionally? Is it true that the combatant environments demand much more? What is the minister's position towards these... And does the Minister intend to support this position, help these organizations to edit it? And the third issue. Does the Minister, in fact, the entire government, because the Minister in civil law is probably not expert, know how to solve the problem of the generally understood inheritance mass after the deceased husband or wife, solve differently than our codes? Unless it adopts western solutions in which it is possible to transfer assets to concubines, concubines, LGBT spouses in various civil matters. Another question. Are you the Minister of... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I did not take anything to write. Can I have a pen...]] I'll remind you. Did the Minister follow the situation of any community of anti-communist opposition activists and the consequences of the persecution of this environment? Because it seems to me that in your statement there is an elementary lack of knowledge, which especially in the case of the minister, who, however... which in the case of the vice-ministers who were activists of the anti-communist opposition, is... Can you accept, Minister, that the widow didn't know or didn't want to know... I'm sorry that the wife didn't want to know what her husband was doing or the other way around? Was it possible to build such walls that no one knew anything and had no effect? Do you know of such a simple phenomenon that if your husband was fired, he didn't receive food stamps? And if he didn't get food stamps, neither did his wife. Are you even familiar with the common and everyday life of the opposition? Because you come to the conclusion that these are two different entities, two different people who had no relationship with each other. [[Mr. Senator, you're overreacting.]] Well, that's the opinion. [[I know, but...]] That's the opinion. And is it true that witnessing to opposition activists in the bill is included as half of what is received by veterans' widows, and not only after them, because also after other persons covered by this law, i.e. miners' soldiers, soldiers of the Battalions of the peasants, persecuted?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u165	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u166	The first question concerned benefits received by veterans' widows. I can say that today these are amounts consisting of a compensatory allowance and a lump sum of energy. That's about PLN 204 in total. The senator proposes to grant to widows after activists of the anti-communist opposition and after those who have been repressed witnessing at the level of PLN 426 58... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Please correct the Minister.]] I'm sorry, half that amount. Yeah, okay, okay. [[I ask you to read the text of the bill and not mislead the High House.]] Half of this amount, so that's the amount... [[Right.]] [[Mr. Senator, you don't need these emotions.]] ...213 zł 29 gr. [[That's insolence.]] I have the right, as a law professor, to feel offended by the senator's statement that I don't know civil law. [[Voice from the room: Yes, of course.]] I would like to say that I have the right to feel offended by him, as well as by the statement of the senator that I have no idea what life was like in the period of the Polish People's Republic, i.e. before 1989. I think, Mr. Senator, if we were looking for solutions for people who wanted to share their wealth, as the senator states here, we would see that these solutions are in force today. A person who wishes, as the senator says, to share his estate has the opportunity to make a will. This is the form... [[The benefits are not covered by the will.]] ...to share a piece of work, so to speak, life. We have similar solutions in the social security system. A family pension is a solution designed to enable a widower or widower to maintain their livelihood in the event of death. This is the benefit that a widower or widower is entitled to. This is the benefit derived from the death of the host of the family. And I don't think that's necessary... [[And the concubine can be handed over?]] Of course... [[Concubines can be handed over?]] [[Mr. Senator, don't mess with me like that. This really isn't the Senate level of discussion. There will be a debate, and you will be able to speak.]] [[Will there be time?]] As far as the will is concerned, yes, you can be a stranger... [[Family pension?]] You can't limit yourself to whether it's a concubine or a concubine. A person not related to an heir may be an heir to the will, so... [[Family pension?]] I think that would...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u167	Thank you, Minister. Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u168	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask a question just about these cash benefits to a widower or widower. You said that the oppressed and veteran environments themselves challenged this principle or the offer of these benefits. I was at that committee meeting, and it was the opposite. Former repressed environments and combatants... I'm sorry, there were no combatants, but they were repressed, and they were outraged, only with the amount of those benefits. They just wanted them to be higher. However, there was no speech, God forbid, about the possible alignment of levels or the total refusal to accept these benefits. Could you identify the environments that opposed the introduction of this benefit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u169	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u170	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, I also attended this committee. I remember the words of Minister Kasprzyk, who was asked if there was work on a project that would more comprehensively solve these problems formulated by the community of anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed. And I remember his assurances, information that such work was undertaken within the Council of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, just the Council of Veterans and Repressed Persons. So that I know that this kind of initiative was taken there. And I think that these words that I quoted and which were also expressed in the position are also the result of this information that we received at that time. [[Can I just add a word?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u171	Yeah, ask around. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. But, Minister, you also remember my proposal. Because the bill was already prepared and we have already examined it, and I am talking about the proposal made by Senator Rulewski. To get into work... or both gentlemen to meet and to have a joint procession. And as of today, we only have one project. Because no project was prepared and submitted by the office. Therefore, we can only talk about this one project. And in this connection, we're discussing whether or not any environments are questioning... We can only rely on those statements. I'd like us to just... This is not a question, of course, but I would like to say, by excluding any discussion, that waiting for the next project is... As the Minister knows, there will be an election in three months, and then... Well, there's one Lord God knows what the outcome will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u173	Thank you very much. The question you want to ask is Senator Robert Mammets. [[No, I'm here to discuss...]] It's for discussion. Good. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't? I don't see any calls. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion, ladies and gentlemen. Senator Grażyna Sztark will be the first to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! As much has already been said, in fact everything about the content of this law or the necessity of this law, I will no longer take the floor. I would just like to thank Senator Rulewski for asking for justice for those who have been repressed since the beginning of his parliamentary activity, but also for their families, as this bill also shows. Thank you very much. But to me, and certainly to all of you, to your offices, there were requests, requests... We also heard, as I said at the committee meeting, bitter words about the amount of these allowances or widows' and widowers' salaries, as well as requests for an increase. They were in it, among others. just requests to increase this benefit to widows and widowers from 50% to the full. I know it means extra costs, but, as the senator said, the time of these people being repressed, involved in anti-communist activities, is already gone. "These people are leaving, often having very low wages, but they are also often lonely, so this funding will not apply to them. But you have to remember. here also about the people closest to you, about the people closest to you being repressed. They were often also people who were subjected to pressure and persecution. They were kicked out of work, too. It looked different at different times. They also lost their health and wages. This was also mentioned at this committee meeting. Mrs. Marshal, therefore, my proposal, which I am making to your marshal, is a proposal for a bill to be drafted in order in the article in point six of the letter. b in the amendment order, replace the reference to the provisions 1a to 1c by the words: 1a and 1b. The mouth shall also be deleted. 1b and the previous paragraph. 1c shall be indicated as the mouth. 1b. In short, this is about change. We delete this statement with a 50% supplement, there is a 100% supplement. I would also like to make a request to your marshal to set a deadline for the committees to draw up an additional report which will allow for a third reading at the current Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u175	Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Senator Shark, for giving me a heads-up on this request to settle this case at last. These environments are waiting, the delay is quite large. Besides, in the case of these laws, as I stressed Nobody's gonna deny it. It's always been long. But it is not important to pay attention to procedures, but first of all to the reality. And the actual state of affairs is that these are the elderly and will probably no longer benefit from both the fruits of the previous and this law, especially since unfortunately, Minister, the rules are being exceeded in this discussion, which... Well, it doesn't play with a civil servant, and yet Unfortunately, I have to stress that to a member of the union. Because if you're misusing your knowledge, and you've got a big one, to say that a family pension is a will service... To be honest, I'd like to make sure that retirement is a witness. We're talking about common, social, constitutionally defined security, the ZUS, the KRUS and other... In fact, the fact that any benefits of this type, family and non-family, I would say, resulting from the laws of combatants and constitutionals, were possible to dispose of, unless the law indicates otherwise... To be honest, maybe my allegations of knowledge are wrong, only that you simply misinformed the House of such opportunities. You can't give a family pension to anyone but your children and your spouse. She's under the law. Not by the will of the insured, but by the power of the law. It is similar with pensions and other benefits. In particular, such benefits are not subject to inheritance and are not covered by any civil law. At the moment of death, they cease, and no one can have them. Plus, you haven't answered the question yet, Minister, which is bothering you, that your resort I don't know if you It is not able to manage the funds allocated by the High House by Parliament, which certainly determined the expenditure for this year for 70 million and spent less than 40 million. Given what even Senator Gogacz calls for here, that these environments demand more, this proposal is very moderate not to say too cheap. And that's the reason for the negative position of the stinginess of this proposal. But, Minister, nothing stands... You know that in the Constitution, you have an obligation to cooperate with the authorities, that is, if Parliament, the Senate has come up with something, you have a duty to cooperate with it, not just to criticize it. Of course, criticism may also be called cooperation, but yours is beyond those limits because you speak untruthful. You said I offered the entire amount for a widow and a widower, and that's a terrible lie. Many times it was emphasized that only half You didn't even listen to me today that only half of this benefit. And you're not telling the whole truth either, because only some of the groups in the Combat Act get 200 zlotys. Some get 380 zlotys, that depends on the group. You didn't say that anymore. So you're lost in these finances. Well, it's even more surprising to say who would decide... Well, I've heard a lot of criticism from you about other relationships than married couples, whether in church or at the civil status office. I asked you if there was a solution in our legislation that allowed good. And that's the good that's set out in the Act after the activist or after the activist to pass it on to others. And when I accuse you of not knowing... Well, maybe I'm out of it, but I'm sure I'm holding up a worse charge. I'm talking about telling you the wrong thing. I presume you don't know the life of the veterans. If you're offended, I'm sorry to accuse you of not knowing, but I'm sure I'm holding up a worse charge. That you're just lying. And the lie is that... well, the repression was under the family... All right, you're giving false information. They were covered by the family. I'm directing this to you. When you're close... you were, as I recall... Well, the Romaszewskis, the Uncles, the Kuronis, the Ones... Well, a 12-year-old girl was stopped on the street and forced to testify where Dad's hiding. This bill doesn't talk about these girls. And the Combat Law e.g. Says if someone was born in a stalking facility or in UB prisons and was there one day It seems it was the Senator's initiative. This is granted to him by veteran rights. It's not here! There is no privilege here for a child who was suddenly left unattended and only the goodwill of the neighbors, because not always the family, caused care to take place. Maybe I shouldn't say this, but I have this authority because he's my activist. The Schetyn marriage was interned, and the child was alone. Neighbor before she got interested. So why are you saying that the status of these people is incomparable, shouldn't it be tied up? Besides, it's the tradition of other countries, please read, here I accuse you of not knowing. In general, widows, although not everywhere, agree, not in Lithuania, or widows are taken care of by the veteran state. And that's what happens in many countries. I don't know what else you... Well, vague and untrue statements about the fact that you've been making comments. We accepted these comments. It is not the veterans' office that is to carry out the question of grave marking, as you are constantly and monotonously telling the House here, but, as the IPN wanted, the IPN is to deal with this issue. Because it's the legislation department and the IPN itself. I've consulted it. This is a comprehensive solution. And you keep telling me that the creator wants the Veterans' Office to make these shoes. Although I think he could do it. Finally, there is an important issue. You're the one who brought it up. It's a matter of some justice. In so far as the benefits to the opposition differ from the benefits to the veterans and whether or not we are in breach of such a kind of equality, consensus. We, at the time of the bill's design, a few years ago, assumed that there was a primacy for the veterans, because the area of suffering, often ended with the deaths of these people and the widowing, was much greater, that torture, persecution were much more eloquent, and the consequences even worse. Therefore, this law, as far as the scope of benefits is concerned, was merely following the combatant environments. And time has shown that some benefits have changed their value and character. The Kombatant environments benefited You should know that very well, because you really know the insurance law, most of the people in the veteran environment have benefited from 2 pension rights. First, Minister, write it down and see that I'm not lying, that these people have retired five years earlier, yes, five years earlier. Did you write that down? I'm asking you to write it down. So that gave the privilege of early retirement. And the period of persecution, mostly it was war, it counted double, so when he was four years old in the war, he was eight years old, and so the veteran retired at the age of 52, if he wanted to, of course. Today, there is no such possibility, no lower retirement age nor for veterans who are now entitled, nor for those who are opposed. And a second right. I'd like you to check it out, too. The point was that the pension system was neutral or indifferent to capital, to the contribution made, which is no longer there today. This correction for the 10 zlotys is not an overtaking, as you said in your opinion, of the veterans' environments in terms of privileges. This is the compensation for the injury that resulted from the fact that the capital of the person remaining outside the workplace was dead, was frozen, which is reflected in the retirement benefit today. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I would therefore ask you, however, to give a written confirmation of the opinions you have made here, indicating the data, dates, means and events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Robert Mammoth. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! I'd like to start with a little... It is said about the Senate that the Senate is the House of Reflection, that here thoughts are subdued, statements are subdued. Well, Senator Jan Rulewski emotionally approached this bill today, and I think it's emotional, and I think you deserve an apology. So that I, on behalf of the Senators of the Minister, apologize. I will say this: I fully agree with the idea that a group of Senators from the Civic Platform reported, only we make the same mistake all the time, and in the previous term, when you were in charge, and in the one where you were in opposition, because there were a lot of things for people who were working today, who are in a difficult situation that needs to be helped... And you, Mr. Marshal, and you, Mrs. Senator, and you, Mr. Janie, we should go together, hand in hand, and try to help these people, make a bill so that we can all support it. Then we'd do something good for these people. And not three months before the election, you're trying to make a bill that basically... You often express yourself in such a way that we have presented a bill written on your knees, a booze. That's an example of a bullshit like that. That's the example of a bullshit like that. I have a heartfelt request to always remember that if we are to do a good thing for another man, then not to be guided by emotions, not to be cyclically, politically, just to do it, just as you did, Mr. Marshal, in the 1980s and before the 1980s, just as you, Mrs. Grażyno, acted, you know what that means. We are in such a situation today that we do not need help, but I know that many activists from those years have to be helped. It's just always like this. I think we're making a mistake here too. That we want to help everyone. And I think that first you have to take care of those who are in a difficult situation, start with them, start helping them, and then eventually move on to helping those who are not necessarily doing well, but better. So that's all I'm gonna... I'd like us to think about going together in future in situations like this. Then we'll really get more for those people who need help today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u179	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. You have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Grażyna Sztark. The discussion is closed... [[No, I'm still here.]] Oh, well, I'm sorry. Sorry, yeah, it's indistinctly written. So the legislative proposals were made by Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Senator Grażyna Sztark has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2018. The text of the report is contained in print No 1214. I ask Senator Robert Mammothov to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions of the petitions that were examined in 2018. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u180	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 June 2019, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions adopted a report on the petitions considered in 2018. This report is quite extensive, I will not present it as a whole, I will allow myself a shortcut, and if there are questions, I will be happy to answer them. By fulfilling the annual obligation under Article. 90f of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions shall submit to the Senate a report on the petitions which it considered in 2018. Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 in the section "Freedom and political rights," in Article. 63 provides for the possibility for citizens to submit petitions, applications and complaints. This provision states that everyone has the right to submit petitions, applications and complaints in the public interest, his or her own or another person, with his or her consent, to public authorities and to organisations and social institutions in connection with their tasks. In addition, that provision shall include an authorisation to regulate the petition procedure in the law. The Act of 11 July 2014 on petitions implements constitutional provisions. It should be stressed that although the petition law entered into force on 6 September 2015, the Senate Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has been examining petitions for 10 years under the provisions of Section Xa of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Description of the working procedures of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. In accordance with the provisions of Section Xa of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, the Senate Marshal shall address the petitions sent to the Senate and its organs to the chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The chairman of the committee shall address the petitions to the committee meeting. The Commission, after considering the petition and establishing the link between the subject-matter of the petition and the House's competence, may exercise one of the three powers: apply to the Senate Marshal for a legislative initiative together with a draft law; authorise one of the members of the committee to submit a legislative proposal during discussions on a particular item on the agenda of the Senate; present an opinion to the Senate on the purpose of exercising the powers set out in the Constitution, the Act or the Rules of Procedure of the Senate by the Senate or by its authority. If the committee, after considering the petition, considers that the subject matter of the petition does not fall within the competence of the Senate, it may delegate it to the competent authority of the State, informing the Senate marshal accordingly. Following the examination of the petition, the committee also has the right not to take further action, as also reported by the Senate Marshal and indicates the reasons. The Commission shall inform the petitioner of the actions taken or the reasons for not taking them. In accordance with the procedure adopted for the examination of petitions, the Department of Petitions and correspondence of the Office of Analysis, Documentation and correspondence shall prepare information on the subject matter of the petition for each petition. It is a supporting material for the examination of the petition by the committee. Each information contains a presentation of the subject-matter of the petition, a description of the petition requests and their justification, as well as an analysis of the legal status of the issue and the possible legislative work on the subject. Each study shall be accompanied by a copy of the petitions and annexes sent by the petitioner and by selected acts, judgments of the courts, draft laws, publications or information on previous actions relating to the petition. Commission work on petitions in 2018 In 2018, the Senate Marshal sent 84 petitions to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, including 58 individual, 24 collective and 2 multiple petitions. In addition, the committee continued its work on 26 petitions in 2017. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions in 2018 dealt with 110 petitions at 23 meetings, each examining several petitions. On the Senate website at www.senat. gov.pl/petitions the list and description of petitions shall be made available and the work of the committee on petitions in stenographic records from meetings and in retransmissions of meetings shall be documented. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has adopted the procedure for the individual examination of each petition in the work on petitions. Only repeated petitions were dealt with together. After the petition was presented to the committee, a discussion was held on its demands, and information, opinions and positions were collected from the ministries involved in the subject matter of the petition and from experts. The meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of ministries, offices and other non-governmental institutions and organisations carrying out tasks in areas covered by petitions. In 2018, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, on the basis of the demands of the 6 petitions, prepared 6 draft laws, a decision was made on 25 petitions to continue work on them, and on the other petitions it was decided to complete or not to take action. In 2018, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions prepared 6 draft laws on the basis of the petitions under consideration. The first project is a draft law on the amendment of the law of the family and caring code, the law - Code of Civil Procedure and the law of the law of the criminal code. The aim of the project is to implement the requests for multiple petitioning, to introduce alternative custody as a priority for the exercise of parental authority, to clarify the execution of contacts with minors and to enforce judicial decisions in this respect. The second project is a draft law on amending the law of the administrative code of conduct. The aim of the project is to introduce the possibility of sending a letter to the post office of the universal postal service provider in another Member State of the European Union, which will be equivalent to a letter to the authority and the recognition that the required time limit for carrying out the activities has been respected. At its eighty-first meeting on 16 May 2019, the Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Code of Administrative Procedure − DZU poz. 1133. The third draft is a draft law on amending the law on criminal proceedings. The aim of the project is to recognise Saturday as a day equivalent to the date recognised by the Code as a day off from work, in order to determine the end of the time limit set for the execution of procedural activities. It was petition P9-49/17 - Senate print No 939. This project is underway in the Sejm. The fourth project is a draft law amending the Family Benefits Act. The aim of the project is to give people who are retiring because of taking care of their children because of their health, so-called. EWK's pension, a care provision equal to the difference between the current full amount of care and the paid EWK's pension. The fifth project is a draft law on amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism. The aim of the project is to require producers and distributors of alcoholic beverages to include on the product label information on the harmfulness of alcohol consumption by pregnant or breast-feeding women. In addition, the project provides for an extension of the obligation to inform pregnant and breastfeeding women of alcohol harm to all advertising and promotional communications relating to beer. Project 6 is a draft law on amending the Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist, the Law on Laboratory Diagnosis and the Act on Competitions of Nurse and Midwives. The project involves introducing the possibility of stopping a doctor, laboratory diagnostics, as well as a nurse and midwife from performing health services and certain orders incompatible with their conscience, except in cases where delay in granting assistance or execution of an order could result in a risk of life loss, severe injury or severe health disorder. It is worth noting that the Act adopted on the basis of the petition is the Act of 16 May 2019 amending the Law on Police and certain other laws which implemented the petition P9-04/17 and is contained in the Senate print No 560. The purpose of the amendment proposed in the petition is to allow legal rehabilitation and return to the acquitted service in criminal proceedings of a police officer who has been discharged from the service because of a disciplinary penalty for expulsion from that service for an act which at the same time serves as a criminal offence and a disciplinary offence. The same changes include provisions on officers, among others. Border Guard, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Military Intelligence Service and Military Counterintelligence Service and Prison Service. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on 18 petitions, ending the work, decided to refer information on the petition applications to: Government Legislative Centre. conclusions from 10 petitions; the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Proposals from 5 petitions; the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy; the conclusions from 2 petitions; the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage; the conclusions from 1 petitions. The Commission has requested that consideration be given to the possibility of including the requests contained in these petitions in the regulations designed in the resorts. In the petitions dealt with by the committee in 2018, the petitioners proposed inter alia. on amendments to the Veterans' Act and on the situation of the oppressed. Here I would like to go back to the previous point, because, as I said, it was the human rights committee that most often came up with projects that involved the oppressed and the veterans, and this also needs to be remembered. Those who were in the previous term of office remember that even this law, which gave the opposition activists these 400 zlotys, also came out of the Human Rights Committee. The petitioners also called for: amendments to civil law and civil and administrative procedures; 6 petitions; amendments to criminal law and criminal procedure; 5 petitions; amendments to the law on public roads, road traffic and transport; 4 petitions; changes in taxes, financial procedures, perpetual use; 4 petitions; changes in family and caring law; 3 petitions; changes in family pension law, pensions and 3 petitions; changes in the social security system, State aid for the upbringing of children; 2 petitions; changes in the situation of people with disabilities and their carers; changes in environmental protection; 2 petitions; amendments to the Polish Constitution concerning referendums and the rights of persons with disabilities; 2 petitions. I am reading this to you because it gives you an idea of how many issues are dealt with in petitions that are addressed to the Human Rights Committee. I would also like to mention examples of individual petitions concerning the following matters: Petition procedures, making public information available, freedom of conscience and religion, protection of health, the rights of minors, giving awards and decorations, the linkability of implementing the mandate of a Member and a Senator, the functioning of the National Tax Administration, police officers and uniformed services, association rights, press law, broadcasting time on radio and television, housing cooperative and consumer rights. The Marshal of the Senate, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, and other Senate bodies and statutory units of the Senate Office receive numerous correspondence. When we analyse letters registered in 2018 in the Department of Petitions and correspondence at the Bureau of Analysis, Documentation and correspondence, we can conclude that in 129 letters, without multiple petitions, the authors of correspondence titled their letters as petitions, although they did not contain proposals or proposals to amend legislation. Following an analysis of the affected petitions to the committee, 83 petitions were addressed, including 2 multiple petitions One of them supported by 1 thousand 367 individuals and collective entities. In the case of 16 petitions, there were the conditions set out in Article. 6 of the Act of 11 July 2014 on petitions of the Senate was not the appropriate addressee for their consideration. In this group of petitions were requested to amend the provisions of regulations or detailed laws, and for this reason petitions were sent to the Government Legislative Centre 15 petitions, and the Ministry of Energy 1 petition. The petitioners were informed of their petition being sent to the relevant parties. After examining the number of petitions addressed to the Senate in 2018, we must emphasise their increased impact. A total of 84 petitions were received, i.e. an increase of 31 in relation to 54 petitions sent in 2017. A number of letters entitled "petitions', which were addressed to the Department of Petitions and correspondence at the Office of Analysis, Documentation and correspondence at the Senate Office, could not be issued in a constitutional manner, mainly because they did not contain legislative proposals and their authors presented their cases before the judicial authorities or local authorities, expressed polemicism or dissatisfaction with decisions, decisions or decisions. A significant part of the correspondence sent as petitions were written by those who shared opinions, comments and criticism on the application and observance of the law. Of course, they weren't petitions. The senders of this correspondence received a written reply from the Department of Petitions and correspondence at the Bureau of Analysis, Documentation and correspondence containing information or clarification. I will conclude by saying that a detailed presentation of the petition can be read, as I said earlier, on the Senate's website at the senate's address. gov.pl/petitions where the list and description of petitions are made available. In short, I have presented to you what the committee is doing and what petitions it is dealing with. One thing that is imposed is that the scope of these petitions is very wide. Often the committee has to assist with opinions from the ministries. It is most often the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Family. If any of the people who sent the petitions to the committee wants, they can always come to the committee meeting, they can listen to the discussion. That's often the case. However, sometimes people do not come, even when they are invited to strengthen their rations, but the committee also examines such petitions and takes decisions after a thorough examination, after discussion and after a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of you senators like to ask the committee rapporteur a question? No. Thank you... [[I'm gonna...]] Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u182	Senator, on 28 May, the committee considered a petition for the inclusion in the Polish Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems Act. After presenting his position on this issue, the president of the agency Krzysztof Brzózka was fired from work. Do you know this and will the President intervene in this matter? Because if this thing works, it hits you as president, it hits the committee. And I am afraid that, after such an example, there will be problems with the formulation of their positions, the parties will have problems with the formulation of their scenarios. Are you aware of this situation, or do you know that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u183	I don't know about that. This is the first time I've heard of it from you, Mr. Marshal. If you have any accurate knowledge, not just that someone said that, I'll come to you, you'll give me exactly what and how, and we'll wonder what to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u184	Thank you very much. [[Of course, I'll give you that knowledge. It's not some kind of newspaper knowledge.]] Thank you very much. [[...or, on the one hand, you told the other lady.]] Good. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Excuse me, just one sentence, because I forgot, Mrs. Marshal...]] Get in the microphone. [[July 11th, 5 years after the petition law was passed.]] [[Voices from the room: Into the microphone.]] But I'll get off the stand if you want. [[No, I'm done.]] [[Why don't you repeat the senator to the microphone?]] Yes, sir. Mrs. Marshal, as Senator Mammoth reminded us just now, it is exactly 5 years since the petition bill was passed today. This is actually a moment for reflection. And we had this reflection at the committee meeting. And not only is this report by the President, which we have heard today, but the whole committee meeting clearly shows how important petitions play in our system. The fact that citizens have such a direct opportunity to present ready solutions... Well, the social function of this bill is, I think, overrated. And all the more so, after almost eight years on this committee, I have some comments for the last four years. I very much regret that our committee, which should be dealing with citizens' rights, which should have on a daily basis for every law that goes through it, special attention to the fact that these laws are consistent with all human rights standards... I regret that all the laws that we've dealt with for four years on justice, the legal order... most of them have been going through this committee, not the Legislative Commission, as they were at the beginning of this term and in previous terms. I regret twice that this committee had to deal with certain things, laws and projects for political reasons, for which sensitivity should oblige committee members to take a much more critical position on political solutions which, in my view, and not just mine, violated civil rights and were in general problematic from the point of view of the Constitution. How important are these petitions... In fact, this 5-year anniversary makes us focus more on this part of our work. The President has just mentioned a petition on parental alienation. The Commission, together with the citizens who brought it in, has worked very hard on this solution. It was very important for a few million citizens. The scale of the problem of parental alienation, the fact that children don't have access... This is often even contrary to judgments, judgments of the courts. This is the scale of a few million citizens and parents and children. The work on this petition has been frozen by the decision of the marshal and by the decision of the majority of this House. I am very disappointed that even those members of the 2 committees who had previously voted in favour of these solutions, at a time when we asked twice for a petition to be put into session, voted in accordance with a political directive. I find this a terrible loss for all of us, for the Senate and for those millions of people whose problem will be unsolved. And the last thing Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked me just now. What happened is absolutely a cheek for our committee, because it's not unproven information. At a time when an official who cares about the system of training specialists in the field of addiction psychotherapy and drug therapy instructors dared to support the petition, very important for which we have actually decided... We shared these concerns and let it go further, it is in the legislative process. This man was immediately released, a man who had outstanding achievements in this field and who is an authority in this field. And this was only related to the fact that at the committee meeting we questioned the way and links with the Members of the governing majority concerning the attempt to format these trainings completely differently. And I absolutely, 100% share what he was talking about here just now, asking, Mr. Marshal, that this case should be displayed by the Human Rights Commission. And I will also urge the President to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u186	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Five years ago, we took off, probably on July 11th, with a new petition law that fulfilled constitutional obligations, although the Senate had done so on a good basis in previous terms. It must be acknowledged that this possibility, which I would like to stress, of direct contact with the highest authorities, we are talking about the legislator - transparent contact, because when viewed on screens via the internet, contact not only by means of printing, because it is also possible to appear - it has developed intensively by 2016. Nomen omen do not know why this border has already proved to be the maximum limit. I think the day before yesterday there were meetings of different backgrounds and I explained it. It is true that this is the result of civic activity in general, especially organised by local governments. It is in local governments that 2 important areas of activity have been launched, such as civic budgets and citizens' initiatives, of course at regional level. This gives us a lot to think about when we talk about the role of self-government in society. And indeed, these initiatives have taken away many things that have come down from the Senate and the Sejm. But, as I say, in many local governments there are white spots - add for honesty. Of course, it is necessary to commend the Warsaw and Wrocław environments, which show very high activity in this area. It should also be added that a large promotional campaign was organised by the central authorities - posters, calls, information. And all of a sudden, we all agreed during this five-year business account that there is a shortage of these petitions, especially at local level, because of the indifference of many communities, such as young people or even foreigners living in our territory. But we agreed that the petition institution needs to be stepped up, and there is such a challenge for the Senate. According to current experts from backgrounds and significant foundations, the law also needs to be amended. Unfortunately, a kind of push has increased, citizens write petitions on the same subject, exactly the same one, to many institutions, e.g. able to take a legislative initiative. They're writing to the government, the Senate, the Sejm, the president, who's reported a large number of petitions. We can't deal with it and we're pushing these petitions from one institution to another. Above all, in the case of a petition, for which the maximum deadline is set for 3 months, i.e. it remains outside other deadlines, e.g. the month for the complaint, the proposal. Unfortunately, this deadline is not met, and with a growing trend, Mr President. This is directly proportional to the problem that is raised in the petition. E.g. There have been several petitions on the problem of disabled people, in fact granting benefits. It was agreed that the basis for resolving these problems was case law, the relevant case law. For 2 years, the government Unfortunately, we are moms, promises to develop and this term he has set does not respect. More, I'm sure the Senate will soon reach the bill, again, I'd say, an election that grants the disabled environment 500+. We'll all back it up. How's the money paid, then why should we counter it? But what's the problem with that? That we're burying the case-law system even more. Because if we grant so many different benefits, will there be anyone smart enough and brave enough to create a new system? Well, of course, if you keep your acquired rights. So he's not gonna do anything. And this is the result of the government's negligence, especially Mrs Rafalska, which, probably a year and a half ago or a year ago, promised that she would pass the assumptions to the case law system in Poland. That's not there. We have random, electoral-political actions, laughter and giggles, far from English and Anglo-Saxon or American solutions. And it's disturbing that we're starting to work more like an office than how What do I remember? Fighters of these citizens' activities or citizens' activists. The senator raised the matter of a certain border which has been crossed and has no right to be crossed. I'd call it a violation of the immunity of the committee. We appeal to the citizens instead of giving up, petition or the like, and it turns out and this has to do with the low number of petitions Whoever petitions or works with them will be punished. That's what happened to Mr. Birch. Indeed, he was dismissed after what he said, and he was not the only one. In front of me, I saw it, he physically scolded him. Of course he didn't. Minister for Health. He scolded him, let's face it. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] And as a result, there was an immediate resignation, and in the wake of this, of course, as usual, because you can already smile like that, the CBA control that detected of course... What did she detect, of course? Abuse, of course. So we have, on the basis of a minor case, of course, a Birch criminal. I'll see you later. I hope it's not behind bars. [[Time, Mr. Senator. Time.]] Of course! [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u188	Thank you. Senator Zbigniew Silence. [[Voice from the room: Congratulations.]] [[There you are, Jack, big guy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I'll start with that, too, of course. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Of course, it is the fifth anniversary of this law, which was, as you can see, necessary, because it formalized what the Senate had previously done on the basis of some generosity, voluntary and sympathy towards citizens, towards people who wrote petitions, presented certain problems that are to be solved at the moment. This is regulated, and the number of these petitions and their scope, the weight of these petitions, the gravity of the problems that are being taken there clearly show that people see different shortcomings in the legal regulations, and we, as a committee, undertake to make amends as far as possible and introduce them on the legislative path so that these deficiencies are removed. The number of these petitions is so large that it is indeed a heavy burden for our committee. And here is the glory of Mr. Marshal Sewerinski, who had previously led the commission, and also of Senator Mamątov, who now directs this committee, that we have no arrears, we are within these 30-day deadlines provided for in the bill for the settlement of the petition. I would like to add that this is such a very democratic way of influencing people's legislation, because there are no charges for it, and when people want to pursue certain claims, for example. In court, that unfortunately has to count for fees. There is no complicated procedure here, there are no complex requirements, petitioning is not subject to many requirements, except to identify the entity that is present and to identify the problem with which it is present, there is not all this formalism, which is in the judicial procedures, where it is necessary to specify exactly what is the subject of proceedings, what is possibly the law being violated. Although it must be admitted that people often prepare these petitions quite carefully, it is often seen that the eye of a lawyer is behind it. The best evidence that these initiatives are very often fruitful is in the form of what is then recognized at the Senate plenary meetings. It can be said that this is a kind of simple and fast legislative path, which, due to its less formalisation and rapid speed of action, is perhaps even more effective than those traditional forms of action which consist in the initiative first. whether it's government or parliamentary. It is therefore necessary to applaud this institution, to express its satisfaction that it exists, especially as it is a kind of replacement for such institutions that exist in the west of Europe, so-called. actio popularis, where everyone can go to court with certain cases that don't even touch him personally, but in the public interest. That's what it's like for a petition. Here you can perform not only with a problem that affects a particular person, a person with this petition, but you can come up with a general problem that someone sees, even if they do not personally concern him, so there is no legal interest in dealing with the matter in a specific way, as is the law. It is also a form that allows us to improve our legislation, as well as sometimes to see the shortcomings of this legislation, which we often have no idea about, because I honestly admit that there have been several cases where even I as a lawyer have surprised some huge gaps or absurdities in the legislation that people have seen, have petitioned on these matters, and we have tried to make amends. Once again, thank you very much to the presidents and our entire committee, which is so leaning on it and which, I think, works quite effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would Senator Robert Mammoth like to speak again? [[No.]] Thank you very much. And I thank Senator Robert Mammothov for presenting his report to the Senate. I state that the Senate has read the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2018. Thank you very much. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u191	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the consideration of applications submitted at the 80th Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the draft Act amending the Act on Anti-Communist Act and those repressed for political reasons and the Act on Combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression will take place tomorrow at 9.00 in room 176. Second message. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws will be held today in room 217 immediately after the announcement of the break.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-11-senat-82-2.u192	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 41]]
