ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e18	Things on yesterday's map [[No 3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e22	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e25	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose changes to the public law in order to strengthen the principle of public disclosure in the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e30	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e33	I am delighted on behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself to propose that public agencies exchange information between themselves in order to detect crime. Then I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself on the exemption from taxes on wealth managed by the Overforture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e40	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e53	In the public debate, there is usually the most attention to what is not working in our society. That's good, because the purpose of politics is to define the unresolved problems and then solve them. Then we need to know what's not working, what's failing. At the same time, we have to be careful not to see the long lines. In that case, we are at risk of choosing the wrong direction of society. I'll warn you against that. The main picture is that Norway is developing in the right direction. We are a growing country, with record employment, increased value creation and a growing population. These are happy developments in our country. Growth in the population is an expression of future faith and something positive. In Norway, growth is speeding up. There are several reasons why the population has never grown so rapidly in Norway. We live longer. We give birth to more children, and more move to Norway. All of this is an expression of something fundamentally good. Another uplifting expression for growth is that value creation is increasing. New businesses are coming. The number of jobs is increasing. Today we're 2.7 million Nordics going to work. Never before have so many nordics been working. It shows that we have succeeded with the most important thing: to secure the Norwegian economy. More than 300 000 new jobs have been created since 2005 — two out of three in the private sector. This is the symbol that the country is moving in the right direction. This week the Evening Post announced that last year was a jubilee for 3,308 Norwegian companies. The increased turnover had a significant growth in the number of employees and a positive equity. Optimism triggers entrepreneurship, creativity and willingness to invest your own money in your own business. That's good. Next year we're going on. The research will be strengthened. Even more road and track are to be built, and business start-ups and operations in Norway are to be even easier. We're taking new steps towards the goal of simplifying for 10 billion. kr for Norwegian holdings. The fact that evolution is in the right direction does not mean that all problems are solved. Many continue to fall outside the usual working life. We need jobs that are adapted to them. The government will contribute to this, for example: by following up the contract of inclusive work, and now sick leave is reduced. We will follow up the qualification programme for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, and we will introduce grants to employers who employ people with disabilities. A third expression for growth is that we become a more diverse and tolerant society. People move to Norway. Let's get out of here. New impulses, other impressions enrich the original Norwegian. We're growing as a nation. This can be achieved, for example, by: expression in high trust — trust among people and in society’s institutions. Trust is the foremost expression of society's social capital. High trust increases the possibility that each of us succeeds in our lives. High trust increases the community's ability to deal with crises. We build trust and increase our social capital on security and participation, for example. by giving everyone a kindergarten space at a price they can pay. Every day since 2005, 27 new kindergartens have been established in Norway – every single day! Now we're going to raise the quality of kindergartens. We're going to introduce a new kindergarten teacher education, and we're going to present our own big message about the future kindergarten. High participation is another premise for trust in society. We have a large and living voluntary sector in Norway. It covers approximately 90 000 layers and organisations. Nearly every two Nordics contribute — in sports, through cultural life, and through religious work. Norway is on the verge of volunteering. The government's aim is to stimulate increased participation. Therefore, next year we will step up support for volunteering further. We're going to be glad that Norway is basically a good society, and that the country is evolving in the right direction. But I want to warn you as strongly as I can against believing that this comes of itself, that Norway obviously succeeds – because we have the oil. It's not like that. Norway is developing in the right direction because we have managed the options wisely, thought long-term and acted responsibly. This concerns a number of important policy orientations, such as: that we jointly own the most valuable natural resources, that they are not privatised, that the revenues from oil and gas fall into the common treasury – high taxes ensure it – that the oil billions are managed for the best of the community, the rule of action ensures it, or that we have a large public sector, an organised working life, a heavy government ownership and an active industrial policy. These are examples of policy choices that have been and are controversial. We have always chosen the interests of the community. The counterclaims have been found on the right-hand side. It is our task to learn from history – which tells us that it is in good times that you make mistakes, chooses the wrong direction, which next time triggers setbacks and problems. A major challenge for Norway is economic unrest and setbacks in Europe. Our most important task is to keep the economy in order, not gamble with the use of oil money. It's gambling with Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian housing rate. This government has shown that it stands for long-term responsibility. Our direction is firm. I am concerned about trends in the question of oil money use, the very foundation of economic policy. The Progress Party has never accepted the Action Rule. The Party wishes to steer economic policy in a different direction and to pursue a self-constructed rule of action. Right-wing speakers have mentioned this in positive terms and do not require clarification of the issue of oil money before the elections. This creates uncertainty, and the uncertainty did not diminish in the course of yesterday's debate. Such uncertainty does not deserve Norwegian companies. They deserve long-termity and predictability, not uncertainty and experimentation. In good times it may be very tempting to choose solutions that are popular in the short term, to ignore challenges in the future and to give in to demands for more for all good purposes. This is to leave the bill to the next generation. It's leading the country in the wrong direction. The direction of the government is to secure the future by investing in knowledge and work. We want education and research across the country. Ideas shall flourish, free thoughts shall be thought, and new boundaries shall be blown. This is how we stimulate innovation and re-establishment. This is how we encourage the next generation of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. The key to quality in school is good qualified teachers. For many years the teaching profession was spoken down, and the search for the profession fell. Now we're betting on knowledge, and the search for the teaching profession is going up sharply. The municipalities can afford to hire teachers again. We have increased the skills requirements of teachers, and we focus on continuing training of teachers. We're about to return to the teaching profession. Next year, we will continue the quality work at school. An alarming number of young people fall out of school. For several of them, it means that doors into the future are being closed. It's essentially for the government to create a school that several young people complete. Today is the day of the world’s teachers. I would like to congratulate all the teachers of the country on the day and thank each of you. With effort, knowledge and commitment, you shape the Nordics of the future. You can celebrate the day with pride. Two years ago we started a systematic national screening of damage and defects in Norwegian hospitals. No country in the world has done this before us in the same systematic way. Today, Norway is a leading country. We have full transparency about patient injuries in all of our hospitals. It is necessary for fewer people to be injured or killed as a result of errors. Fortunately, we see a development in the right direction. At the same time, we need to be careful that transparency about what goes wrong overshadows everything that works in the health care system. We recently found an example that our doctors and nurses – Norwegian hospitals – are world-class. The leading medical journal The Lancet compared deaths after operations in 28 European countries and placed Norwegian hospitals among the safest. This harmonizes with the big picture. Never before have so many people been treated in our hospitals. At the same time, waiting times decrease, and the quality of treatment increases. Nevertheless: We shall never forget the pain of a mother or father, a son or daughter, experience when their loved one does not get the help they need. We're always going to learn wrong. We must renew, improve and strengthen the public sector. The Norwegian model is the very core wall of society we are happy with and proud of. Good conditions for business and safe joint solutions bear the Norwegian model. That is why, as guarantors of this model, we must also be drivers of public sector renewal. We are in the process of undergoing demanding transformations: pension reform, underprivileged reform, hospital structure and interaction reform. We need to engage in extensive digitisation in order to provide better service and efficiency. In addition, the July 22 Commission showed that we need to build a leadership in the administration that creates pride in preparedness and security, a leadership that gets a decision made, a clear leadership. This has been explained earlier by the Minister of Justice and Defence and I, and the government will follow up with its own big message. Norwegian policy is characterised by broad consensus on key issues. It creates stability in the governance of the country. At the same time, we see that next year's rollout will be a direction choice. This government is responsible for oil money, we believe welfare is more important than tax cuts. We're going to bet in high school and we're not going to privatize it. We guarantee the rights of workers, take climate change seriously and stand up for international solidarity. Other parties make opposite choices. Out of respect for the voters, I hope the opposition parties in good time before the election clears the direction in which they will take Norway. Let's at the beginning of the last session of this period not forget the world's great challenges. We have recently received alarming news from the North Pole. The ice melts to some extent even the worst pessimists were not prepared for. This is a powerful alarm. The world must act before it is too late. Norway should be an impatient driver of new tools in the global climate battle. When it comes to poverty, we get both good news and bad news. The UN's thousand-year target of halving the proportion of people living in extreme poverty has already been achieved, in advance. Fewer mothers and children die in connection with birth. At the same time, we see moves of increasing social inequality in rich countries. Recently, figures from the United States show that white Americans with no education live on average four years shorter in 2008 than in 1990. Today's youth will die younger than his parents. This has hardly happened before. In several European countries, people are being excluded as a result of the economic crisis. This is terrifying weather in rich countries around us. At the same time, there is a warning to us against taking benefits for granted. It is not that rights have been won once and for all, not in the United States, not in Europe and not in Norway. We need to keep up the direction of social development and stand up for the values that make Norway a good country to live in. I look forward to constructive cooperation with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e129	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e132	It's not that things get more responsible just you repeat them many times enough. It is important to fill words such as ‘security’ and ‘responsibility’ with content, especially at a time when more and more questions about what the rule of action and the use of oil money are actually about. I'm going to ask the Prime Minister to clarify this a little bit more. Can he explain to Stortinget why state transport investments generate inflation, while state oil investment does not affect the economy in the same way? Can he explain why it is responsible economic policy to lend Norwegian oil money in the form of low-interest loans to the rest of the world, for example? to Germany, while Norwegian road projects have to borrow money from abroad at the double rate? There seem to be too many who are not very responsible. There's still a good explanation for why it's like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e137	The progressing party repeats this time again, and that is wrong what they claim we mean. All activity, both investment in oil platforms and investment in road projects, contributes to economic activity and can act as a driver of inflation. So there's no difference. So when we decide how much money we're going to spend on the state budget, we take into account how it goes in the rest of the economy. If the investment in private enterprises, the oil sector and other parts of private business is high, we take it into account when we dimension the state budget. It's called countercyclical policy, and it's the Workers' Party, because then we use the budgets to balance fluctuations in the economy. Then we have a policy that makes it room for both private and historical investment in the way and way, but we do it in a responsible way and see things in context. That is the policy we stand for. As far as toll companies are concerned, it is right that we demand that they be able to defend an interest rate of 6 p.m., because we are concerned that they should not go bankrupt, but they are borrowing to about 2 p.m., among other things. in the Kommunalbanken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e146	That's not right. I also stand here with the Ministry of Finance's own answer to questions from the Progress Party, just about the lack of links between oil investment and budget. That's where the department says this right there. There's something quite different than what the Prime Minister just said. But because this is still a little bit unclear to me, I'm going to ask another question that might make this clearer to most of us. Why is it responsible economic policy to push road investment out of time, in the meantime to save on the oil fund, when the government's own calculations show that road costs are increasing faster than the oil fund's returns? In other words, building roads is becoming more expensive and expensive, and it is also more expensive in terms of how much money we actually save. It seems to me that we are leaving less to future generations than what appears in all the celebrations. Can't the Prime Minister explain that to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e153	First, you ask me to explain something I don't mean. Then I explain that I don't mean that, and then you repeat that I mean what I don't mean. The point is that I mean exactly the same thing as the Ministry of Finance, and they mean the same thing as me, that we have to take into account the total economy when we decide the expenditure on the state budget. All activity can contribute to increasing inflation, so we look at the total economy. That's why we have to clear up space in the economy, and that's what we do through the state budget. That's point one. Point 2: We have a lot of transportation projects we want to implement – some of them are profitable, many of them are unprofitable. But the crucial thing is that we have to take into account what the total economy can bear. We have cleared up room for the bets of time on transportation – 100 billion. kr more on the road and track. It's being built all over the country to the extent that we haven't seen the husband. We do that without putting the Norwegian economy at the forefront, because we have put in a responsible policy and phased it in – project and billion for billions. We're now at 12 billion. kr more in the year, every year, in investments to the road and track than we did in the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e160	There are quite a number of people who sit and follow this change of words, and who actually ask genuine questions about these contexts. The Prime Minister may well choose to ridicule these questions that thousands of Norwegians are actually asking, or he may try to give an explanation that makes people understand what this is all about. That's why I'm going to ask another question. The NRK Dagsrevyen could tell in September that Norway has given 230 million. kr to Poland to rust up the Polish police. Data equipment has been purchased that streamlines their communication, and in the Polish city of Lublin, the average response time in a few years has declined from 15 to 6 minutes. That's great. But at the same time, Norwegian policemen, who dream of such a device, who sit with ten-year-old mobile phones. In economic terminology, there is a similar pressure effect – to believe the Ministry of Finance – on the 230 million. kr is used on equipment in Poland or whether they are used in Norway. Explain that connection to the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e167	I don't ridicule people asking questions about complicated economic relationships, but I think it's a special situation to get claims that I mean something I don't mean – and then I had to argue for it. What I think is that we need to see the total economy in one context, and that we need to pursue a policy that both allows for significant investment in public infrastructure and at the same time allows for significant growth in the private sector. We've done so far with both of them. It is true that we spend a lot of money on different projects in several EU countries, that is part of the EEA Agreement. You could say in many ways that it's part of our payment to participate in that market. Of course, we want to negotiate the amounts as low as possible. We have reached agreement with the European Union on amounts that allow us to transfer a good deal of money. It's applied to different things. Nor is it true that we do not distinguish between different expenses. We're doing it in our macroeconomic calculations. The state budget reports every year and explains how different parts of the country’s expenditure can affect the economy in different ways. But the basic thing here is that no matter how many questions you ask me, it's about the representative Jensen wants to spend more money – and it's actually easier to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e178	I have probably had some duels with the Prime Minister where he has also accused the Advance Party of bringing irresponsible cuts, so that is how the argument is adapted to what the debate is about. Let me say, I agree that we're going to see the total economy in a context. Then it's also about keeping a critical eye on how to use taxpayers' money. Then it would be a good idea not to take any stupid investments to pay for the lack of investment. An example of this is what is now happening in the context of the Cooperation Reform, where 70 pst. the municipalities of the country lack satisfactory data equipment. In order to meet the interaction reform, which came a little abruptly on them, one has therefore had to go to the purchase of fax machines. A nurse said that they are now a hundred years back in time, because they also have to use the staff to stand and watch this fax machine. This type of procurement and investment is being made, despite the fact that new ICT investments will have to be made. Is that wise economic policy? Is it to see the total economy in a context?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e185	I think the Internet is better than fax. I also believe that we should do a lot to get Norwegian hospitals to use digital tools even more – we do it to a great extent, but we need to invest in more. But I want to add the following: the most important thing now is that the hospital and the community service talk together. There has been too much communication. The interaction reform now means that many more patients are being treated near home, that we use the hospitals for what is most important, namely treating the sick, and then they are being treated and taken care of by the municipality. Then the most important thing is that they talk. So it's better that they talk together using digital solutions than on fax, but in many cases they didn't talk together at all, and that was at least a bad solution for the patients. The interaction reform means that we both get more treatment, that we get the effort where it brings the most benefit, and that more people can live at home or close to home, instead of occupying the most expensive beds in Health-Norway without needing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e193	The July 22 Commission problemed a considerable gap between what politicians/government adopt, and what they can actually achieve – what results you get, that is, what you can call the executive power of the Norwegian governance system. Then it's often interesting to think through: how do you work and think about creating good implementation? In the reports now published, there is an interesting information – in the interview with Knut Storberget – where the Commission refers to the fact that the Council of State Karl Eirik Schjøett-Pedersen, who has a responsibility to help the Prime Minister coordinate the government, points out that the government is a decision-making body and not a follow-up body. My question is: Isn't this at the heart of why you get poor implementation if you don't think the government is a follow-up body?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e202	The main objective of having the capacity to implement is the extent to which it achieves its objectives. This government is reaching targets in a lot of areas. Then there are some areas where we're not satisfied – and readiness is obviously such an area. That is why we have asked for the report, got it and got it on the table that failed – and then we will do something about it. But the overall picture is that we are reaching targets to a large extent here in the country. Our goal is to secure Norwegian jobs. More than 300,000 jobs have been created — ten times as many as in the previous period. Our goal was full child care coverage – we secured full child care coverage. Our goal was the bet of the times on the road and the track. We've added 100 billion. kr extra on the table – 12 br. kr more per year. Our goal has, for example: a significant investment effort in the future – research and education. We see that we are now cutting the international teacher and knowledge studies better, and we are doing a lot of research. This is how we can go through fields by field – the cultural promise and aid objectives. So the general message is that we reach our goals, but then of course we're not satisfied, and we're going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e209	I'm glad the Prime Minister said to measure his achievement. Let me then ask some questions about the effectiveness and the achievement of the government. The most important election campaign for the Workers' Party in 2007, in 2009 and in fact also in 2011 was the construction of several sick homes. In 2007, the election campaign clearly stated that new health care facilities were to be built – 12,000. In 2009, the Prime Minister himself wrote that 12 000 new sick homes and nursing homes should be provided, or more if the need was greater. The fasitator is that at the end of 2011, according to the best way to calculate this, 944 new places of care – on the main promise made by the Prime Minister during the last three election campaigns. How does he assess the implementation of this government when more than 11 000 posts are missing to achieve the 2015 target?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e214	In the case of care for the elderly, we have also demonstrated the effectiveness and effectiveness of care for the elderly. We have two important objectives. One is 12 000 new annual works – there we are in front of the form. In the case of 12,000 new places, we're about on the form. Half way, about halfway. I've emphasized in this room several times that when we talk about the need for new places, we're talking about growth, but we're also talking about replacing old, worn-out spaces without a bath, without a single room, and about replacing worn-out buildings with new ones. So part of this is that we're replacing worn out, poor nursing homes and old-age homes with new nursing homes or new nursing homes. We're on track. A final commitment has been made to approximately 6000 places when we have gone about half the race. But there are both nursing homes and nursing homes – there are often many faults – both talking about one thing, and it's growth, and also replacing old, worn-out places, to ensure exclusive, shower and good standards in nursing homes and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e221	I have no doubt that that government has good power on it is its rewording power – it is significantly better than its executive power. That was not what was promised in 2007, 2009 and 2011 – to make commitments – it was actually building new nursing homes and nursing homes. But let me take another question that is also important in relation to the enforcement force: what does this government do with the imposition it gets from the Stortinget? It is well documented that medical care is understaffed and poor. This was documented for the government in 2008. The whole thing took hold of this. During the examination of the cooperation reform, the government said it would come back again and received a unanimous mandate from the Health and Care Committee of the Storting to bring this about at national health level. In the national health plan, there was no mention of this. It should be included in the regulation on the cooperation reform. The regulation has now been in consultation – it does not say a word about strengthening staff at the most important first stage in Norwegian emergency preparedness, medical care. Is the decision taken in this Chamber well implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e228	Both the magnificence and the government have been engaged in good medical care throughout the country, and both the magnificence and the government have been concerned that it is a municipal responsibility. The fact that we've given 60 billion to the municipalities. kr extra, has also made them better able to carry out this important municipal task, which all parties on the Stortinget believe is municipal responsibility. Secondly, we have strengthened, through the cooperation reform, the system of fixed doctors, and also made it possible to spend more time on medical care, and we have added increased funds to more permanent doctors. It provides a basis for strengthening the medical care system around Norway. The Minister for Health has said that he is going through the regulations that apply to see whether to impose additional skills requirements, additional quality requirements. So we've done more things, and we want to see if we're going to do even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e235	‘It’s not true when the Workers’ Party keeps talking in large letters about their intention to do something about the high leadership salaries.’ It is not the Christian People's Party that says this, it is the Newspaper that says it in its leader today, based on, among other things. the question I asked Helga Pedersen, the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, yesterday. I thought Pedersen answered honestly and well. She said it was unacceptable, and that the salary level in Entra is too high. In addition, the leader of the Newspaper says, ‘Can’t the Workers’ Party do the job through formal channels, so some people talk together’. It's a way of working that the Workers' Party is familiar with. After the government enters its eighth year – when we see a development – my question to the Prime Minister is: What is the procedure now for doing something about this, and for the words of the government to come along, to become real?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e242	First, I am pleased that the representative Hareide refers to the Newspaper as if it were a good old party organ. I am among those who miss the Worker's magazine, and who thought it was great when the Worker's editor was in central government and we could look hard on him, and he wrote what we wanted. Unfortunately, it's not like this anymore. Now the newspaper also writes things we don't quite agree with. But it's a serious question the representative addresses. I also react to the development of management wages in many companies, including companies where the state is heavy owner. We've done a lot; we've tightened up the rules on options, bonuses and executives. It has given some results, as far as I understand, also in this company by reducing the salary, or compensation, from more than 5 million. NOK less than SEK 4 million. kr according to the media – I haven't got those numbers any other way. But I think there's still too many examples of crazy leadership wage development. I'm very opposed to someone talking, if you mean by that we're going to do things that aren't according to the book. The book is that it's the board of directors. We must be clear in our governance signals to the companies. And the Storting has been concerned that the government should not interfere with things that are the tasks of the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e251	As this is not an opportunity to give a reply to the press department, the next line goes to the representative Dagfinn Højbräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e254	Since the Prime Minister expressed so much joy over the Newspaper, I have brought it here. There his fresh minister of health insists on Health-Norway. Now, this government has come into a phase where it denotes most of the criticism that is raised against it, as black paint. But the Prime Minister said something that makes sense — knowledge of what does not fail is the basis for action. Yesterday, the Evening Post wrote about a recent report from the State Radiation Protection Department, which shows that it is failing in Norwegian cancer care. Hospitals lack cancer doctors. Several of the jet engines used in cancer treatment have expired. This leads to poorer treatment, poorer diagnosis, longer waiting times. And the Prime Minister has had good promises in the past about waiting time for cancer. When does this country’s cancer-reduction power come into being, and the Bondevik I government started – which has given us ‘good’ mortality rates – but which are now about to stop completely?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e261	First of all, I am pleased that the representative Højbråten says that I said something sensible – it is shy, I thank you for that. The second is that we are now running a sales campaign for the Newspaper, so buy the Newspaper – then we will definitely get an invitation to the Christmas table. But – seriously: it's a force in the cancer field. That also makes us see results. We were mediocre; now we're at the top of the world in terms of survival. In the case of breast cancer, cervical cancer, bowel cancer, we are absolutely the best – with the greatest chance of survival. But we're not satisfied with it, because it's skinny comfort for the one who doesn't get good enough treatment, does not get fast enough treatment, does the majority get good and quick treatment. That's why we have to work even more. We train more, we go into bottlenecks, and we do more for better organization. We see that some hospitals, including Stavanger Hospital and Ahus are very good at treating cancer quickly, and then other hospitals that have the same financial assumptions must be able to learn from them. And then we have to continue with a specialization and work sharing that gives the world the best cancer doctors in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e271	Yesterday we were told that Norwegian universities are raging on the rankings – that means that the cutting of rest is working. But the title of the Department's pages says that Norwegian universities claim to be international. The chief medical officer says that the medical officer is struggling, the health minister says that it was fine, when he was there last. We are informed about the merger process in Oslo, the Minister of Health says it works well and has confidence in the management. At the National Conference of the NHO, the Prime Minister says that one should be sober in terms of management wages, while he is paying his own in the top level. In celebrations, the Prime Minister says that he is too open, while we experience closeness, and that one is driven from chance to chance in terms of transparency. You look at friends, and you look for skills only among your own. The Prime Minister wants clear management, but it's just rhetoric, and you talk away from your guarantees. Why is it that when the Workers' Party has had power for a while, they always stand for such an arrogance toward their own people?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e278	I have great respect for the voters. We meet the voters every two years in Norway, and we ask for trust. The Labour Party has been given confidence, and we manage it with great respect for the voters. The most important thing we do is we go every day to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. The main picture is that Norway achieves its objectives better than all, most other countries, which the Labour Party has contributed significantly through a long political life. One challenge we all have, I think, is the contrast between the big lines, the whole picture, and the fate of individuals. We've seen that in health care in particular. International comparisons show that we are among the best in the world. Nevertheless, it fails for many individuals. We have e.g. now numbers that show that we are probably among the best in the world in terms of security of operations, but we have a level of mistreatment that leads to death of 0.3 pst. It's a low percentage – after all – internationally, but there's still a lot of people. There are almost 3,000 people who die due to misoperations, mistreatment. Although it's internationally low, it's 3,000 individual ships, and it's dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e285	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e288	I believe that we can now state that this debate shows very clearly that the red-green government is united, and that it has the will and the energy to move on. Nevertheless, we experience that the rhetorical question is: what is it you can do in twelve years that you don't have it clear in seven? The answer to that, I think it is important to emerge in this debate, because the results that this government can refer to, I would say – perhaps some smiles of it, but then I would like to take a debate around it – have led to a golden age for Norway, primarily as a result of a very strong and clear political governance, which has had one goal, and that is to ensure the social security of the individual in everyday life. I'm going to say – and it may also be smiled at – that the Stoltenberg governments have strengthened Norway's social-democratic development in such a way that we are better equipped than ever to say that we are ensuring the well-being of the next generation. The results that the government can present, I notice that the main speakers of the opposition in this debate are not afraid to say that is wrong. It's not like the right parties say that these results have hurt us, or are a crazy development. No, you push the results to your chest, and then you say, but Norway is not dynamic enough and not strong enough to meet the challenges we face. I would say that is a political lack of an argument from an opposition that is now taking the aim of taking over the government power of Norway. Because what are we looking at on the other side? It has clearly shown this debate, it was the chance they had here in this room to be able to say fundamentally that we are standing together. No, the second main feature of this debate is the opposite: the opposition is not united. It cracks in all essential areas as it now targets to replace our government with a clearly right-wing dominant government. What's the most serious thing? Yes, of course, economic policy has broken down. There's been a lot of talk about it. There's an element in this that I want to use in my last minute to comment, and that's this attempt from the right parties in particular – and now I'm talking about the right parties in particular, the Progress Party and the Right – to pretend that tax relief is a free cause, that you can only go on with tax relief without it costing anything else. All studies and scientific understanding of societal developments show that there are two ways to deal with welfare funding: one is to have a sufficiently high level of taxation; the other is to have a low level of taxation so that people can pay for themselves. But the latter leads to a distortion of social development, undermining the economic and social stability of society. This is the most important question we face, and I say: Is it really necessary for Norway, with this starting point, to start such a social development – which is completely unnecessary? That's the thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e300	Now we have just heard the Prime Minister claim a lot of things about economic policy to the government, but the Minister of Finance has not been able to document on any written questions from the Progress Party. It'll be an interesting government budget round we'll get in the next few months. Similarly, the representative of Kolberg comes up with statements about the opposition, which is very much opposite to what the representative of the Workers' Party said yesterday, because then suddenly the opposition was very united and would conduct an irresponsible policy. Today, the opposition is very divided and will conduct irresponsible policies. Here the arguments are not related to reality. I would also like to remind you that tax increases are not free; someone has to pay for them, and that is the people most and Norwegian business. The question then is: does the representative of Kolberg not see that having high taxes on income, high taxes on the profits of companies, means something for what kind of profitability it is for business in Norway, and that investments, when you have a certification system with Sweden that makes wind power in Norway worse than in Sweden, can go out of the country instead of being realized in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e309	As far as economic policy is concerned, as we have heard it, I refer to what the Prime Minister just said. The representative Sanner does not protect the economic understanding of the Advance Party. Why doesn't he? No, because he knows that there is an impossible policy to implement. It has been demonstrated in this Chamber and is one of the important things – to which the Prime Minister correctly pointed out – it is necessary to clarify before we go to elections. It'll be really good to do, if you can do it – I don't think so. That's the one. Then there's tax. No, it's not free, and all the studies also show that the Progress Party's theory that tax relief makes the welfare state more dynamic is wrong: it's getting more expensive. In the United States, the index from cradle to grave is 23 pst. more expensive if the same welfare systems are to be maintained. This is the model of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e316	It's not our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e321	What the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left agree on is to let go of all good forces, whether in private, municipal or state. An example of this is seen in health policy. In 2012, there are 280,000 people in health queues. There are 80,000 more than when the red-green government took over. Today we are told that Health Vest has cancelled an agreement with Curato – an agreement that allowed anxious ladies who had been found to suspect breast cancer to go down there immediately afterwards – with one hour or half a day’s notice. But now the government's policy has led them to wait for perhaps four weeks because of private allergy. The government has a lack of implementation in terms of the security of people's everyday lives. The working party and the red-greens have soon had a majority for eight years. How in all days are you going to be able to bring down the health cows in four years when you haven't even been close to it in almost eight?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e330	Of course, the development of the health system is always a challenge. The big picture is that more and more people are being treated better, in an efficient and good way. That's the main picture. This does not mean that there are no heavy challenges to this, but I do not believe – unlike my colleague here – that it is possible to solve only through ideological privatisation. There's a very important distinction between us and the right-hand side of this point, because the right-hand side so fundamentally – for ideological reasons – will lead to privatisation. And there are no examples from countries that have privatised health care, that bureaucracy is less, or that efficiency is better. On the contrary, it is becoming more expensive for individuals, and it creates social and health classifications, which Norway does not deserve. There's a very important distinction between the right and left sides of Norwegian politics, and I'm glad that I represent the left-hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e337	There were great words from the representative of Kolberg about the dramatic differences in the political options he describes. We understand a lot about what the representative Kolberg doesn't want, but very little about what his alternatives really want, so I want to ask more about it. You talk about community, but what is community? The red-green government has removed the family department, the family minister. The word ‘family’ was used zero times in the census. They are constantly attacking schemes that allow families to spend time together, and they are constantly talking about small-time parents working too little and too much with their families. So my simple question to Mr Kolberg's representative is: Is family part of the so-called Community solutions, or is family life a threat to Community solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e347	For the Norwegian social democracy, it has been historic, and today, very important that the family is doing well. The answer to the question is yes, the family is a very important part of our whole idea of how society should be organized and located, and there are very close connections between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party in the view of the family. That is why the Workers' Party has used the state power and political governance to strengthen the family's situation and position in society – with reference to all the arrangements that have been made here in this Chamber, also with the Christian People's Party and others. But social democracy has also been the driving force here. And it's also had the nice side to it – alongside that it's created equality, family security – that it's been the prerequisite for economic development, one of the most important bases. Not everyone understands, but it's been a crucial prerequisite for doing that, and it's quite strange that the right-hand side hasn't seen that dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e354	It's an interesting clarification that Kolberg comes with here, when he determines that the family is part of the Community solutions. It is also true, as it is said, that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have agreed on the construction of parts of that family policy – not least the development of full child care coverage. There we still have a job to do in the future, because it helps to give the family flexibility, opportunity and freedom of choice. But if you're going to have that freedom of choice, you also have to have something to choose from. Because if you just build up kindergartens without the possibility of freedom of choice, we end up weakening the family because you get less time together, even when you think you need it. To clarify my question, I would like to put it another way: Is there a threat to society and Community solutions whose parents and families spend more time together, or is there a positive opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e361	Of course, it's good if families can spend more time together. But what's going to challenge it – in Norway and throughout the Western world – is the commercial pressure. That's what's going to be the challenge. If you are to keep your family together, pressure on your family will increase if you do not have Community solutions that provide the basis for that security. That's what I was talking about in my post, and that's what separates this hall into two: what should be the main development of Norwegian society in the relationship between market governance and political governance? No one should be able to explain to me that political governance is not the foundation of a good family policy. The market will never take into account the welfare and welfare of the family. It's only political governance from the Stortinget that can handle, and unfortunately it looks like the Christian People's Party has chosen the wrong side at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e368	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e371	I hope not all go because of me! But I take it anyway – isn't that what it's called? Let me start by giving the government credit because at least you're showing a direction where you want to go. I also expect that when we come to Monday, when the budget is presented, the framework there will not be anything lower than it is for the current year. At the same time, I reserve the right to be critical of some of the directions you take. For one of the big questions, how long will it take to implement the project you had when you took over the government offices in 2005? What is the ability and permeability of this government? One of the control questions you must be allowed to ask after listening to Martin Kolberg – and the Prime Minister, for that matter – is: Have we solved the road construction problems? We can say that we've come further. I accept that, but it would certainly just be missing with the financial assumption we have today. Have we solved the challenges and followed up on public buildings in Norway? The answer also there is no. Have we solved the health problems? Once again, the answer is no. Have we solved the challenges of a lack of security with regard to follow-up from the Norwegian police? We don't have it, do we? And it would have been tempting to ask, how long does this government need to clean up these things? We still see individuals struggling in everyday life, in the fight against the systems. One of my concerns is that I perceive that today we have a government that is more concerned with ensuring that the systems are satisfied, and where the needs of individuals are actually considered a problem. Then we go backwards, and then you don't have much progress, to say it simply. The paradox is that we have the means to do the job, but we don't have the ability to do what we should do. Let me point out one of the things I think is good, and that fascinates me in Norway – we have a lot of things that are good. The Coast Guard, and the job of the Coast Guard, have a great deal of respect. They have a multi-purpose tool to support Norwegian preparedness. They are responsible for ensuring our sovereignty, they are responsible for contributing to Schengen control, they are in charge of fisheries supervision, and they are in charge of search and rescue whenever necessary. And they're doing an amazing job. The question is, how do we facilitate them to do their job in the best possible way? A few days ago, parts of the Foreign and Defence Committee were on their way with KV Svalbard. The primary tool is missing. The boat is available, but the helicopters, to increase the reach, which is in a way the spearhead of the Coast Guard, do not exist. Then I think: This government talking about power of action – where is the power of action? Norway concluded a contract in 2001, with deliveries from 2005/2006. We've got one helicopter, but that's not even the helicopter we're going to have. And then I ask the question, where is the capacity for implementation? Where is the ability to get things into place? You talk rhetorically, but you don't have the ability to do it. So someone wants to ask, what's the plan of the Progress Party? Plan No. of the Progress Party 1 is to give individuals security. Security in everyday life is an extremely important factor in quality of life. That is why we constantly want to ensure that the health systems are in place, that the Norwegian police are something more than a discussion between the former and the current Minister of Justice about who granted the most and about admission to the Police College. It doesn't concern the person who calls and asks for help, who doesn't get it. For every time something like that happens, there is a scourge in the Norwegian welfare state. The party of progress is also a party that is engaged in action, because over time we have seen that changing governments have variablely succeeded in creating great successes. That's why we believe that time is now ripe for us to be part of the government offices, to show that there's a difference between us and others. Some of the things that the Progress Party has been fighting for for years, others have flirted and fooled. But afterwards, it has been shown that some of these have not been so stupid, they have actually contributed to improvements. I think that precisely the quality the Progress Party has had, by just asking questions by the adopted, has been with and drawn things forward. Both security and action are important. Of course, it is because we want the family – which was a theme in the previous line change – to be a basic function in Norwegian society. The freedom to choose solutions that are optimal for the individual family is, of course, a basis for this, and the Progress Party has an inherent belief that most people actually know best what they serve – where you want to place your garage, where you want to have your children, what kind of school you want to have your children in, and what kind of care your parents should have when you need it. It is better for the family than bureaucrats appointed by the Workers' Party and others from the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e397	In our relatively peaceful part of the world, it can often be difficult to deal with the way wars and conflicts characterize everyday life for other people. There are many areas of concern in the world. Today we see a humanitarian disaster taking place in Syria, in a country where a brutal regime has turned its arms against its own people. We also see an attack on one of our allies in NATO, Turkey. This morning the news came that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees called for a warning about the lack of funds to deal with the large refugee flow experienced in many countries. In Kenya, the world’s largest refugee camp is Dadaab with 500,000 people, and it is still new. This is also a responsibility we have in our part of the world. We are present in Afghanistan with the full spectrum of civil, political and military instruments. These days we're not leaving Afghanistan, we're moving in Afghanistan and getting new jobs. Still more than half of the soldiers who have been there until now will be present now and in the future – about 260 soldiers. It is extremely important that we do not lose sight of our contribution and mission in Afghanistan now. The phase we're going into is maybe even more demanding than it's been for a long time. In 2014, the transition and transfer of power and responsibility to the Afghans will be completed, and at the same time it will be a presidential election in the country. The positioning has begun, old warlords, old rulers and old clans are now facing each other and positioning themselves in a game that can potentially cause a lot of unrest. We're still going to be hard on assistance. We just sent down a Hercules plane to operate tactical transportation. We're going to have medical evacuation, which we've had to do now. We have our special forces in Kabul, which train Afghan special forces, and which often lead the way in difficult and complicated operations, and we need a police mentoring contribution from January 2013. 2013 has been said by ISAF to be the year of the police. The police are today the weakest part of the security forces, and that is why it is very important to train and mentor the police. We still want soldiers in Afghanistan who are going to risk their lives under difficult conditions. The thousands of soldiers who have been, who are, who are to be in Afghanistan, deserve our thanks, our recognition, and not least deserve both them and the mission that we still have attention. Our thoughts also go to all those who have been hurt, and to those who are left after losing their loved ones. There was not one word in the census about our mission in Afghanistan, not one word about all the soldiers and families who are somehow affected by our mission. The Prime Minister had the opportunity to fix this, but he didn't say one word in his 15-minute speaking time here either. This isn't the end of our mission, but it's the beginning of a new phase. ‘We live in a Europe characterised by economic instability, social unrest and high unemployment’, says the Government of the Throne. That's right. Against this hindrance, it is therefore quite incomprehensible that the government some time ago announced that there will now be increased customs barriers to agricultural products from countries in Europe that are struggling significantly more economically than what we are doing. Unintelligible also apparently then Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre believed that customs barriers and protectionism were, when in Geneva in December 2011 he signed a bulwark against protectionism, against customs barriers, precisely in the difficult phase of the world. ‘While our neighbouring countries are struggling, we are experiencing low unemployment in Norway, innovation in business and high levels of professional participation’, says the government of the throne. The more incomprehensible it is that we do not want to share it with our closest neighbours, who are struggling significantly more than we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e418	The government's throne speech is rightly criticized for lack of visions and new ideas. A government that has had the chance for almost eight years and aims to continue the same course in four new years, must convince more strongly than we have seen in these days, in order to ensure renewed confidence. What visions are important for Norway, as compared to the rest of Europe and large parts of the world are ‘a country flowing from milk and honey’? First, we don't have to become ourselves enough. ‘The wealth of oil and gas will continue to benefit everyone in Norway’, states the Government of the Throne. I guess that's good. But it's far too slim at a time when mass unemployment and social distress surround us on all sides. It's getting too small at a time when we know more than ever how to make poverty history. Norway is richly blessed by nature with resources. It's a huge historical responsibility this generation we belong to has to manage these resources. Then it's too boisterous just to think of national distribution. There is a lot of talk about Norway being a precursor country in yours and yours. But if we are not a leading country in global solidarity, both contemporary and postpartum would rightly be able to bring a crushing sentence upon a country that, in its wealth, forgot its own close past as a poor country and became itself enough. The languages of the throne were chemically free from visions in this area. I'm sorry. Secondly, we must not forget where we come from. A nation with no consciousness and no knowledge of its own value can, despite its material abundance, be entering a spiritual and cultural poverty that creates insecurity and confusion. The red-greens have done their best to reduce the place of Christianity in school. The results of a lack of knowledge on these aspects of the identity of the nation are already traceable. The understanding of how language and culture are shaped by Bible images and stories is confusing. Without knowing what faith means to the majority of people in the world, we also lose important keys to understanding and resolving conflicts and to living together in a diverse society. Values such as closeness, forgiveness and reconciliation, respect for life and property and unselfish care do not grow out of itself. They must be planted and cultivated and fenced over in every generation. This perspective was totally omitted in the Common Era. Third, we don't have to become a society that despises the weak to the extent that we systematically sort it out. A society that no longer has room for children with Down's syndrome becomes a society of human poverty. This is the consequence of a systematic search for disease or disability in the foetus – a disease that cannot be cured or treated but with which it is possible to live in a society that includes all. Strong forces will change the law, so that it will not only be a right to choose whether to have children, but also the kind of children to have. Instead of focusing on the child’s rights, the fight for the right of adults to have children — with desired characteristics. We are at a serious crossroads in the debate on biotechnology. This matter was not mentioned in the census either. I hope that means that the government and our new health minister are going to spend time and think carefully about it. For me, it's a great paradox that the party that wants everyone to join us is leading the development towards a sorting society. Fourthly, as a society, we need to invest in the family as the foundation of safety and quality of life for both children and adults. Under red-green rule, family policy has almost disappeared. They removed the family minister and the family department. They removed most of the cash support, and a search for the word family in the throne gives zero hits. It has become increasingly clear that where there was a previous demand for labour to adapt to the family's needs, the demand has now turned upside down. Families need to adapt to society’s expectation that children will be placed in kindergarten once the one-year-old age has passed. Parents who choose differently are penalised financially and often experience accusations that their choices are not in the best interests of their children. Most people want more time together in the family. But what they get from this government is institutional solutions, so they can spend more time in the world of work. It is possible that this contributes to both increased value creation and productivity, so that we get more money to build more institutions, but it gives us a poorer society, where home and the community are drained for living life, which is so important for security and quality of life. The vision for Norway must be that we should be a country that leads in solidarity with those who are struggling with poverty, oppression and disease. We're going to be a nation that knows its roots, and that is safe in meeting with increasing diversity, that includes and does not despise weakness, and that understands building the family as a source of security and quality of life. Then we can see our children and grandchildren in their eyes with happy anticipation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e441	Family care is often called the invisible care. Work effort is barely recorded in case management, statistics, national accounts or public distribution. She has come in the shadow of the necessary focus on public welfare responsibility. Family care is rarely mentioned in the public vocabulary and hardly mentioned in debates like this. It happens despite the fact that she has an annual effort with a size like the public. 100 000 years of care are done by family and other volunteers. It is a reality that the welfare community would not go about without the voluntary, and mainly family-based, care. The central party will be a driver of a more clear policy of renegade – in line with Hagen's recommendations. Family care must be visible. A systematic political focus must be placed on the relatives and volunteers through the development of a new national policy in this area. Intimidating and volunteering efforts and their needs need to be seen in all municipal care plans. New neighbouring policies must build on equality between women and men. The starting point is good. The statistics show that there are now almost as many daughters who provide regular help or supervision for their old parents. New policies must ensure flexibility. A care allowance to live on and good leave arrangements in full-time or part-time is central. We have to make it easier to combine work and care. Many have already happened. For example, the extension of care allowance to close relatives at the end of life has been extended. It shall not be such that those who save society for excessive expenditure, for example: in the form of a sick home place, the self becomes financially injured. You need to be sure that you are familiar with this guide. Those with needs must be entitled to training in the disease or functional loss suffered by the user. The competent family member with professional insight will be an invaluable contribution to the care of the elderly for years to come. The family has the right to download. From studies of relatives to people with dementia we know that up to 50 pst. self-developing health problems. A new policy of repatriation must ensure relief arrangements, so that its relatives do not burn out and become patients themselves. Retired efforts must be seen and valued. Individual user/patient plans need to identify the environment around the user and will contribute. New neighbouring policies must be knowledge-based. By implementing new welfare technologies and better-organised housing, the potential for more family-based care is high. Providing family-based care does not mean deprioritising the public elderly effort – on the contrary. It is very important to ensure capacity growth, with several hands, lifting of skills, several organised housing and day-to-day care in public fire services. But we're not going to focus unilaterally on the number of new dwellings and beds, but also on the nearly 90,000 existing residential sites and dwellings that are soon ripe for replacement and conversion. In the future, institutions will have to adapt to demente even more than they do today. It's a Chinese saying: first we form houses. So shapes us up. For dementes, there is evidence that small, organized units, usually with a maximum of six-eight inhabitants, are the most favourable. Braid's good. Four of the five residents of the hospital today will have the best benefit of small units. This should be the rule, not the exception. The time of the large institutions must be over. Today, we spend a lot of public money on care for the elderly, with a lot of construction of new annual works and housing. It's positive. Our biggest challenge now is many studies that point to the fact that daily life, meal, activity, social and cultural conditions are the greatest weaknesses in the provision of care today. The positive thing is that we don't need new technology to get this done. We don't need to find a new care provider. I want to say that we need to find her, not invent her. Those who work in institutions and in home care must find time for the most important, simply the meeting with patients and users. We have to get the quality of the basic things that the patient gets food, has an activity every day, has someone to talk to and has a meaningful everyday life. Paperstores must not be taken over by the elderly. 10 000 annual reports and paperwork, as reported by the Evening Post on this week, are too much. While sufficient reporting is necessary for quality assurance, time use needs to be streamlined. Health professionals, nurses and doctors must have time to do what they have learned – to meet patients and to provide qualified and professional care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e471	A throne speech should and of course must be very superior – it says itself. But often I think that maybe it should be eaten a little bit more to get more interesting. For example, I was waiting. with great tension on what the government would do in the field of transport. Well, the government believes that a well-functioning transport system for increased value creation and for quality of life and for putting the whole country into use is important. I guess no one can disagree with that. What I had hoped for was a concrete understanding of what's most important now. Throughout the summer, there has been a debate on housing policy, expensive housing prices in cities and fortifications in and around our big cities. We see statistics showing a huge influx to the big cities, and we hear big politicians from the government parties who think it has to be much more dense. However, it is important not only to press for the most efficient construction of dwellings, but also to provide efficient infrastructure. The infrastructure must be put in place first. There are therefore high expectations from the Left to the State budget and the roll-out of the national transport plan. The left has raised transport needs, for example: The East several times here in the Great Britain. This week there was a seminar at Stortinget on the need for double tracks in the intercity triangle. There was a seminar in the direction of the Right and the Workers' Party together and this at the beginning of a campaign. It shows how important it is to be given priority in cross-political terms. The business community presented figures of how many billions a day it costs to line up with our big cities. The left has been committed to creating good solutions for people to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the East, with access to a huge labour market and short distances. People must be able to live and work in and around our capital, and then the intercity triangle together with the Kongswingerbahn and the Ringeriksban must become a reality – and it is urgent. It's the majority government that has to do the job, but after hearing the census, I'm not sure if they've taken it all the way in. One of the many budgetary leakages from the representative Lysbakken is that the Bergensbanen should be upgraded. Of course, the Left agrees and has meant a long time. On the other hand, the Light Hill does not say anything about it, but as he should say something about it, the Ringerix Railway will shorten the Bergensbanen by one hour. SV was consulted by the Workers' Party in 1992 when SV supported the then State Council Opseth in that E16 about Sogn would become the main road to Bergen, in return for the Ringriksbanen to be speeded up. Opseth and the Workers' Party got what they wanted. Now the Ringerix Railway and Tunnel are still being pushed out in time. Last week at the latest, there was a delay warning. In addition, this government, as I see it, has had little will to focus on our big cities in the last few years. It is contrary to the two Ministers for Transport from the Left of the Bondevik Governments. It is urgent to put in place solutions such as Fornebubanen, Kolsåsbanen, the path to Ahus, the extension of the Urban Railway in Bergen, the urban railway in Stavanger and the new T-Bahn tunnel under Oslo. It is too expensive for the municipalities to handle this alone, and the government seems unwilling to take on this job. Finally, the left considers that the State must bear half of the cost of building expensive track solutions. Collective solutions must not be forgotten when talking about fortifications in and around our big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e486	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e489	The representative Tende is a committed transport politician, but she is also the Left's representative in the Finance Committee and is now the leader of the Party. She then agrees to say that it is okay to cooperate with the Progress Party during the next majority period. One thing is that the Left will now clearly swallow things like the immigration and integration policy of the Progress Party, aid policy where the poor will get worse, a leader who cannot answer if she believes climate change is real, and who believes it is more important to take account of businesses than people, the environment and the future. But the question is: can the Left at least guarantee that they will abide by the rule of action in a government where Siv Jensen may be Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e497	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e502	Then we probably also got confirmation from the representative Trend that she liked to swallow the other camels that relate to the environment, help and human vision, as long as economic policy was in place, since she chose not to answer it. Another thing that also interests me with the Left and Left governance, where the Left has power, is in Oslo, for example. We heard earlier Trine Skei Grande criticise the Workers' Party for lack of transparency. But we see that the Left in Oslo refuses employees to criticise their own positions in the media. Ola Elvesuen refused to allow the city council access to the waterworks scandal. Elvestuen also refuses access to the Unibuss scandal. So I'm interested in whether we get a Left that's kind of going to swallow camels, which in a way are not concerned with transparency and transparency, and as the only guarantee is the rule of action in a new government option.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e509	Firstly, I replied to the representative, Mr Wickholm, about the rule of action. That's what I said. So it's like the Left goes to the election of a new government. Because why shouldn't we? Now we've been in opposition for seven and a half years, almost eight years. We've been down on every proposal we've had in this room. Today, we have ten proposals on the table by the representative Skei Grande – good proposals that we have fought for in all eight years here. What the representative of Wickholm should be more concerned about is what I mentioned in my post, and what the reply should be about, namely that this government does not bet on the big cities and the pressure that is in the capital. The representative of Wickholm should be more concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e514	The left and SV have conflicting views on many issues that go to school, education and the environment — not least the environment. When SV is part of the red-green government, it's because we think we're getting an impact on a lot of this government policy. We have high-recorded investments in school, in research, high-recorded investment in teachers, in continuing training, and not least in high-recorded investments in rail and kindergartens. We do this because we have a parallel view of, among other things, economic policy. The left goes to the right. The left will run an election campaign to bring the Party of Advancement into the government. The Right Party and the Advance Party have promised tax reliefs of between 25 and 100 billion. kr. How will the Left finance school and education spending when these tax credits are to be financed? Where will the Left cut budgets in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e519	The representative, Hansen, and I are both on the finance committee. We're going to present our alternate budget gradually. What matters to the Left and has always been so is that the tax system can be used actively and more actively than what we feel, for example. SV does, by that we can turn taxes in a more environmentally friendly direction. We can tax pollution and give tax relief to environmentally friendly behaviour. We can facilitate a healthier lifestyle, tax sugary goods and provide tax relief for healthy foods. It is a policy that I am very disappointed that SV does not see the value of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e526	The representative tend to place a lot of his or her emphasis on transportation, and that's good. The centre part shares great ambitions in the area of transportation, and under the heading of the situation in the big cities, she talks about the solutions – not in the big cities, but in Oslo. This has happened repeatedly. None of us deny that Oslo has challenges in the field of transportation, but it's of course that we have more cities in the country than Oslo. We've got the Bergen that wears big, among other things. because they have had a city council that has uncritically chosen solutions all the time that have only increased car traffic into the city. We have Trondheim, and we have other cities in this country. We also have areas outside cities – the big cities – where investments in transport can trigger the potential for value creation. My question to the representative Tenden: Why this one-sided focus only on Oslo and no more focus on the whole country as an area that needs investment in transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e533	With all due respect for the representative, I think he may not have followed closely in my post, for I mentioned, for example. The city track in Bergen. It was actually Torild Skogsholm who started up the Urban Railway in Bergen and prepared it. What we're saying now is that now the state has to pay 50 pst. of the costs incurred to extend that urban runway, for Bergen cannot afford to deal with it alone. I mentioned Stavanger – a city railway in Stavanger – so the representative must have followed very poorly. Then it's the intercity triangle. At the seminar I talked about, the county commodity rapporteur in the South-Trundelage said that the intercity triangle might be one of the most important things we can do with right here and now – this because the transport industry from the districts is in line with those who use the car to and from work, and it costs the districts and the business a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e538	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e541	The old chancellor Konrad Adenauer once said that we all live under the same sky, but not all have the same horizon. That is what this debate shows. The only thing the opposition really stands together about is stamping the government as just an administrator, that it's out of action and out of implementation. Yes, the representative Sandberg takes as usual extra hard in and called it museum guards. Who has over the years met the major renewal needs of society: the police reform, the conversion of defence, the Nav reform, hospitals, tax reforms, the pension reform – reforms that have gone over many years and more governments? But it is when the Labour Party has been in government that the reforms have started. Often our governments have brought them into port. What can the Right refer to in terms of the renewal of the large, heavy public institutions and structures of our society when they are in government? Renewal requires conversion, conversion is demanding. But the Workers' Party has never moved back to take that job, because we believe it has been necessary to renew, strengthen and improve the welfare community. The right has never ventured to solve the big problems once they've had the chance, and we might be happy about that. Several have focused on the importance of investing in the future, ensuring innovation and innovation, developing a forward-looking business. Yes, there is no disagreement about the necessity of. That's why research has increased by 25 pst. since 2005. The active substance has been renewed. The results speak for themselves. There are over 300 000 more jobs today than in 2005, two thirds of them in the private sector. Never have so many been working here in the country. This government will continue to invest in the future. It goes well in Norwegian business. The number of companies that grow and earn well increased by 50 pst. Last year, the Evening Post wrote the other day. We have great economic growth. The greatest threat to this good development comes from the economic crisis in Europe and elsewhere in the world. The fact that we have done well to date is due to wise economic governance and the structure of our export industry. But we have no guarantee. The most important protection is keeping order in your own house. Safe economic governance is not as sexy as slogans, but it is important and necessary to be able to maintain people's security of work and income. It is not enough to say that we want to conduct a responsible economic policy, as the Progress Party repeats and repeats, while at the same time they are constantly looking at subtle ways around what is absolutely fundamental: responsible management and use of oil revenues. The right-wing leader thought we needed a government with new ideas and new solutions. But what is it the party itself has to offer? Right's just on its old self. Taking employment policies, the draft programme is recognisable – the working time arrangements should be liberalised, temporary employment should be facilitated. Anyone who is concerned about the development of Norwegian working life in terms of temporary employment, working time and the fight against social dumping will be aware that this fight will take place in September next year. Sure, the problems that have to be solved in the years that are coming, that's why we're so busy continuing in government. We never reach the society where there is no need for politics, where there are no longer distortions to correct, differences to balance, where there are no people who do not get the welfare services they need. What the voters want to ask is whether there is a right-wing policy that is the answer. Is there going to be more to railway development, better schools, more to hospital treatment if the tax revenue to the community is to be cut by tens of billions? I think people understand that it is not possible to get more and better well-being with less money in the common fund. But that is the message from the Right and the Advance Party. You're going to pay less tax, but get more left. Not even the bottom price or Rema's trying to get on it. What's the picture of this debate out there is reflected in today's media. The four opposition parties continue to disagree on the environment, public money and asylum and refugee policies. The red-greens did not meet a united front in the throne debate on Thursday, writes the Norwegian Telegram Bureau. The representative Skei Grande, the leader of the Left, said that the Left would have a bourgeois government that is more green and more warm, Knut Arild Hareide would have a more centre-oriented government, and the Dagfinn Højbrätten wanted us to be a leading country in global solidarity. We fully agree with the latter, but how can we achieve this with the Progress Party in the government offices? That's the big unanswered question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e571	I do not take over the scandalous sector, stated our new Health Council on the day he took over his new Department of Health and Welfare. Yes, he repeated it as his mantra all that day. In fact, I fully agree with that, there is no scandalous sector, mainly thanks to good doctors and very good and hard-working nurses and other health workers in the sector, who every day make sure that we don't get more scandals than what we have. Although the sector is not a scandalous sector, it is a sector that unfortunately is marked by many scandals. Then it's actually important to get hold of the scandals. Our new health minister kept his post in the hall yesterday, elegantly uttered, fine words and good considerations as usual, but no concrete suggestions, no concrete action. On TV right after this post we saw a new scandal: Oslo University Hospital could report that as far as this year there were 500 patients in the brain surgery department who had been sent home after they had been prepared for surgery. There's almost 10 pieces a week, and it's a scandal. We have many unnecessary deaths in the sector. The numbers are going down, fortunately, but 3,000 are still too many. We send journals in taxis, we communicate with faxes, we treat errors to a large extent, and we get a lot of cleaning, which costs a lot of money, maybe billions of dollars. For this very reason, the Progress Party has proposed to set up a Commission. After July 22, we all agreed that we need to look at social security and social protection as a whole. Yes, this is also what the Progress Party wants us to do in the health sector – see the whole picture, not just the individual cases to be addressed by the Health Authority and others. Why do we treat fewer patients in Norway compared to the number of doctors they do in our neighbouring countries that are quite comparable? So let's think about that. Let's see why we have so high numbers in the case of people who die unnecessarily in hospitals, why we have long waiting lists and that they have increased almost continuously for seven years. We have to look at this, and to look at it in a longer perspective. That's exactly why we should have a commission that looks with an open mind at how we can do things better in Norwegian health care. Carcinogenicity has also been mentioned today. There was a report that was published in newspapers yesterday, which shows that unfortunately it is not as good as we had hoped. Yes, many more people are being treated in Norway than before, and many more are surviving, and that is very good. But it is still so that the oldest jet engine in the Radium Hospital is 19 years old – far beyond the expected lifetime and what you recommend. This report also shows that investments in medical devices in the Norwegian health sector almost ceased in 2006. It is therefore time that we saw more complete, and that we are willing to invest, both in equipment and – not least – in new buildings. As far as cancer care is concerned, I have visited doctors who work at the Radium Hospital who use dunes and cushions to keep the window frames in order not to pull and that it should not be too cold to sit in the office. This is one of the foremost institutions in the country. We know that we need new hospitals, both at Ullevål and at the Radium Hospital, we need it in Molde, we need new construction steps in Westfold and many other places. It requires action and will, not just words and messages to the Storting. We also need computer systems that can talk, so that we don't use taxis and faxes as the most effective form of communication. We've also seen that the medical guards are not the way they should be. That could have been said a lot about. I share the impression on TV that there is a lot to do, and our own doctor's visits should not be what determines that we should not act. I also think we need more action. In order to regain safety for Norwegian patients, we simply need to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e594	Many red-green speakers, the last with the representative Kolberg in the head, have for a few days been offended by the lack of homage to their results from the opposition. They think it's black paint when you point to challenges. Let me underline that a lot is going well. But there is a absence of three relationships when the red-greens keep their posts. It is that we rely on a significant pension fund in Norway, it is the strong oil and gas industry that gives us the revenues, and it is the very high cost level that creates a two-track economy in Norway. Where the red-greens want to look back and be razed, the Right believes that you need to have some ideas about what the challenge is in the future. The main thing is to recognise that it is the creation of value in business that is the basis for the maintenance and strengthening of our welfare society. Then we have to recognize that we have a cost level of 50 pst. higher than our competitors, and that it has developed over the past five to six years. It has to be compensated for. Then we must also acknowledge that at the Europeans, where 80 pst. of our exports go, the times are bad. Their purchasing power will be reduced. The two-track economy will only increase. Traditional industry is struggling, while the oil and gas industry is at high levels of profitability and investment — and that is good. So it's about recognizing that, in terms of innovation, we're, in fact, completely mediocre about the international measurements. So what are the solutions? We believe that there is an increased focus on knowledge through school, higher education and research. It is human capital that is the great resource in the long term. Then there is a need to increase innovation and migration, partly through a much more focused and targeted use of public instruments, but also by allowing businesses themselves to spend more of their own money into innovation through e.g.: tax relief. Then the use of the extra oil money that is phased into the economy has to go back to its starting point. We need to shift the expenditure growth from consumption to investment in knowledge, transport and growth-creating tax relief. It's a better solution and investment in the future than lubricating the increased space of action thinly beyond, so you don't get to know it in a value creation context. New solutions in transport will allow you to spend your money better and more efficiently. As I said, businesses must be made stronger by not taxing their owners on assets and resources that do not generate income. It also has something to do with public attitudes to owners and their desire and willingness to invest — perhaps also their desire and willingness to be in this country. Governments must then be streamlined. It could finance structural changes and tax relief. Of course, priority must be given to public budgets. The Working Environment Act was recently introduced by the representative Hansen. Norwegian work ano 2012 is something different from what it was. It is no longer ‘de’ and ‘we’ in Norwegian working life – it is ‘us’. The competition is hard, and you have to stand together. Finally, let me use a few words to the representatives of Kolberg and Hansen, who are attacking the Right for their tax relief. The representative Kolberg says that tax relief has a counterpoint in social imbalances. Then I would say it in that way that no Norwegian business can be stimulated even through tax incentives, has a counterpoint in getting a poorer foundation for the welfare society by the lack of growth. It is in individual companies that well-being is created through the value creation that is created there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e616	In June, 3215 heat records were tangential in the United States alone. May was month number 327 in a row of months where the global average temperature exceeded the average in the previous hundred years. Research from the last year shows that what has previously been our theories, with great probability now has been safe knowledge. There is a connection between man-made climate change and it increases the extreme value we can experience around the world. Too few weeks ago, a new negative bottom record was also set: the Arctic ice is twice the land area of Norway smaller than the previous bottom record. Those who have been on Svalbard for the last six months have been told that in areas that have once been characterized by thick ice, the ice is now gone. The man-made climate change is the greatest environmental challenge in our time. That's the test for our generation. They'll hit us hard here in the north. The increase in the global average temperature of two degrees will be unevenly distributed, and in the north it will be particularly higher. One estimate is that in Scandinavia, global average heating is about two degrees, probably about four degrees. Extreme weather will hit us extra hard in our weather country. More rain, flooding and wind give rise to greater risks of slipping, hurricanes and accidents with consequences for man and the economy. Economically responsible policies are important, but an ecologically responsible policy that takes care of climate conditions and environmental quality is equally important and closely linked. If climate policy has a core, it is the transition from fossil to renewable energy. It is also at the heart of economic policy. We have a goal of increasing our renewable share even more towards 2020, from a starting point among the highest in the world. This summer we gave concession to new wind power that is as much as everything we have now, and we have a great potential for wind both onshore and offshore in Norway. It must be developed in a gentle way. But it must also be combined with an increase in the price of fossil energy. Therefore, it is right to increase the CO2 charge on the base. We need to work with environmental forces in the EU to raise the quota price, and it is right to protect vulnerable areas such as those outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja against petroleum activity. Because in fact, CO2 emissions from the sum of all oil, gas and coal we know internationally will give five times as much warming of the atmosphere and lead to five times as much accumulation of CO2 in the atmosphere as what we can withstand if the two-degree target is to be maintained. Urban policy is also important, because in addition to energy, land is at the heart of our ecological and economic policies. Norway is a country dominated by towns and cities. Four out of five Nordics live in towns and towns. Oslo is the fastest growing region in Europe. Population growth is a great advantage, but it also gives us great challenges. We have to build tighter and taller, and we have to build around collective nodes. We must have growth in passenger traffic with bicycles, corridors and collectives, as the climate agreement says, and we must maintain our urban quality, the quality of housing, in service and industry and in the neighbourhood. It seems that nature is something that needs to be removed to ensure urban development, but proximity to nature is one of the most important qualities in Norwegian cities. It's just that walking in the woods and fields is the most common leisure activity in Norway. There are few things that are as typical of Norwegian as that, and in the future it will be a scarcer good that we have to take good care of in our cities. The representative of the Højbrätt had a view that I liked. We have to look beyond ourselves and outside ourselves. You ask me, global distribution and global environment are the core challenges in the hundred years we've started now. A government option of the Right and the Advance Party, which sails up as the most likely, will be a systematic step backwards for nature and the environment and a systematic step backwards in development policy. Is there one field where the Progress Party and the Right will provide a more environmentally friendly direction or better development policy for Norway? On the contrary, there are systematically lower ambitions we can expect if we read programmes or budget proposals. What we need is more and more targets, and that's what the red-greens belong to – high targets, tough measures, and that's what we're going to have even more of in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e654	The Prime Minister, and in the same way the Minister for the Environment, showed in his contributions to the record ice melting in the Arctic. Many proposals have been made. What characterizes too many of them is that they're cracking. We know the diesel bat, for a while, and then we start the debate on what to prohibit. Biodieselsaka is one of them. Green Certificate is the last to record that the Secretary of State who presented the case is now in fact arguing strongly against it. We also experience at a wind power conference that the minister himself thought this was very good. We can then wonder: What do you think about green certificates? Is one for, or is one against? At the same time one sees that in the thousands of homes there is a requirement to do something about climate and climate action. But what will the Council of State itself propose within the areas where the State itself has a responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e659	With respect to reporting, when the Progress Party reports that the problem of climate change is that the proposal for action is so explosive, I have to say that I am responding, because one of the problems is that the Progress Party itself does not believe in the ‘CO2 hypothesis’, which the representative of the Environment and Energy Committee has used to call it, and has systematically voted against a number of the important measures that lie there. Then I have to briefly mention some important things. In the renewable energy field, I went through this: we have green certificates that provide for extensive new development, but we also have to include the other side – higher CO2 tax and high quota prices that make it actually replace fossil energy. We have very strong ambitions that the growth of all passenger traffic in the big cities in the future will be affected by collective, bicycle and walking. We have a technology fund in the industry that provides emission reductions, and a number of other measures, as well as the international work on a global agreement that is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e674	I had intended to ask about the follow-up of the climate communication in the budget, but then the Council of State said something in its post that made me respond. He says that it was right to protect the areas outside the Lofoten and the Western Seabed from petroleum extraction. Then I have to ask whether it is government policy that areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole should be protected from petroleum extraction. What the Council of State quickly forgets is that Norwegian petroleum production actually has among the lowest greenhouse gas emissions in the world. They're 60 pst. during the global emissions of this type of production. Cutting Norwegian petroleum production at the expense of other production, I cannot in any way see the benefits of the climate. Nor will it benefit the climate from not taking advantage of the possibility of developing an entire part of the country, something that petroleum extraction outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea will do for Northernland.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e679	It is true that the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja are not open to petroleum activity. It was presented for the Size previously in the period. So I think I just have to go through the image a little bit again. One could say what one will do, but one of the surest things we know about climate change is that fossil energy use is the main cause of their emergence, and if we don't manage a gradual transition from fossil energy – coal, oil and gas, where coal is the most severe effect, and gas has less CO2 than oil – we won't be able to do anything about climate change, because it's such a dominant part of the problem. As I said, all of the coal, oil and gas -- all of the resources we know -- will give rise to emissions that will lead to a build-up in the atmosphere five times what we can have to reach the two-degree target. So if we're serious about our own goals, the world community has to address that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e689	I agree with the Council of State that we should have high development and assistance targets. It is nice that the current government has reached one percent, which was reached for the first time when the Christian People's Party had Minister of Assistance Reidun Brusletten in the 1980s. What I'm most proud of when it comes to the Christian People's Party's efforts in government, is that no matter who we've cooperated with in government or in opposition, we've always stood for and made greater efforts for the world's poor. It can count on also being the trademark of the Christian People's Party in the years to come, no matter what constellation we want to cooperate in. However, the problem is that under this government and under the leadership of the aid policy, a young person has been introduced into the aid budget called rainforests, who has stepped up efforts and increased efforts in the area of classical health and education assistance, so that that proportion has fallen. What does SV want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e696	I agree with the representative Højbrätten's description of the efforts of the Christian People's Party over many years, and in particular I could observe him as an active politician from 2001 to 2005. But I'm disunityed in his description of our efforts, and at least in the epitome of 'houndling'. One might say a lot about the rainforest in the world, but one does not. Rainforest is the most important area of biodiversity – 30 to 40 pst. There are species of the world. He has a huge global significance – very many human beings, poor human beings in countries like Indonesia, Brazil and throughout the Congo region cage in the rainforest. Developing areas and providing alternative livelihoods for logging is a good development policy, and it is extremely important for the climate as well. There is one of the most important things that can be done to reduce climate change, and that is why it is the main objective of the Norwegian rainforest effort. But it's good environmental policy and good development policy. So I didn't want to ask you about the further relationship with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e703	Today’s Business Today, we read that the Minister for the Environment will delete EU allowances in order to bring down the quota price and reduce emissions. That's what we think is great. But now it is once that this government is selling EU quotas for 1.1 billion. kr in the current state budget - allowances that could instead have been cancelled if the minister had wanted to. Will the Minister do what he asks the EU to do, namely delete Norway's own allowances so that emissions fall and the quota price rises?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e708	Norway both buys and sells allowances, because we are participants in a market, and we do so according to certain rules. Then we've seen for ourselves that standard for what we're going to do -- that in addition to meeting our obligations, we're going to overcomply with them by 10 pst. When we do that account, we're going to have to buy significant amounts of allowances from others. So to the main image, it's not true that we're just a seller, we're doing both. We are part of the EU quota system, we are a natural player in it, and the total deletion will concern us in the same way as others. It is not true that only in EU countries it will be deleted and not in Norway. It will go up the price both in Norway and in other countries, so it will have the same consequences in all countries. For this reason, it is a proper tool that European countries – as part of the quota system – are asked to withdraw allowances, both because the ceiling will fall, emissions will decrease, but most importantly, the price will rise, so that one will be given a stronger incentive for migration in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e717	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e721	This summer I met a math teacher in Greece. His salary was set down several times, but all the family needed, went up in price. A son studied at a good university in England. Now the family could no longer pay the school money. The son must interrupt the studies. The spouse of the math teacher told them that in winter they too would be called. They don't have the money to buy new fuel oil. It's quite self-explanatory for this math teacher that when the income goes down and the price of what they need goes up, the pay doesn't go up. We have it different. We've run wisely and lived by our ability. We've been housed with our economy, and we've been housed with our most important resources, women and men who participate and work in our country. Participation is historically high. In everyday life, many people take this for granted, but other countries don't realize that it's possible and come to us to learn. In the past, it was said that the Norwegian model was not sustainable into the new era. Today we can say that no other model creates such great values and so much self-esteem of the individual through his own work as this particular model. Part of the model is that we have to solve crucial welfare tasks together. We build the welfare of the future through good education today. Good wit is equally distributed regardless of the private wealth of the families. In that case, joint schools are correct, and universities are to allocate places by effort and results and not by the family's ability to pay school fees. Good health has no known unit of measurement, but the mother of the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has formulated it this way: when we're healthy, we want a lot of things, when we're sick, we just want one thing. It's a political task here to ensure security for everyone. Health care must be an equivalent offer throughout the country completely independent of wealth. Then we have to create common solutions. Common families cannot save for a private heart transplant or for private hospitals. But all of us who have won the lottery and get to be fresh, can make this possible. Maybe I'll need the help of the community tomorrow. Community solutions are value choices. We need both equivalency and freedom of choice. It is a challenge to create equivalency in health services in a country with mountains, fjords, much weather and scattered settlement. I am not aware of any other country that has achieved this with our framework conditions. I have my regulars, and I can trade whenever I want. In the past, many district medical offices in Norway were empty — without a doctor, no doctor’s choice. We can choose hospitals for planned treatment. Several should consider it, so we make the system better known. Freedom of choice in terms of welfare shall continue to increase, but it shall not increase at the expense of equivalency. The right-hand side will have the release of private establishments in the specialist health service. In Norwegian reality, this can lead to new buildings in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, but private hospitals with short economic horizons will not be built in Hammerfest, Narvik, Namsos, Volda and Kongsvinger. On the other hand, the release of private hospitals in the capital area will drain public hospitals in Hammerfest, Narvik, Namsos, Volda and Kongswinger for doctors and nurses. The price is that the equivalency in our country is perplexing. The math teacher in Greece was paid so that the son had to leave the university. Our strong joint solutions built on equivalency and freedom of choice throughout the country are undermined if privatisation and centralisation become the policy objectives. The tax laws of the right-hand side provide less well-being for people in Norway. Twenty-five-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr will correspond to every five hospital bills. In that case, many people in Norway will have to feel the body. The opposition would claim something else, but bills would have to be paid. This can be confirmed by math teachers in Greece and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e745	From a larger perspective, where Norway is part of the world and part of Europe, and when I hear some of the representatives on the civil side describe their everyday lives in Norway, I just have to say that I do not know myself. I do not underestimate that these are challenges. I do not underestimate that there are tasks that should have been solved that will not be solved. But we live in Norway and live at the top of the crane sac, most of us. Despite a worrying international financial world and a Europe in crisis, both in terms of financial and social terms, Norway is doing well. Since 2005, more than 300 000 jobs have been created in Norway and about two thirds of them are in the private sector. This is not something that has come of itself. It's focused political work every day for people to have a job to go to, and for people to have a living that's safe. There is no doubt that our energy wealth has contributed significantly to the fact that we have been relatively protected so far from what is happening in Europe. But nothing has come of itself either. It is also a result of political elections. The management of our common resources will benefit the people. It's a political choice. Norway is an energy nation. Our wealth is built on energy – first through hydropower and the opportunity it gave us for industrial construction, then through the oil and gas industries. From 2005 until now, we have seen a large growth in the energy industry. Through the notification of petroleum, successful allocation rounds and the organisation of diversity on the base, we have facilitated a very positive development. In my home country of Rogaland, we have seen for over 40 years major ring-effects of great importance. Petroleum resources on Norwegian soil have provided the basis for a highly competent and internationally competitive oil and gas industry. There has also been a strong emphasis on health, the environment and safety and on good and orderly pay and working conditions. These have been important prerequisites for contributing to the success of petroleum activity on Norwegian soil. The supply industry of oil and gas companies has become one of the main drivers of growth in the Norwegian economy. The industry, as I said earlier, has had major ring-effects for Norwegian society over the past 40 years. The challenge now is to ensure that this industry continues to create local ring-effects when it is moving northwards. A guiding principle for the Workers' Party and for this government in energy policy is public ownership and that the management of the people's resources will benefit the people throughout the country. It's a political choice to point or say what you want. It is essential that we do not open up so that private actors acquire ownership of our power resources. Without a robust fall-back regime, that's exactly what could happen. We know that the centre of gravity of civil cooperation lies between the Progress Party and the Right. A few weeks ago, the Right Draft was ready. There we can read that they want to remove the right to return. It can hardly mean anything but that they plan to sell people's resources, as they did in Trondheim before they lost power there, and as they signal that they will do in Oslo. The government currently running — and the Workers’ Party — will continue to develop Norway as an energy nation. Then there are several challenges ahead of us, but in this work a clear public ownership is very important. The resources of the foxes, ponds and seabeds belong to the people, and they shall be managed by a clear public presence. On the civil side, they take the aim of ruling together. But what is very unclear to me after this debate is in what direction they are going to go. And what are they going to do? Yesterday, the representative Trine Skei asked the Grande representative, Siv Jensen, if she believes that climate change is man-made. The representative Jensen did not respond, nor yesterday. One of the world’s biggest challenges, namely climate issues — in the context of poverty challenges — is therefore not answered by one of the biggest civil parties. We know where we want to go, and we know what direction we're going in. That's why we act and implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e773	In 1984 the slogan "Four more years" rang throughout the United States. It was Ronald Reagan the Americans wanted re-elected. At the time, I was a freshman in Chicago, and the American enthusiasm made an indelible impression on me. Ronald Reagan, who in Norway was ridiculed and stamped as a B-caliber actor, had in four years gathered the Americans and made them believe in themselves again. Norway is one of the luckiest countries in the world. We have resources at sea, we have a lot of people with high education, and we have huge savings. With such a starting point, it would be thought that Norway's government produced good results for most people on a continuous basis, and that the enthusiasm of Reagan's jubilee was to be found both inside and outside the Stoltenberg crew. But, no, in Norway there are no shouts of exultation. Seven years of red-green rule have created everything but enthusiasm. How is that possible? How is it possible that a government with almost unlimited opportunities has not created that little optimism or belief in the future? Let me mention some areas, areas that are in stark contrast to the Prime Minister's beauties. Norway has major health challenges. The organisation is under every criticism – health bureaucracy is increasing, the discharge is flourishing, professionals are not at work when needed, and health cows are increasing. In a country with five million people, we have arranged for more and more young people to be granted a disability pension. Everyone knows that many of these can contribute, but something like this is too uncomfortable to ask for, and we'll pay off the problems rather. "Do your duty - Claim your right" is an out-of-date slogan. Yes, it belongs to another time – yes, it belongs to a completely different Working Party. Today’s government is pursuing an immigration policy that, according to the SSB, will lead to first- and second-generation immigrants making up a majority of the population of the country’s capital by 2040. The Prime Minister is constantly finding new terms of reference for this development, and today developments were defined as enriching the original Norwegian language. The Prime Minister's vocabulary is boundless. Norway contributes to the maintenance of different cultures around the world. What about a little focus on maintaining our own culture and identity? We have a justice policy with a one-sided focus on getting every criminal back to society as quickly as possible. The victim becomes a balancing point for a higher ideological goal: a society based on dialogue, where punishment is not a necessary evil, but only a evil. Last but not least: Norway has a tax system that helps to push wages into the weather and forces Norwegian valuers out of the country. We're not doing this because we need the money, but because the government is terrified that a single penny will fall to those who have the most from before. Norwegian money has grown more, while the country’s challenges far exceed what can be paid with money. Many countries in Europe are experiencing an economic crisis. Norway sits on the green branch. Norway has every opportunity to take advantage of Europe’s crisis for its own benefit. Not enough: at the same time, such a strategy will be the best for Europe. We don't have to sit on the green branch and wait on when the crisis hits us. We can do something ourselves to avoid it happening. Then we have to think about something new. It makes no sense to use exactly the same politics and rhetoric when the world around us changes. Yes, predictability is good, but when you can recycle the census and the financial figure year after year, it's not a sign of predictability, but a lack of vision and ability to convert. It is now, while large parts of Europe are down with their backs, that Norway should take advantage of the benefits of our solid economy. We should take advantage of our comparative advantage, capital. It is right now that we should announce a number of competitions for road construction and other infrastructure. This should preferably be done through the establishment of state infrastructure companies, because while there is insufficient skilled labour force in Norway, thousands of Greek, Spanish and Italian engineers go unemployed in their country of origin. The Progress Party challenges the government to rethink: Establish South European labour bridges based on the North Sea turnaround principle. Such schemes will make all winners. The construction of Norwegian roads and other infrastructure is speeding up, the south of Europe is getting work on Norwegian pay terms, income is being used in its home country, while the Norwegian welfare system is not being burdened. The Progress Party will use tax incentives to maintain activity and value creation in Norway. We must have a competitive tax level, both for businesses and for workers. Given market opportunities, the market will create. It is the market that creates jobs, not governments. Governments are organizers, and taxes are a tool. The Progress Party conducts a responsible economic policy. We believe that people are creative and creative and that through the market they will create opportunities for themselves and others. The main task of the government is to stay away from it. No matter how well-intentioned they may be – creativity needs at least regulation, restrictions and other bureaucratic obstacles. Give enterprises the opportunity to grow on market premises. Reduce taxes on labour and capital and allow enterprises to keep profits so that they can make new investments. It is therefore precisely a reduction of taxes on ordinary income and the removal of the wealth tax of a responsible economic act that will give ground to new technologies and new jobs. What is really economically irresponsible is for the government to doubt these tax revenues and imagine that it is better to invest this money than the original owners of the money are. It's an illusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e803	The right-wing leader asked at the beginning of this debate whether we are able to translate what we are «adopting in this room, to actually become policies that people out there know?». All Norwegian society is characterised by the fact that despite the financial crisis, Norway has one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. While there was hardly any increase in the number of jobs in Norway in the right-hand-dominated government before the financial crisis, there are more than 300,000 new jobs created by this government, most in private business. Children’s families throughout the country notice every day that this government has managed to reach full child care coverage, and that the price has been reduced by about NOK 1000 each month. Although there are many unresolved health and care tasks, it is noted that the number of investigations and treatment has increased by about 1.4 million. We are among the foremost in the world in the treatment of cervical cancer and are among the best in Europe for breast cancer. I am equally convinced that across the country, we have implemented the promises we made about increased road and rail development. We have put forward, and follow, the national transport plan, where we increase the appropriations for road, rail and maritime transport by 100 billion. kr. These are important examples of the government’s will and ability to shape and implement policies that take Norway further. Much of what is being done is at the same time showing dividing lines between us and any Right/Fremskrit party rule. We've stopped the privatization of the schools, we've been guarding a common school, where the Right Party and the Advance Party, on the other hand, want free slips from private schools. The next fall is the choice of Norway to continue investing in the primary school, or whether to create a community with several private schools. We have chosen to expand welfare services in schools, care and cultural life in the municipalities, instead of providing great tax relief. Under the right-hand government, the number of employees in municipalities increased by less than 10000. Under this government, the number of employees has increased by well over 60000. I think many people remember rapporteurs all over the country in rebellion against Erna Solberg's policy, where she tightened up the offer in the municipalities to afford tax relief to the richest. Next fall is the choice of spending the big money on continuing school, care and cultural development, or whether we should spend the money on tax relief. We have stopped the Right and the Advance Party's decision to increase the use of temporary posts and, on the contrary, put in place a strong effort to prevent social dumping. The next harvest is the choice of strengthening the rights of workers, or of addressing new Right-wing Party trials, with a weakening of workers' rights. The choice of the next harvest is a direction choice. Will we build on the Norwegian model of which we are so proud, or will we fundamentally change the Norwegian society? Do we want what Siv Jensen calls ‘an entirely different Norway’ and so that there is ‘market thinking at all levels’, as Siv Jensen has said? Then we must constantly renew, improve and strengthen the welfare community. This government has carried out major simplifications for business where former governments have spoken. Loss of the audit obligation for the smallest enterprises and lower share capital requirements means reductions in the billion class of Norwegian enterprises. NHO Chief John G. Bernander said, ‘These are the simplification measures of the times’. The reform of pensions is one of the most important measures taken to ensure our common public confidence and to strengthen the ability to combine work and pensions – without cuts in pensions – the underemployment reform as well. Interaction reform is an essential step in improving the interaction of healthcare, just to mention some examples. Now we are faced with a new, major reform, a new digital administration. Norway shall be at the forefront of international action. We are doing this because the government has clear objectives for a society with increased freedom and security. We get it because the government takes up the challenges, and we get it because the government has the ability, the will and the power to implement. That's how we still want to take Norway further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e844	When I saw that the Council of State was on the list of speakers, I began to think a little bit about what should I be preparing questions about? What is the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, and what does he intend to talk about? I assumed that it was not the government's car system he wanted to talk about today, which is one of the few constitutional areas he is responsible for. But talking to each other, having a dialogue between the departments and, not least, between the state councils, I suppose I'm part of the Council of State's responsibility. We see that the cooperation reform – as the Council of State itself pointed out – was an important step in Norwegian health policy. There you communicate with taxis and faxes. So my question to the Council of State is: do you use the same form of communication between departments, or does he consider the Norwegian health service to be able to communicate on electronic platforms? And what will he do to make that happen, so they can stop using faxes and taxis?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e851	There are many challenges in the Norwegian health system. These have been taken into account by the government, among others. through major structural reforms, such as the reorganization of hospitals – have been fuelled by competence. We've got world-class results, as I also referred to in my post. But at the same time, we need to make the different parts of healthcare work better together. Then we cannot have a situation where patients, on the one hand, have to deal with the fact that the state owns parts of the healthcare system, and the municipalities. We have to make them talk better together. Therefore, it is essential to improve patient care that we have a better interaction between the different levels of healthcare. This is achieved through the Interaction Reform, and we see that the results are already good in implementing it. Then, of course, we also need to focus on developing an information technology, getting better communication between the different levels. This is addressed in the development of communication between the different levels and between the different institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e860	When you listen to Councillor Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, his presentation is probably one of the closest things you can get to a Ministry of Propaganda. I don't think people recognize themselves in the gloss picture, and I don't think people recognize themselves in the scare picture. Not too long ago, a department director in the Ministry of Culture wrote a very interesting chronicle in the Evening Post, where he described why things take time. He wrote: ‘Despite the loss of many tasks and the increasing number of employees, productivity appears to be declining.’ He describes a red tape in the departments that is not the responsibility of the bureaucrats, but is a political responsibility – and I would think it might be a Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen responsibility. My question is: what has this government done to reduce red tape and ensure greater effectiveness in government decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e874	Unfortunately, it is often the case that those who listen to a political debate may find it difficult to recognise themselves. For example, I believe that most people find it difficult to recognise when the representative, like other Right-wing representatives in this debate, tries to give a negative impression of a government that has first been given the country through the financial crisis, with Europe's lowest unemployment, alongside Liechtenstein, which implements the National Transport Plan, which lies miles beyond what the Right-wing Representative called Paper Money, before this government joined, but which has invested in an extra effort of 100 billion. kr, a government that has implemented full child-care coverage, a government that has implemented a major pension reform and disability reform, and is able to implement simplifications for business where the Right has spoken in the post-period period. Yes, this government has shown that it is able to act, and then it does not benefit that the Right is trying to produce it as if you are unable to implement it. People see it through. That's exactly what helps you not to recognize.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e881	Yes, the government is concerned with Community solutions, and it has also spent its 5 minutes telling the staging room. With regard to national climate policy, we are committed to Community solutions. In the 2008 climate agreement, and also in the 2012 climate agreement, we agreed that all parts of Norwegian society had to stand up to take part in climate change. In today's media there was doubt as to whether the gas and oil components should be included. One of the most important measures in this year’s climate change settlement was that at the height of Utsira, the findings were also to be electrified. It was tightened up in the climate agreement through the treatment that the Stortinget had in relation to the government had provided. My question then is: is it the Stortinget and the government that determine Norwegian climate policy, or is it the oil and gas companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e893	Of course, the government ensures that all parts of the climate communication and the climate agreement are followed up, including the themes that the representative here addresses. The Stortinget, through the treatment and through the agreement that was reached, has then said to have a thorough review of the issue of electrification. Of course, we'll make sure we do that. What I must nevertheless be allowed to say is that I have followed with interest the contributions of both the Christian People's Party and the Left in this debate. And it's like, among other things, The representative of Kolberg was in on earlier today, very much of a coincidence. What amazes me is how the representative, like the Christian People's Party, can believe that climate policy can be implemented more in cooperation with the Progress Party, how to believe that more aid policy can be implemented in cooperation with the Advance Party, and how to achieve more of the strong social commitment of the Christian People's Party, like the Workers' Party, in cooperation with the Progress Party. I must say, I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e900	It's never easy to know what to ask this council, and he's obviously having a little trouble figuring out what to talk about too, so he's testing out the AUF's school selection posts. And I can give you feedback that I think this might have been dragging it a little bit. But I'm going to ask a question about something that the Council of State has done in the past, the rule of action. It's a broad consensus in the hall. The rule of action has more elements than one sentence on monetary use. It's also about what you should spend the money for. The Bondevik II government used 80 pst. of the oil money of the long-term things that were agreed to be invested in: infrastructure, knowledge – all that was to be built on society in the future – while 20 pst. went to the operation of the State. Under this government it has turned around. Now 80 pst is used. for operation and 20 pst. to what the rule of action really talked about spending money on, namely investing in the future. Why has the Council of State remembered part of the rule of action and forgotten the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e913	I must say that I remember the rule of action very well and am afraid that it is the representative who remembers the rule of action incorrectly. There is nothing in the rule of action about what the money should be used for. On the other hand, the presentation of the action rule underlined the importance of having a long-term perspective. That's what this government has. That we've strengthened our national transport plan by 100 billion. kr, I think is a clear commitment to the future. The fact that we have strengthened research efforts to make it a significant real growth is a clear commitment to the future. Strengthening the quality of school, strengthening teacher training, strengthening the skills of teachers, is a clear commitment to the future. But it's not the way to bet on the skills of the teachers is a less bet on the future than building a road. Both are important. Then I'm probably also afraid that the representative is wrong about the broad consensus in this room, or full agreement in this room, about the rule of action. There is a broad consensus, but there is one party that does not agree, it is the Progress Party – with which the Left has unfortunately decided to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e922	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e925	When we started this debate yesterday, it was obvious that the opposition had decided that this year’s motto is ‘implementability’. Last year it was ‘competitive force’. That rule ended after we received constant evidence that Norwegian business is among the most innovative and competitive in the world. But this year it's 'implementability'. There's always a lot to criticize a government for, but it's hard to put forward a credible criticism of the inability to implement when we have a government that has actually addressed some of the really big structural challenges we have. Let's talk, for example. on Nav reform, pension reform, interaction reform, change of defence, etc., etc. There are big, heavy reforms – sometimes difficult. They require conversions that make us legally criticised. But we take responsibility – and we do – as opposed to the Bondevik government, which is pushing big challenges ahead. So the right side throughout this debate claims that they have so many new ideas, but with all sorts of respect, it's very difficult to get what all these flying new ideas are actually about. Erna Solberg made an attempt to inform us in his opening post. One of the few new ideas she came up with was the use of OPS. It's not a new idea. Spain and Portugal are two countries that have tried it, and the interrelationship of public and private financial solutions has given two very obvious results: a lot of debt and stoppages in all transport projects. Spain and Portugal are only two of the countries that have missed the use of OPS. It's not so strange, because the countries that started with this, now see the back of it. OPS may be horrific in the short term, but not in the long term, when the entire transport budget is bound up to pay OPS contributions. These are not new ideas, and the new ideas are little different from well-known taxation and privatisation policies. A lot can be said about it, but at least it's not new. It's not like you get a lot of new ideas from repeating enough that you have a lot of new ideas. Then, through the debate, we have also seen an opposition that stands together in eagerness to replace today's red-green government with the most dark blue Norway has seen. But it is divided into heavy, important policy areas. Throughout this debate, we have tried to challenge the Christian People's Party and the Left on where they are willing to grant concessions to the Advance Party. Is this the aid to the poor of the world to be sacrificed? We heard a few minutes ago the representative Tybring-Gjedde from this pulpit attacked multicultural Norway. Once again, is this the Progress Party going to get through? Is the climate policy to be put in the drawer? What welfare arrangements are there that these parties are willing to bury to meet the 100 billion mark. kr as required by the Progress Party in Tax Laws? Can they guarantee the rule of action? Are they going to demand that the Progress Party put its home-led rule of action in the drawer and ensure a stable, responsible economic policy? We don't get any answers. We get nothing but that they go to the elections on their own matters. But government change, they guarantee it, and it's obviously going to happen no matter what kind of policy a new government is going to take, and no matter what they have to put their own soul and identity in the drawer. The most important thing is to get rid of a government that rules in such a way that almost all arrows point in the right direction – because they want something new, without being able to specify what it is. But an obvious advantage of this, and as the debate clearly illustrates, is that the image of the voters becomes very transparent. One year before the elections, the options are very clear. We see a polarisation in Norwegian policy with the choices made by the Christian People's Party and the Left. There is between a red-green government – continuing to bet on Community solutions, continuing to bet on the security of people's lives, solving the big problems together – and a dark blue alternative, the most dark blue Norway has ever seen through its modern history. The politics isn't clear, we don't get clear answers, but we know that the centre of gravity of such a government is going to be at the intersection of the Right Party and the Advance Party. Amazingly, both the Left and the Christian People's Party now guarantee that such a change will happen – because they want something new, without responding to what it will be. I think this is going to be an exciting year. I look forward to the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e951	I'm proud to represent a feminist party in this room. I am proud that a Swedish State Council took the initiative to set up an equality committee to investigate Norwegian gender equality policy. Gender equality policy has never before been the subject of a similar broad review – we have received this because we had a feeling that we might not have been as equal as we love to believe in this country. Now, through the NOU 2012: 15 Gender Equality Policy, we have a good basis for a comprehensive and knowledge-based gender equality policy for the future. There are small differences between people in Norway, but unfortunately we find some systematic differences, such as: between sex. In yesterday's Evening Post we could read that Norwegian women have 60 pst. higher sick leave than men, pay differentials are surprisingly stable, and still the female is the primary caregiver in the family, while there are most men in the main positions of power in society. We should not forget that there has been a positive development. The emergence of kindergartens has given both parents the freedom to choose to work, that women have come out into working life and have more freedom to live off an economy. Fathers take the paper issue – from 1 July next year even more, hopefully – and attitudes are more positive towards an equal family model. But this has not come about by itself, it has come through political will, priorities and decisions. It is not enough – women do not have the same freedom as men. The investigation shows that we have a good deal left before we can say that both sexes enjoy the same degree of freedom. We'll be shaped from the moment we're new, really before we are. When my daughter went pregnant last year, she was constantly asked, Is it going to be a boy or a girl? To the answer: We don't know, the follow-up came: Yes, but what about clothes and equipment, then – isn't that difficult? So it's an expectation that you'll already have to conquer the sex in your pregnancy. Research shows that kindergarten staff have expectations and ideas about gender that reproduce stereotypes and gender role patterns. In the summer we could read in the newspaper that specially produced toys and clothes for the children based on sex have taken away completely. We have now received documentation that crushes the myth that we are in the goal of equality in Norway. It's time to discuss what to do. The Equality Committee has provided many suggestions for new ideas on how we should address the issue of equality, which we in SV are very pleased with. For Norwegian kindergarten and school, we have clear targets on gender equality. Laws and framework plans state that pedagogical work should counteract stereotypes and that teaching materials should be based on equality. But this does not happen in practice. The Committee recommends a nationwide pedagogical commitment to gender equality. This will include, inter alia: be able to provide skills-enhancing measures aimed at children’s facilities and initial training, to strengthen the gender perspective in school counselling, and to mentoring schemes in highly gender-based secondary education – I have also previously heard about gender equality scholarships to stimulate more untraditional choices. Sexual harassment is a major problem of equality that needs to be taken seriously. A recommendation is the establishment of a national programme to prevent sexual harassment and sexual abuse. The programme will focus on both school students and employees at school. It builds, among other things, on the experience of the South-Tronde Team, where a systematic and comprehensive effort has been made to combat sexual harassment. The top positions in Norwegian policy are completely human-dominated, with 80 pst. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Middle-aged men dominate to the degrees of Norwegian policy – it is a democratic problem. We have to work for better representation. It is important for democracy that elected assemblies are, in fact, representative of the population. There is a high time when offensive measures are being taken to promote equality in elected assemblies. Once again, it is recommended that a nationwide programme be developed: the breadth of public administration with objectives, among other things. increasing the proportion of women at all levels of elected work. New provision in the Elections Act on gender representation rules — where, among others: are required to discuss gender equality status before each choice — can also be a good measure. It is with some excitement that I look forward to working on gender equality policy for the future, with far more proposals than I have mentioned here. So far, I've heard arguments from the right that the integration strategy is what's best. But we've been trying that for a long time. It requires people who often lack gender equality skills themselves to integrate a gender perspective into everything they do. An intrusive thought, and in which we have believed, but in receipt when it does not lead to more equality. If we are to have a fairer society, with less differences than what we have today between people, including between sex, we must take the gender equality challenges seriously. Then we have to make bold and offensive decisions to succeed. In SV, we're ready for that. Only then can we have real freedom of choice for both sexes, it is our freedom to choose to be with our own children, the freedom to participate fully in employment or freedom from sexual harassment, violence and rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e979	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e982	In 1997, I co-authored the book Anderledeslanden – which is not self enough. Bears for the good of our country are government, environmental protection and international solidarity. In the dispute between the Union, we in the Central Party were on guard against the conflict between Norway and the supporters of the market-Norway. Today, 18 years after the EU vote, no one from the Labour Party or the Right dares to hold the Union as a dream or hope for the Norwegian people. The Union is in an economic, political crisis as a result of the fact that it is not possible over time to have an economic union without an associated political union. The EU today has a fundamental system flaw. Today, the political and social crisis is exacerbated in several countries. Today’s Norway is a different country in Europe, but a different country that is far too marine enough, due to the importance of the market Norway by the Union’s followers. Cohesion Norway is based on the goal of a level playing field between peoples, industries and parts of the country in Norway. There are currently very different profitability levels for business across the country. Inland Norway and large parts of the coast lose. Well-educated, well-educated youth doesn't get good enough prospects where they want to settle down with family across the country. The centralization is very strong. We experience the price of centralisation on the housing market. It has been shown that Norway is pursuing counter-cyclical policies. On the other hand, the active industrial policy – where the oil and gas sectors are given the real resources they need as a result of political decisions and very high profitability – means that the government must take this into account and dampen the involvement of other sectors of the economy. Thus, it is difficult to pursue cyclical policies in favour of the transformation and commercialisation of new technologies and the processing of our unique and rich renewable natural resources in the sea and the ice. However, this is the real needs of cohesion Norway today. This is a long-term policy to build the welfare state forward. The oil and gas supply industry is creating very much positive technological developments. Like other industries, they want smooth development, not growth and fall. Therefore, active industrial policy must slow down the growth rates in the sector. When we also learn that the sector is so fundamentally rocking with the complacency between industries, districts and professional groups and creates strong tensions and differences, political correction is needed. It is a warning when the teachers in Stavanger require a separate Stavanger supplement of perhaps NOK 100000. I understand the teachers, but such development is contrary to the supports of the good in our country. As our Prime Minister said, it is in good times that we choose wrong. There is no time for popular solutions in the short term that make Norwegian real income growth completely out of line with our neighbouring countries and our own productivity development. Then we leave the bill to the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e995	Right-wing Vice-Chairman Bent Höie claimed from this pulpit yesterday that we have got a more classed healthcare system, and he justifies his view that over 300,000 people in our country have private health insurance. The representative, Höie, recently wrote in a chronicle that such insurance should be unnecessary. Now I do not know whether the term 'crocodile tears' is a parliamentary term, so I shall not say it. But it is tempting to use such a term in relation to the Right's talk about private health insurance. The big, overwhelming question I have to deal with is this: If the Right believes that private health insurance is a sign of – or contributes to – a class-based healthcare system, why in the wide world did the civil government, including the Right, introduce tax exemptions for employer-paid treatment insurance in 2003? And when we have seen that such insurance is primarily business schemes that have benefited greatly from high-paid key personnel, why did the Right propose in 2010 to exempt private health insurance from both personal and employer taxes, after the red-green government removed such unsocial tax exemptions in 2006? The truth is that the use of private health insurance in the Nordic region has primarily speeded up when the right side has had the power. In Denmark, the proportion of such insurance increased dramatically during the civil government period, which was between 35 p.m. and 35 p.m. and 40 pst. of the employed today have private health insurance. Norway is actually behind our neighbouring countries in this area, and only a small fraction of such insurance is with us individually drawn. Most of them are business-owned, so they mainly benefit from high pay. It is a real pleasure for me to use just the debate on private health insurance to show the political differences between the Labour Party and the Right. Our choice is not to grant tax exemptions for the purchase of private health insurance to a high wage, as the Right does. So we're going to pick a different one, like this. to use earmarked funds for the ‘Rescue Backers’ scheme managed by regional health establishments. This scheme is aimed at early, multidisciplinary treatment and rehabilitation services for workers who are sick or who are at risk of becoming sick, and it is an offer for all, not just high pay. Therefore, the Right's sigh and moan in terms of private health insurance, a embarrassing show that I sincerely hope we can now not see carried forward in the public room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1008	This debate has much to do with how to spend money and too little about how to contribute to increased value creation. In the throne, the government says they're going to run an active business policy across the country and bet on areas where we have special intentions to create values, and that sounds pretty much positive. But when you start looking at what kind of bet the government has been doing on the food side in the last few years, you might wonder if that's what we see in practice. New capital injection into SAS – a market that works very well without interference from the state – and a significant increase in the subsidisation of an agricultural sector with desperate need for modernisation and conversion have been a clear example of what the government has called bets in areas where we have special plans for happiness. The last thing we've seen when the government imposes additional customs duties on agricultural products, despite the fact that this can affect the fisheries and aquaculture industries, which are among the most important industries we have. Norwegian exports of 33 million meals are put at risk to rock the Centre Party over the barrier at the next choice. The rhetoric is lost when the argument about short-range food is used to defend increased customs duties, while government policy in practice frames some of the most short-range we have, that is, our fishery products. The party to progress will therefore represent a renewal of industrial policy that provides the basis for growth and value creation along the coast. It provides security for the jobs in the districts. Norway has been and should continue to be a maritime nation. If a few are to do so in practice, one of the most important measures, all of which is to say that we have a good and fully-fledged net pay system. The working party has twice communicated around the introduction of a fully-fledged net pay scheme for a year. On Monday, the government will present the state budget for the last time. Then we'll have to measure her if she actually reaches the goal. I hope, on behalf of a whole business community along the coast, that they will finally keep up their promises. The party to progress will be the guarantor of a fully-fledged net pay scheme. The party of progress represents the action force that industry is now calling for. The business community is asking for freedom from government regulation, bureaucracy and the tax regime. Therefore, the Progress Party will remove the inheritance tax and property tax, in order to ensure the safety of Norwegian enterprises for their jobs and to lay the basis for new investments. For a number of years, industry has been asking for simplifications and deregulations in order to increase productivity. The Progress Party has the power to take up the fight against regulators in order to promote growth and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1023	Norway has recently passed five million inhabitants, and the SSB has estimated that we will be six million around 2030. The press areas are already struggling with major challenges in housing supply, capacity challenges in public transport, traffic queues and air quality problems, to mention something. If we are to tackle the development of the people without strengthening these problems, we need to reverse the trend that the increase is coming largely in the Oslo area. We have to put the whole country into action. Surveys show that many people want to move out of the press areas, but people are forced to live where there is work to get. The Central Party will have an industrial policy that will facilitate a viable business and value creation throughout the country. We need to ensure good, predictable framework conditions for existing businesses in the districts, such as: strong customs protection contributes, and we must facilitate the creation of new jobs, both State and private, as far as possible outside the press areas. Therefore, the Central Party will move the underlying state agencies out of Oslo to increase the number of skilled jobs across the country. Business is different from region to region. We have strengthened Innovation Norway and SIVA, and they need to be further developed as strategic tools for economic development across the country. In addition, we need to put in place regional schemes. Norway’s raw materials resource is located in the districts — oil, gas, seafood, agriculture and mineral resources, to name a few. The economy depends on efficient infrastructure and rapid market access to be competitive. Investment in transport must therefore benefit the whole country. The centre party also wants regional enlargement and strong labour market regions outside Oslo. Therefore, it is important that we prioritise both the development of infrastructure around Oslo and the transport project around our other major cities, and of course also projects around the districts. Upgrading and electrification of Trønderbanen and Rørosbanen, extension of E6 from Trondheim to Uppland border and good capacity on the collective offer in Trondheim are just as important for the Trondheim region as the intercity triangle is for the Oslo region. The district councils of Inland Norway have particularly major challenges. They do not have the opportunity to participate in either the oil adventure or the breeding adventure, and are often in regions with limited access to risk capital. Inland municipalities have great opportunities for development in travel life, and the Centre Party will work to get its own seed fund for travel life. Many of these municipalities also have large mineral resources. Mining industry needs to be revitalised in a sustainable way in order to ensure employment, value creation and local skills development. Therefore, the Central Party considers that a State mineral company must be set up. I am pleased that the government will now present a new strategy for the mineral industry. Both the city and the city depend on the government continuing to have an active district policy, and I look forward to the government submitting a communication on district and regional policy, a communication on value creation and development policies across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1041	Education is the best weapon against poverty, for justice and for the cohesion of social differences. Therefore, SV and the government will continue their efforts to improve the quality of education and training provision in Norway. Over the course of our seven years in government, we have been given full child care coverage, which documented helping children learn languages. It makes it easier for them when they start school. We have introduced free homework in lower classes. It gives students a better chance to acquire knowledge. It evens out class differences. We have introduced free teaching materials in school. It gives all children, regardless of someone's wallet, the opportunity to complete high school. We've strengthened the hours in both Norwegian, math and English. It increases competence. We've introduced physical activity. It increases the concentration. This work is now to be continued offensively. We want to introduce two babysittings a year, so that the offer gets even better. SV will extend free half-day nursery services to more children in the country. The Minister of Education has set the goal of completing as many young people as possible secondary school. The Government shall carry out a pilot project in which schools with needs take care of how many students a teacher should be responsible for. We are pleased that there are record young people who will be teachers. This will give us, as a nation, the resources needed to do an important job in school. Here it's important to ring around the public school. Right-wing alerts that there will be more private schools in Norway if they win the election. I'm not surprised. But it gives me the inspiration to fight for a continued majority on the left in Norwegian politics after the election. Such a majority is important in order to maintain the maximum price for kindergartens, free half-day kindergartens in many parts of the country, school homework and free learning material, because it will remove the right if they win the election. For the Right, it is important that private investors be able to make money on education. On the other hand, SV believes that we should be able to use precisely these resources and teaching resources to improve education for our children. It deserves our children, and it deserves our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1056	It is well known to everyone who sits in this hall, that the Center Party is a party that builds its policy on a principle of homonymity. As the populace, we think there should be equal possibilities regardless of each cage. For us, transport policy is also a fundamental pillar of a fair distribution among all the inhabitants of Norway. This means that we cannot use the ‘socially profitable’ scale in the short term. But if we're willing to have a slightly larger perspective, at least I'm overindulging in the fact that the money that we're currently using on transportation measures around the country will have a huge impact. It provides safe schoolrooms, efficient transport of goods and greater opportunities in the job market. TØI has calculated that there is a high potential for road investment – one can then create larger labour markets and obtain reasonable shuttle distances. It is also important, of course, with intercity betting here on the Austland, E39 along the coast and E134 east–west. But as the king said in the throne: ‘A well-functioning transport system is important for increased value creation and quality of life, and for putting the whole country into use.’ I would therefore like to point out to the county road network and to the centre's goal that we should be just as good at keeping this part of the road network in good claim as we are to bet on the national roads. The centre party believes that the forthcoming national transport plan should also include an upgrade programme for the county road network to ensure that the due date is taken again as quickly as on the national road network. People don't care about the level of government that own roads, it's quality and security that counts. But we must not forget that roads are the most important and sometimes the only means of transport in much of the country. When we stand at the entrance of a new year of work in Stortinget, some milestones point out in time to come. One of these peaks is the National Transport Plan. With our experience from the current NTP and from the previous one, we have every reason to rejoice. The transport network shall become more efficient and modern via increased frameworks, shorter planning times and more coherent and efficient deployment, and I would like to stress that we are to build more roads throughout the country. We can also save some traffic by expanding more broadband so that people can live and work anywhere. This will also result in less pressure in areas such as queue wear, high housing costs and lack of land. We have many good examples that counties, municipalities and power companies have obtained good solutions for broadband expansion. We also need to have more of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1074	The municipality of Norway has had a very strong population growth in recent years. No is the population growth in the municipality of Norway approx. 70,000 people per year. The main reason for this is immigration, and of course the municipalities have received many new additional costs, which they are forced to find funding for. It has never been so expensive to operate Norwegian municipalities as it is today. When you talk to local politicians, you don't feel that the government – the Stortinget – has followed the funding, so there are many municipalities that give feedback that they are struggling financially to get ends to meet. It also shows the financial overview. For this reason, the Progress Party expects that there will be a significant economic lift to Kommune-Noreg, and that a take on the serious population growth and the increasing challenges that Kommune-Noreg has faced both when it comes to an ageing population and when it comes to new tasks that have been transferred to the municipalities. It must be so that everyone can be assured that they will receive the welfare services you need when they are needed. We also have to do a power take-off to get rid of the unworthy queues. Another response we get from Kommune-Noreg is that most municipalities experience that there has been a significant narrowing in the freedom of action and the right of self-determination that one has in Kommune-Noreg. It applies in several areas. The main reason for this is that a person is given a circular form with detailed regulation and management. For example, the Planning and Building Act has become more detailed and more complicated in recent years. In addition, there is a higher level of over-test from governmental authorities than you have ever experienced before. There are also numbers that show that 94 pst. municipal plans will meet with countersigns or countersigns. So it's just going to be 6 pst. of the municipal plans that do not get that type of reactions. That means that one loses his freedom and his power of action in the municipality of Norway. Of course, it leads to increased bureaucracy, it becomes costly construction processes, and when it is built too expensive and also too little, we see the results of it: galloping prices, which are very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1085	The debate has shown through many red-green speeches that the Workers' Party and the Government have both the will and the strength of implementation. We've achieved results in all areas, but we're not saturated. There are still unresolved tasks that we want to address – in health policy, in knowledge Norway, in transport and a number of other areas. A review theme from the Right in the debate has been new ideas and new solutions, a rhetorical approach to producing the Workers' Party as old-fashioned. But what's really in that term, besides the Rightlavvo, that we learned about yesterday? Take Transport: OPS is the Right Solution, and it has to solve everything and really make way for the well-being, literally. But OPS is not a new solution. Firstly, the Workers' Party initiated the three OPS projects we have had in Norway. It is also the Labour Party in the government that has not started any more. Right we claim to be against OPS because we have private allergy. That's wrong. Private construction and maintenance of most roads in Norway. We're for this. We are against OPS because the experience from Europe shows that OPS is an animal and poor solution. Examples from Spain and Portugal are documented in previous articles. The United Kingdom is another example where OPS has dominated the economy, and it is the usual taxpayer who pays the highest price now. Right manufactures OPS as a quick fix. But how many projects will they start – 30, 40, 50? And what is the cost today and in the future? That's never going to answer to the right. OPS is not new and modern. It's probably tested, and several countries go away from this. The Swedish Minister of Finance, Anders Borg, has said very well about OPS: if they – that is, the private – want to lend us money at a significantly higher interest rate, this leads to more expensive costs on infrastructure. It would be crazy, I don't believe in manipulating budgets," said Anders Borg in 2008. And he's stuck to that attitude. I am surprised that the Right in Norway does not see the right in Sweden, the United Kingdom and a number of other countries see: OPS is the manipulation of the budgets, it is not good financial management, and it does not benefit future generations, on the contrary. Together with the new, double rule of action of the Progress Party, the alternative to our economic policy represents a model that countries around us have been drawing on. We are going to invest for the future, as the Labour Party and the government do today. But entrusting to future generations debt and bonds that we do not know the magnitude and consequences of is not a good inheritance to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1102	I still have a little bit on my mind when it comes to health policy. The right, like the Progress Party, has launched a concept of health policy that they are likely to hope to provide positive vibrations, namely: free choice of treatment. I understand that the Right serves such a concept, it is very useful when the bride is to be adorned. But the bridal sea – the main message of health policy – is actually something completely different, and you can see that when the bridesmaid is peeled off. For the Right, a policy that will send health services in our country out on dangerous roads, a policy based on old, useless goods of thought. The main message to the Right is that you will now roll out a private health service that will be able to function in line with the public, only with the small advantage that the private do not need to have an agreement with the state to send the bill there when treating patients. This is dramatic, and I have asked the Right Representatives the following questions several times in Stortinget: Does the Right really mean that e.g. large international groups with tax havens, free and unagreed, shall be able to establish hospital services where they want to operate, and in the medical areas where, for example: the profit is greater, and then send the bill to the state? The answers from the Right have been quite cryptic, but they have actually confirmed my fears. This puts the dilemmas in line, which were also addressed by the representative of Are Health. Firstly, with this in mind, two of the most important tools available in health policy, namely the possibility of prioritisation and distribution. In their programme, the right is saying that they will have stronger national, political management of hospitals, among other things. with a specific description of the minimum offer and the contents of the local hospital. How can it be possible when, at the same time, private operators will be able to establish hospital services freely and with content at their own discretion – at the expense of the State? What about learning across hospitals and businesses when innovations and ‘best practices’ are handled as business secrets, as they often, naturally, do in a commercial, market-driven system? There is otherwise very good profit in much of the private, commercial health service. No one should therefore doubt that the stakeholders are out there, ready to move into the health arena in a country like ours, which is willing to spend the large amount of money on health. If we are to have the world's best health care, it must be based on fair distribution, good priorities, clearly defined assignments and clear governance. That health service must be public. And then both private ideals and non-ideal actors can be a very good supplement that delivers services from agreement and on the basis of the priorities of elected politicians. This is the Norwegian model, which the right-hand side will now play.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1115	The right has become light blue, say those who want to explain the progress of the polls. If we're going to check a party's political color, it's best to go to the party program. Nor can we be accused of distorting what our political opponents stand for. I'm going to give a couple of test results, taken from the software design to the right for the next majorization period. The themes are not completely indifferent to the Norwegian people. One is about the future management of our natural resources. The other concerns the local maritime administration. First, the natural resources: the fall-back system needs to be changed, it is called, and the explanation is that municipalities and private individuals have to be equated with the state as the owner of our hydropower resources. It sounds great when the Right is talking about equality and free competition. But what the right does not say is that such equality and free competition in the hydropower sector will certainly lead to one thing: an extensive foreign ownership of Norwegian hydropower resources. The other is local maritime administration. On the right, it will strengthen the local maritime administration, legislate it and enable local authorities to exploit their own nutrient base, as stated in the programme draft. You can agree with that. But that's not the point. That's not where the question lies. The question is, how should the Right do that? I can give you an answer from the Right Program Draft: the Right Will Over Time Eliminate Property Tax. It also sounds good. Is that so bad? What does it have to do with local maritime administration? Well, that's just that property tax is the only municipal tax scheme, and Norwegian municipalities today have 7.6 billion. kr every year in property tax revenue. Each of these 7.6 billion goes to the welfare of the inhabitants. In fact, we all live in a municipality. In my world, this policy is the true opposite of what the Right is telling the voters that it is. That's what a modern word is called 'double communication'. There's a connection between the two things I'm drawing up, and that's how we in Norway will manage our natural resources. The regime we have today around the oil and gas industry in the North Sea did not come off the sea in the 1960s and 1970s. No, it was strongly inspired by the regime this hall created around the hydropower about a hundred years ago. Those of you who saw the interview with Finn Song at NRK the other day know that. And it boils down to the question: How is Norway going to manage its natural resources for the best for the whole country? For the Workers' Party, this applies to political ideology, where national ownership is absolutely fundamental. Secondly, value creation should also benefit those who relinquish their natural resources. I don't think I'm the color blind. This policy is as dark blue as it can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1132	The red-green government is happy to cut strings. It is bred by increased appropriations for transportation. The Christian People's Party is for every string that is cut, and we have voted for every single crown for transportation. However, the fact is that from 2006 until now there has been about zero growth in the state-wide increments per Norwegian when we adjust for the price rise. There is no state investment in roads. In addition to counties and municipalities, it is the driving lists through tolling schemes that provide a significant part of the funding. The Christian People's Party is not against tolls, on the contrary. Tolls allow for more predictable and comprehensive funding. And as long as the government refuses to use project finance and multiannual budgeting, toll projects are necessary to realise important road projects. But let's not pretend there's a heavy government investment investment going on, because it's not. I expect the government to increase the government's efforts to regain the enormous backlog we have on the road. And we have to provide more long-termity. In the UK Question Time on 26 October last year, the Prime Minister stated that ‘if Norway starts to finance road projects, we have done very foolishly’. The Prime Minister further stated: «Our problem is not that we have too little money, our problem is the total use of money and possibly pressure on interest rates. We don't have to buy roads on payment, we can give them cash." That is what the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom said. But the tolling system has interest charges that companies have to serve as a result of loans they raise in ordinary banks. The companies also have other operating costs. In addition, toll companies must advance their contribution to road construction and therefore receive interest. So if the government thinks that this is setting itself up very stupidly, the red-green government should grant more heads of government, but it doesn't. We have to call a spade a spade. Borrowing can be a sensible tool, project financing can provide predictability. OPS has advantages. The objective is better roads, better maintenance and more efficient use of resources. We have to think again about transportation. The red-greens have had seven years on them. The sector must be renewed, and I believe that this government must too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1150	On the Great Teacher Day, this can be true. The teacher is the school's most important resource. There are several measures that we are uncertain about will provide a better schooling, but one thing we know we work: more and better teachers. The key to a better school is the teacher. Without more and more skilled teachers, we can't create a school of knowledge and well-being. There are many who have tried to explain why the condition is as it is in the school. I think the problem is compounded, and that a lot of people might be right. We need to look at group sizes, classrooms and focus on basic skills. But an equally important question is whether the teacher today has time to be a teacher. The teacher now has a lot of roles and functions that go far beyond the core area, being a pedagogist. Social workers, specialist educators, administrators, curators, brokers, some mom and dad, etc. – this represents some of the tasks a teacher is challenged to do during a school day. I think we have to be more serious about the fact that the society we see outside the school is also reflected in the school. A child’s need for adult contact, one to talk to, one to see you – this does not stop on a school staircase. Teachers I meet in my daily work are great people who burn for what they're doing. They want to mean something to the children. They'll give them something they need for the rest of their lives. The sphere and its students will reflect the community of which they are part. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that general family policies will also help to create a good learning environment at school. Among other things, parental guidance, child and youth psychiatry, family counselling, fighting unemployment and adult education will help to create good growth conditions and have a positive impact on students’ focus on learning. The teacher’s role will always be lacking. Of course, close contact and trust between students and teachers are important and must be maintained. We don't want to increase the distance between students and teachers and the teacher doesn't care. But we need to give teachers better opportunity to be what they are supposed to be first and foremost, namely educators and knowledge intermediaries who have time to stay professionally up-to-date and develop good learning strategies. We need committed teachers, politicians, professionals, elephants and parents to create a good school – cooperation to raise the teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1165	First what I want to call a comment. It assumes that some of the Right's representatives, the last time now the representative Fleet, have said that I was offended by the criticism of the opposition. The representative of Sanner was the Secretary of State Schjøtt-Pedersen as Minister of Propaganda. I just note that the opposition needs to use such characteristics, and I say that it may not be necessary to do so in an attempt to get on the offensive. Rather, one can stick to the factual political debate, especially in this Chamber. So to what was fleet reasoning that it is necessary to have value creation in order to be able to finance the welfare goods. That's a natural thing to say, which I very much agree with the Fleet. However, what is the flaw, as I judge it, is when the fleet says that we have the new ideas, while the government is reliable and does not understand the problem. That's what I just don't understand. Firstly, the value creation in Norway has never been as high in Norway’s modern history as it has now been. Gross domestic product has increased more than in all other countries in Europe. Export has increased by 34 pst. We just saw the new surveys that show that the non-oil industry is also doing very well. This does not mean, of course, that we should not respect the pressure on Norwegian business – it is clear that we should have it. What fleet took up, which is what we call the two-way relationship between the oil industry and other industries, is a challenge. We fully respect that – of course. But it's not solved by reducing the taxes on wealth. It is all about fundamental structures in society, including: what I never understand is that the right parties do not take on board, namely that flexibility and dynamism in society, which is a prerequisite for a good business life, require a good public sector. The NHO has understood that. Therefore, the NHO never says a bad word about the development of the public sector. Just because they understand that without the welfare systems of the public sector, they do not get the dynamism. But here it's being attacked, and I want to say that's what's the fundamental attack on value creation, not the wealth tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1172	I agree with Mr Kolberg that the big debate should be substantive. I hope that after my speech he will take a serious talk with his parliamentary leader, Helga Pedersen, because Helga Pedersen had in his speech yesterday an unspeakable and powerful attack on the Right and our position in taking away the eugenic indication as an independent abortion criterion. Right will force women to bring forth fetuses without the brain, the representative Helga Pedersen performed to say in the throne debate yesterday. This is wrong. It's grossly wrong. It shows that she knows neither Right Policy nor Today's Abortion Act. Right will deprive women of the only criterion for abortion after the twelfth week, the representative Pedersen claimed, and reveals that she has not even read the Right proposal. She also reveals that she does not know the rules of today's abortion law. The 1975 Act of Abortion Section 2 lists a total of five criteria, not one, for abortion after 12 weeks. Right won't remove any of these criteria. Right-wing insists that today’s abortion legislation should be grounded, only with one clarification – the eugenic indication should not be an independent criterion for breaking the free abortion threshold. The right has proposed that Section 2(c) on disease in the foetus should not be a criterion alone. It must be seen in the context of the other criteria: § 2 (a) states that abortion should be allowed after 12 weeks if pregnancy, childbirth or care can lead to excessive stress on the physical or mental health of the woman. Paragraph 2(b) states that abortion is permitted after 12 weeks if the pregnancy, childbirth or care of the child can put the woman in a difficult situation. This is going to have to be the right hand side, just like the other requirements. In practice, the Right’s proposal has first and foremost something to say about disability, not serious, and at least not fatal diseases. That this would force women to bear fetuses without a brain, is a blank lie and a clean ingenuity. I'm surprised that Pedersen's sense filter did not stop her from saying something like that from Stortinget's pulpit, especially since the Right has clarified this several times after our programme proposal was presented. A Google search for ‘Right and Abortion’ would have given the answer that Pedersen’s representative was looking for, so she had escaped to make such a strong contribution from the Spokesman of the Stortinge, who only helps to reduce the quality of the debate in this room and, not least, creates unnecessary fear among women. That we should not allow selective abortion, based on gender, in today's abortion law is precisely because it is a limit to freedom, when the consequence of freedom becomes discrimination, which a society should not accept. That is also the background for the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1185	The majority has agreed that biotechnological laws should be evaluated. Work's in progress. Proposals for changes to the Biotechnology Act have been extensively debated in the media lately. It is proposals that present major value-related issues. The centre party has programmed that biotechnology and genetic engineering must be met from the basic assumption that all human beings have the right to life, regardless of their potential for development and abilities. The legislation in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering must take account of the positive possibilities in this field. At the same time, it is necessary to set clear limits on what is ethical, medical and resource-responsible. This means that it is not the technique alone that sets the standard for the type of reproduction technology that is allowed and that can be a public responsibility. This means that even if an offer is medically and ethically justified, it may not be resource-responsible and should be a public health responsibility. For example, using public health money on a national early ultrasound offer to all pregnant women in the traditional maternity care system when we know that this will not bring health benefits for mothers and/or children is a priority it will be difficult to defend. In addition, when we have experience of the need for professionals for public municipal maternity care, maternity care and maternity care, it is to prioritise professionals for an early ultrasonic supply far from being unproblematic from a priority point of view. The centre party has programmed that only foetal diagnostics should be provided to risk groups. That means that we don't want to make it right for all healthy pregnant women without risk factors to have the chromosome analysis carried out on the fetus. The center party group thinks it shouldn't be a right for singles to have children, but that this still has to be an offer for couples. We mean it's an important principle that a child has the right to know his biological origin. Fortunately, the child's right to know its origin is strong in today's law. It has to be passed on. The aim of today's Biotechnology Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of human beings in a society where there is room for all. It shall be in accordance with a principle of respect for human dignity, human rights, personal integrity, without discrimination on grounds of heritage, based on ethical standards, enshrined in our Western cultural heritage. I do not have an overarching debate on these important principles that are in today's Biotechnology Act. To date, the debate has been dominated by individual proposals. I'm glad that the Center Party is pleased that we are now receiving a big message on this, and that we are able to have such a debate. In that debate, we must respect the fact that this is a difficult political matter and a difficult political area, where we see dividing lines in position, in opposition and in the professional community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1199	It is such that the census is well-suited to have a debate between the position and the opposition on the long lines of evolution in society. In this way, I have to admit that I have been looking forward to a debate with the opposition – the Right Party and the Progress Party – especially in the field of knowledge policy. It is an area in which they have put great political prestige. But so far it has our thin stuff. I'm actually going to let the Progress Party and Siv Jensen lie – her contribution in the main post was equal to zero, zero. So she had ten minutes at her disposal – good time to go through the Progress Party's view of knowledge policy and how important he would be to the development of society, but she chose not to mention it in one word. I'll mention another embarrassing approach from Siv Jensen, and it's about climate policy and climate reconciliation. The Progress Party's contribution to the debate and concern are open – the most important thing for them is that the climate agreement must take account of their needs. Of course – most people are a few in it. So it wasn't a divisive word about the climate, about the environment, about nature – or about that part of man. In that perspective, to the extent that it was very enlightening to us, the other why she chose not to answer — direct questions from the Left — whether it could be thought that climate change could be man-made. When it comes to the Right, this party likes to represent itself as the great knowledge party. But again – cause, good president: Right stands out more puzzles, more back-coding and less visionary in this field than ever. I'll explain why. I honestly believe that Kristin Clemet is no longer particularly rare – not even in a payroom. The big new thing in yesterday's debate was when the representative Erna Solberg was able to launch a Document 8 proposal on decentralised training for adults. I registered imaginative Necking in the entire hall – from all batches. In short, all the parties are some here, and all the other parties have incorporated this into their programs. So welcome after, right! Another area that Right tries to profile – with alternating brightness – is professional. It's a commendable experiment, but the right recipe and right's problem is that they want to weaken the professional profile of education through extensive use of letters of practice. It's a system that doesn't even want business — yes, it even warns against weakening the knowledge-based and professional level of students in this way. In one area, we are in the Labour Party and the Right, on the other hand, a few, and it's in the view of how important the teacher is. Everybody knows there's a big difference between school and school, but there's a bigger difference between classrooms and classrooms. It says a little bit about the meaning of the quality of the teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1217	When I hear the concern of the Red-Greens for the future of the Christian People's Party, I wonder not only whether they have run out of new ideas themselves, as former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has expressed, but also whether they have lost faith that the policy they run will give votes in the elections in September 2013. I'm going to try to calm the red-green colleagues in the room by stressing that the Christian People's Party is and becomes a centre party. Christian People's Party is a solution-oriented party. We go to elections because we want a change of government, and we want new policies in important areas of the Christian People's Party. It's not enough to sit on the stand for four more years and look at a policy that's red-green. The Christian People's Party says we need a new government. We need a government that sees the needs of individuals, not just the requirements of systems. We need a government to meet the needs of families – not just try to control them. We need a government that supports volunteering – and that's not trying to control it. We need a government that does not give up the fight against poverty at home and outside, but rather chooses to say that nothing – nothing – should be out of the question. We need a government that will implement the dignity guarantee in practice, not just on paper. We need a government that shows an understanding of the importance of Christianity for individuals in our country and for Norway as a society. Let it be clear that a voice to the Christian People's Party on election day is a voice to the Christian People's Party policy – and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1228	Siri A. Meling is the next speaker. - She doesn't seem to be in the room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1233	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1238	Then she has regained her breath and comes to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1241	President, it's about being well conditioned. The debate of the throne is approaching the end. It's been a good debate. I think I see clear outlines of what policy options we have before the elections next year. The right has taken the opportunity to talk about both our new ideas and better solutions. The government parties have taken the opportunity to talk about what they've been doing over the last seven years. There are two things that concern me: the first is the self-righteousness shown by the red-green representatives from the pulpit. But what worries me most is the lack of implementation we see in today's government. I especially see that in my own field as a member of the Energy and Environment Committee. First, it took the year and day before the government was allowed to submit the climate communication. It should have arrived in 2010 but was not submitted until 2012. Then we have predatory policy. Here the government could not present its own policy proposal, but sent the challenge right to the Stortinget. Here we jointly made a predatory settlement. Thank God the Stortinget has more executive power than the government. I could have mentioned the moon landing at Mongstad, which was once launched by the Prime Minister. I could have talked about the cleaning of Kårstø – or rather the lack of cleaning. But what's most significant is the government's debt with the introduction of green certificates. The scheme was envisaged by the previous civil government and was planned to be put in place from 1 January 2007. The government's lack of enforcement led to green certificates becoming a reality five years too late. Green certificates are important to ensure the development of renewable energy, but there is a lack of effective implementation by the government. The government's climate communication got better when other parties got involved in the policy design. So it was through the collaboration with, among other things. Right to get new ideas and better solutions in climate policy. I think you should take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1262	It's always interesting to listen to Martin Kolberg. I'm going to start by giving him right on two points, but then I have to add two points where the representative is wrong. That's right, as Martin Kolberg says, a lot goes well in Norway. It is also true, as Martin Kolberg says, that parts of Norwegian business are facing significant challenges. But Marin Kolberg is wrong when he first says that the property tax, the strange tax on Norwegian jobs, is not a problem for Norwegian companies. Of course it is. For this purpose, there is a peculiar tax that only applies to Norwegian workplaces. According to the OECD and the Ministry of Finance, the effective tax on the return on investment in shares is 113 pst. Of course, this means that it becomes less profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs, and many owners have to drain the company for capital to pay the strange tax. The second point where the representative Martin Kolberg is wrong is that the right is just talking about property taxes in the case of businesses. We're talking about the value of investing in knowledge, investing in research. Once the funding for research has been stagnated for two consecutive years – in 2011 and 2012 – according to the government's own calculations, it is clear that over time the innovation capacity of Norwegian industry is also weakened. We're talking about the value of investing in infrastructure, and we're talking about the importance of having good framework conditions. When, according to the government itself, the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises has deteriorated each year under the red-green government – the cost competitiveness – it is clear that it will over time lead to challenges. When productivity growth in Norway has been at the same level as — or lower than — in our trading partners, while at the same time taking out much higher wage growth, it is clear that it will have an impact over time. These challenges are not sufficiently addressed by the government – there will be too much short-termity and too little long-term thinking. Yeah, it's great to have removed the audit obligation for the small companies. However, the World Economic Forum presented a report a few days ago showing that in the case of public regulation, Norway is 65th in terms of the burden on Norwegian enterprises. Sweden is in 8th place; Finland is in 9th place. Norway has fallen. The question is, what can the government do for 12 years that you haven't completed in eight years? There is a need for someone to address these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1279	Let me first point out that Stortinget got an interesting information in Kjersti Toppe's article. She stated that the issue of changes to the Biotechnology Act will be presented to the Stortinget in the form of a notification. That's a good news, because it gives both government and greatness the opportunity to think about, before making the drastic changes that are on the stairs. In addition, if you follow the advice of the representative Toppe, it can be a lot better than fear. I must say – as I listened to the debate – that I believe this accusation of lack of action directed at the government and government parties must have taken place in the middle of solar plexus. I do not know if it is a parliamentary expression, but now it was said. You get so frantic in beating back that you take the credit for absolutely everything that's good in Norwegian society. The representative of Svein Roald Hansen was probably the longest to list up the ripples and bits of public reform in the last 10–15 years that had not been spoken if it had not been for social democracy. That reminds me a little of my colleagues in Sweden, i.e. Svein Roald Hansen's colleagues in Sweden, who wanted to take patents on the Nordic model and applied to the Patent Board for it. So unyanished is not this. I can reassure the red-green representatives in the room: they are not without action. They have a lot of action, but they're using it wrong -- that's what the problem is, from the Christian People's Party. This power of action has been used to remove the K for Christianity in the CRL field, and a great number of non-profit institutions have been laid down because of excessive use of bids and market solutions in an area that is not appropriate, and much of the protection of unborn life provided by the Christian People's Party in the Biotechnology Act has been removed in the previous period. If the representative Kolberg and his colleagues are surprised that it makes an impression on the Christian People's Party, I am a little surprised. Then they know us badly. These and a number of other issues – I could mention the marriage law, etc. – has made a deep impression on the Christian People's Party, our members and our voters. If they're looking for an explanation that we want a new government, where we can put our influence on politics, they have some of the answer here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1290	Much is good in Health-Norway, thanks to an incredible effort from the many who work for daily work at medical offices, hospitals and other institutions. At the same time, government policies have led to over 280 000 people in health queues at the beginning of 2012. There are 80,000 more than when the red-green government took over. In 2005, 68 000 Nordics had private health insurance, in 2012 the number was increased to 300,000 according to the Today’s Business. The government boasts more money to health, but patients and health professionals experience cut, high pressure, demanding changes and chaos. This shows that the government has a lack of ground contact and implementation power. The question many people ask is: How will they manage to bring down health cows in the next four years – that is, if they are given a new trust after the next major elections – when health cows have increased by 80,000 people in the first seven years of their life? The reason for the growth of health cows and private health insurance is that public health services have too little capacity, while purchasing too few places from private institutions. Patients experience that, after contact with the health business, they cannot receive them until weeks and months have elapsed, while there is room for time on the day when they are paid out of their own pocket. This is unfair, unnecessary and unsocial. The result is a two-part healthcare service, where they can buy with money past the queue, while the others have to wait. If there is a question of cancer diagnosis, patients must live with uncertainty as to whether or not they have cancer for many weeks or months. This is unfair. Too many mistakes are made in the Norwegian health system. As many as 15,000 patients are injured annually, and 2,000 are killed as a result of health problems. Too little work is done to increase the quality of the treatment, and too little is learned from the mistakes made. The right in its programme design for the major elections for the forthcoming enlargement period has presented very good and thorough proposals. The right has new ideas and better solutions for cutting health cows and waiting times, so that patients receive treatment more quickly. There are several good reasons to replace this government in 2013 – health policy is absolutely one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1305	Right formulations in the programme, on changes in abortion legislation, have raised concerns and reactions. What I heard the representative Höie do here from the pulpit was to confirm that the Right will remove §2(c) of the abortion law. § 2(c) refers to the criterion of abortion after 12 weeks. There are five criteria – c is the only one dealing with the condition of the foetus. It states that abortion may be granted where there is a serious risk that the child may be seriously ill as a result of heritable conditions, diseases or harmful effects during pregnancy. The other four criteria for granting abortion after the 12th week are only the mental health of the pregnant woman, the health of the other or social situation. What the right does, is to raise the issue of removing the only criterion that is about the state of the foetus. If you remove that criterion, the abortion students will no longer be allowed to grant abortion if there is any serious problem with the foetus. In other words, if Section 2(c) is removed, the consequence is that women may be forced to produce non-viable foetuses or missing vital organs. Figures from 2010 show that the subject of abortion has granted 43 abortions with a background to Down syndrome and 217 abortions with a background to serious malformations and a high risk of mortality. So with the tightening up that Right has been called for, you remove the certainty that if a mother is found to be seriously deformed, she will not carry it until birth. To a party that otherwise celebrates the individual's freedom, I have to say: this is a strange manoeuvre in a very fundamental area for most women and families. The right hand can't be surprised that this triggers reactions and is also referred to from the Storting pulpit. As far as the debate is concerned, it confirms that this hall is divided into two parts as regards the choice of social direction. I also record that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the other opposition parties would very much like to have a change of government and lead the country in a different direction, but they are surprisingly not willing to provide the necessary clarifications on key issues such as economic policy, oil money use and the level of tax cuts. I had actually expected those answers to be received during these two days, but I have to note that we have not received them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1315	It's been an interesting debate. I only have a few comments on some of the things that were going on yesterday. Several representatives, both from the Right and, to the extent, from the Progress Party, are trying to pulverize the relationship between the level of taxation, tax revenue and what it is possible to regain in terms of well-being. They're munching, and they're pulverizing. Especially bad is it when the Right Leader and Prime Minister candidate, Erna Solberg, get from this pulpit and elsewhere, to say that the action space for the government from 2005 until 2012 has been – as I have heard – over 300 billion. kr. What she's talking about then is current prices where the price increase has not been taken into account all these years. If you do that, the number isn't over 300 billion. DKr, but Br. 140. kr. I assume that the Right Leader and Right, with the Progress Party on the back of economic policy, has also in the future intended to cover increased pensions, social security, etc. through increased payments through the provision of public funds. If you take that number into account, it's not the What is the point of such a number discussion? Well, the point is that when we hear promises from the Right and the Advance Party that they will cut the taxes by between 25 billion. kr, which is approx. 25 pst. of this space of action, one fourth, and 100 billion. kr – The Progress Party confirmed, by its fiscal spokesman at the latest this summer, that the fiscal commitments of nearly 100 billion. kr is at hand – then you have to be Right-Man or Advance Party representative to not see that there is a clear link between how much money you are willing to pay in taxes and what you get back on welfare. In the worst case, put on the verge – now I don't think it will happen, but it could have happened that the unfortunate thing happened that Siv Jensen was even bigger than she is today and got even more influence over the economic policy of the Right than she has today – could the entire space of action in the two previous periods of ageing we now have behind us go to finance the tax cuts. I think it's so serious that it's okay to clarify those numbers here and now, so we can put this dead and agree that it's quite fair to propose tax cuts, but then it has clear implications on what you have the opportunity to pay for in terms of well-being. Also in the world's richest countries, there is a clear correlation between the level of taxation and what we get back in terms of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1326	It is tempting to start by saying to the representative Micaelsen that I have no ambitions to get bigger than what I am today, but that I have great ambitions to make the Progress Party bigger than they are today. So I can basically say that I think the most interesting thing about this debate is the level of aggression, the level of frustration, carried out by the government parties through these two days. Helga Pedersen calls for what she calls "necessary clarifications" from the non-socialist parties. Well, the voters seem to have gotten these clarifications. The voters seem to want a change, want a change. But inside I also think that the red-green parties have got this, according to the level of aggression to judge. There has been a debate in which the government parties have completely abandoned focusing on their own affairs and spent all their energy on slightly distorted claims addressed to the Progress Party, the Right and the other non-socialist parties. I am not going to fall for the temptation to go down to that level of debate. I think we're at a high level of factuality, and we're about to show the voters what we actually want. The party of progress is not ashamed to go to the choice of lower taxes and taxes. Here too, I think the voters have understood that it is possible to both reduce the overall tax burden and to invest in important priority tasks within the welfare community. There is a third part, which also calls for voters, namely cut in red tape, cut in administration, cut in unnecessary tasks, which are increasingly spent on taxpayers' money, and on which voters sit and wonder why you do all day, when others can do those tasks in a cheaper and better way than politicians. Much of the political debate in the future will be about the existence of alternative ways of addressing societal challenges. I welcome every debate we have to have before the elections, where we can bring out the differences in the current government and the alternative solutions of the Progress Party. We will continue to do so, continue to focus on the solutions of the Progress Party for freedom, for security and show it through our ability to act. Finally, just a brief explanation of vote on the Left's proposal No. 5-14: The Progress Party will vote in favour of proposals Nos. 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12 and 14, and we're going to vote against proposal No. 9 and 13. Only very short to proposal No. 13: We agree in part with the intention of the proposal, but believe that it appears too general and will therefore also come back to defining it through a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1337	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1340	The government parties have used this year's persuasion debate to spread horrors about the Right instead of talking about their own policies. The representative, Tor Bremer, used his speech to spread mistruths about the Right Professional Policy. For the Right, the most important now is the provision of common vocational training and adequate apprenticeships, and in none of these areas does the government deliver as expected. The second proposal, which Bremer mentioned, on lifelong learning and decentralised, flexible provision of education, could not have been read, at least not in the light of the comments that came from the pulpit. On the world's day of learning, I am happy to say that the Right has shown far greater will and ability to give priority to raising teachers' skills. It's incredibly important if we're going to have a good public school to be able to lift all the students, regardless of their parents' background. If there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that when the school history is going to be written, Kristin Clemet will be standing as the knowledge minister who got Norwegian school back on track as a place to learn, not a place to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1347	I think there might be reason to remember that it is not the level of taxation that is crucial for the amount of tax revenue a country receives, but the tax base. It is the economic activity of a country that provides the basis for tax imposition. It's e.g. countries that are currently in economic crisis in Europe, which have had a higher formal level of taxation than Norway has, but because they have failed to take care of the resources in their society — among others. build good enough innovation, know-how – and because they have had crooked tax systems, which prevent them from taxing on the tax base they have, or distorting it, they also do not get a good welfare state based on that tax money, and they get less input, even if the level is initially higher. This is one of the main reasons for the tax relief for which the Right concerns. It is not primarily a question of the level of taxes, but of removing and changing things in our tax system that are bad. The taxes on wealth are bad. The property tax is a tax that contributes to the need for companies that have a deficit to take out money and clear their equity in order to pay taxes, instead of using that money to further develop products. This is one of the reasons why we now have the wrong incentives in relation to what is a problem: that Norwegian business is researching and developing too little to get a good tax base in the future. I understand that the Workers' Party does not understand it. This is probably also one of the main reasons why they should leave government offices. If you don't understand as basic things as that when you empty businesses that run with a deficit year after year, you help them eventually roll over. That's how a negative tax system actually works. Another thing that's important about this is -- it sounds like we get a great deal -- that when we sum up and say that the promises in our program will be maximum up to 25 billion. kr, and that we want to phase it in, adapted to the Norwegian economy, it looks like the Workers' Party has forgotten that the last time we put in government and lowered taxes, they thought it was so comfortable that we had done it, that they kept 19 billion. kr of that sinking. So it's going to be 6 billion. kr in contrast to what appears to be ‘fine’. If it was the case that the tax level was decisive, you should have raised it by 19 billion. NOK, because then you could get so much more well-being for it. Then we could, for example, have reintroduced the investment tax – which the previous government had to remove – in order to contribute to better development in Norwegian business. It is fully possible to have a good, balanced welfare development, create a better basis for the future and have tax reliefs at the same time. I was actually going to give a little explanation of vote. I can redraw to it, or can I take it quickly now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1362	If it goes fast, it's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1365	With regard to the proposals from the Left, the Right will vote in favour of the proposals No. 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, and 13. Some suggestions are obvious that we are opposed. As regards proposal No: 11, I would like to say: we are really in favour of this proposal, but when we made a climate agreement, where we agreed on this particular issue, we do not think we should use the first day of the decision in Stortinget to make new demands in this area that we agreed on during the climate negotiations. With regard to proposals Nos. 1-4, then we vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We are in favour of reorganisations and some changes in both national and rail investment, but we are not sure that it is Statnett – the state enterprise solution – that is the answer to these questions, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1376	The representative Aspaker's remark reminded me of one thing that we have been about earlier in the debate. It's that it's very good to have a place to be if you're going to learn, and so it's a problem that maintaining those places isn't part of the Right's knowledge policy. I began this debate by calling for attention to be given to what is the most important issue of our time — the danger of significant climate change in the years and decades to come. I said it must be case number. 1, priority No. One, for all of us. Looking back on the debate that has been going on today and yesterday, we see that for the two largest opposition parties, this issue clearly appears to be totally uninteresting, because it has been completely absent from the Right and the Progress Party agenda. It is even the case that, after Trine Skei Grande's strong and admirable stamina in challenging the representative, Siv Jensen, on the question of whether there are man-made climate change, we are all still eagerly awaiting the answer. We'll see if there's anything coming before the next throne debate. There's been a lot of talk about implementation. It shows that the Right and Advance Party are committed to creating a discussion that gives the impression that the contradictions in Norwegian policy are only about whether one is the best to implement something that we all largely agree on. It's not like that. The contradictions in Norwegian policy are about important choices for this society, about different directions we're going to go in. That's why it's striking that the Right Party and the Advance Party so little choose to talk about it, because when they're pressured, they admit they're still in favour of -- privatisation of the school, 25 billion. kr in tax bills if it becomes the disappointing version of Siv Jensen, and much more if she is to be happy. Zero interest in climate issues, and it's these questions that determine what kind of mainstream Norwegian society is going to go in the years to come. That is why, once again, we have seen the Right Party and the Progress Party being the best one to complain about the government's implementation in various areas and not being willing to talk about its own central political objectives. They have to get used to being challenged on it. I think it's because of low self-confidence that people actually want right-wing policies. The right-hand side knows that large tax havens for those who already have the most, privatisation and increased differences are not popular in Norway. That's why I'm going to meet this big year and the election campaign optimistically.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1387	There has been an interesting debate, which has clarified important differences. I would like to comment on an article from earlier today. It was the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who kicked a little to the Central Party, to the government. She said something like that through customs changes, through Norwegian agricultural policy, Norway does not show solidarity with a Europe in crisis. Yes, we share the concerns of the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for unemployment and social uprisings in Europe. Yes, we share the concern about the impact of the crisis in Europe on the Norwegian economy. But it is probably a bit of an exaggeration in this Chamber to mention Norwegian agriculture, the Norwegian food industry, this customs protection which is also enshrined in the existing WTO agreement – yes, even in the agricultural policy of the Centre Party – as a cause of the crisis in Europe, as the representative Eriksen Soreide almost does. In fact, agricultural policy is important, but it must be called overkill to blame the protection needs of the Norwegian food industry for being responsible for 20 pst. unemployment in many European countries, the social challenges, etc. The opinion shows more Right’s lack of will and ability to safeguard Norwegian business, securing Norwegian interests in situations where we come into discussions with the EU, where we have different interests in relation to the EU. This time, for example, is the case with the use of customs protection. I want to repeat what I said in my post yesterday, that the right hand is more in the hand than any other party in the case of the EEA and the EU. It is to the detriment of Norwegian industry, it is to the detriment of Norwegian interests. We need to take advantage of the space we have in relation to our trading partners, through WTO agreements, through EEA agreements and through the free trade agreements we have. Finally, on the subject of implementation, I would like to point out that this government has done more than ever in terms of national transport, in the transport sector, in terms of cultural promise, child care and, above all, modernisation of defence. This shows that the government is acting – it shows that the government is implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1400	Bent Höie has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1403	I disagree with the representative of Audun Lysbakken that the representatives of the Right have spoken about the government's policy. Right-wing representatives have largely talked about Right-wing policy, but so have the government's representatives. They've basically talked about Right Policy, or to clarify it, they've basically talked about what they wanted to be Right Policy. The last time was the representative Helga Pedersen, who obviously didn't realize that even if a lie is repeated, it won't be more right for it. I said from the pulpit while the representative was sitting in the hall: right won't remove any of the criteria in today's abortion law. The right has proposed that the eugenic indication should not be an independent criterion but be seen in conjunction with the other. So in order for the representative Helga Pedersen to bring this with me – since I said the same thing when the program was presented, and said the same thing from the pulpit – I say it again: the right will not remove any of the criteria in today's abortion law. The right shall not remove any of the criteria of the current abortion law. I hope now that the representative Pedersen has got it with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1411	The representative, Mr Breck, is concerned about the EU/EEA issue. Yes, that's probably one of the questions where I have little concern, whichever government we're going to get after the 2013 elections, I believe the National Assembly will follow the Christian People's Party's policy in this area. There is a clear yes to the EEA, and there is a no to the EU. A clear image is drawn – whether it is still a red-green rule or whether it is a new non-social government. So it's an area where a person can safely know what are the leaders of the Christian People's Party. This debate seemed to me to be a good one. What has been clear is that the government parties talk a lot about what they've done. Then they talk a lot about what the Progress Party might do, and little about what they want to do. I have experienced understanding of the strategic choices of the Christian People's Party, yes, actually from saying all the parties here. It is understood that the Christian People's Party cannot say yes to sitting in the stands and looking at four new red-green years. Then our alternative is to say yes to being a solution with a new non-socialist government, a new government that must strengthen the family and their freedom of choice, which must be committed to poverty both at home and abroad, which must give priority to the elderly, realize the guarantee of dignity and fight against the sorting society. The representative Dagfinn Højbråten commented on Kjersti Toppe's very good posts, where she among other things. said there's a big message coming. Now when I look at the Minister of Health – no, I'm sorry, I don't do that anymore – but when I look at the former Minister of Health, I'm going to say that this is a debate that the Christian People's Party is looking forward to. I think these are demanding and difficult issues, and we should have respect for different venues. But the very fact that we get a big message where we get everything presented, the Christian People's Party in itself seems to be very good, even though we do not share the conclusions of the Labour Party's big group, among others. has been published. I'll end with our vote. We are voting in favour of the proposal No. 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 from the left. When it comes to the proposals of the Progress Party, we have considered the proposals No. 3 and 4, but because the corresponding Statnett SF is included in those formulations, we do not want to support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1422	I agree with you that there has been a rather elusive debate. There's been a clear distinction between those who have talked about everything they don't want, and those who talk about everything they want. I believe that politics is about will. For the Left, it has been important to raise two aspects in this debate. One aspect is that, as a nation, we need to invest in the forward-looking grips in order to be ready for a Europe that will once rise from the economic crisis it is today. That's why it's important to focus on new technology, research and knowledge, because that's what we're going to live on in the future. The second aspect is to define how to develop our welfare state, and define the new solidarity towards a very conservative government that is trying to hold on to all the structures that are today. Designing the welfare state in new ways, developing it and looking at how to help those outside in new ways will be important challenges. The person who is happy in the welfare state must be involved in reforming it. Anyone who is not happy in the welfare state is just trying to keep it just as it is today. We must fight against the construction of bureaucracy, we must also fight against the understanding of reality in systems that are not linked to the reality that is felt on the basic plane, which I tried to say on my question to the Prime Minister today. That's what we were busy telling. So we've heard all the people who've been busy telling us that we really mean something else. Then to a brief vote: we are voting in favour of all our proposals. We are very happy to see that when the Left makes proposals, we get quite a lot of support in this room. I'm glad. But I also notice that over the last seven years, we have promoted thousands of proposals, and we have never ever experienced any support from the government for these proposals. It gets a lot of consequences when we're going to evaluate who we're going to work with. That's why we've taken the conclusions we've made. We shall then also vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We think we've come to a point where we should actually look at one of the major parts of our welfare state, namely our hospital sector. If you don't take a look at big organizations, we don't get to do anything about that sector either. One has to go into the sector and see if everything is good enough. That we should keep everything as it is, I think at least is a betrayal of all those who are working today to have a good health sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1435	Torgeir Micaelsen has spoken twice in the past and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1438	First I must be allowed to say that it seems to be Trine Skei Grande by day. I have to say that I am not sure that even if she had been able to take advantage of all these suggestions she has made, she would nevertheless appreciate voting with the Labour Party or working with the Workers' Party and Jens Stoltenberg. My brief comment after a good debate is that I record that the Right Leader and Prime Minister's candidate for the Right did not comment that my figures were wrong. Then we can assume that right-hand tax cuts would mean using about 25 pst. at least of the room for action of the government of the day. If you cooperate with the Progress Party and Siv Jensen, the action room can almost be eaten by the same tax cuts. It's all right, with that we can have a serious and proper debate where the classic elements of Norwegian policy still apply, and there's a connection between how much you're willing to finance, and how much you get left. If you don't start with such very special stories that lower taxes give you more income. There are a number of countries that have tried it without any particular luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1447	I have understood very well what the Right proposes as a new abortion policy, and I also understand that it is very unpleasant to the Right. When the condition of the foetus is no longer to be an independent criterion for granting abortion after 12 weeks, it really means removing that criterion. § 2(c) of the abortion law is about the state of the foetus, and in the Right's proposal it is that in order for § 2(c) to enter into force, one of the other criteria must be based first. It is about the physical or mental health of the woman that the pregnant woman must be mentally retarded, or that it is a source of rape or incest. This is a strong intensification of abortion legislation. If this hadn't been a tightening or a change compared to today's practice – why in every day would you suggest it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1456	I could not avoid noticing the attack of the representative Lars Peder Breck a little while ago. The funny thing about this matter is that it is not primarily the Right who stands in the way of protectionism. It was Jonas Gahr Støre – when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs – who stood up against protectionism. Last 15 December, the WTO was gathered at the Geneva ministerial meeting. There was a bulwark from the conference in which a promise was made to combat all forms of protectionism in the difficult economic situation of the world and, in particular, Europe is at present. A commitment was made to refrain from new barriers to trade in goods and services. It was December 2011. Then we come to this year's budget, and it has already leaked out that new trade and customs barriers are coming on important agricultural products from countries in our close neighbourhood in Europe, which are now no longer going to be exportable to us without high customs duties being imposed on it. That's when we in the Right ask: where is solidarity in that? Where is the solidarity that we – as the government sails, in the throne, describe as a country with low unemployment and stable economic development – should prevent farmers or other workers ashore in our vicinity from selling their products to us? On the other hand, we expect full duty-free market access for some of our products, which are important to us. Unless otherwise, it sends a very bad signal to our closest neighbours and trading partners that we are not ready to contribute with the solidarity that should have been a matter of course for a rich country like Norway, in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1467	The representative of Torgeir Mikalsen is concerned with numbers, and that's good for a financier. But I have two comments on Micaelsen's posts. The first is that tax reductions must, of course – like expenditure increases – be adapted to the size of the economy. That's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Item No 2: We have an economic policy that means that we want to stimulate economic growth, and that's why we're lowering taxes, which can help people get a little bit more left if they work a little bit more, and that makes it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. Together with investment in knowledge and infrastructure, this will contribute to economic growth and economic growth will make room for both well-being and investment. In our time in government, taxes and health cows went down. Under the red-green government, taxes and health cows have risen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1476	I record that someone thinks we have very high tax proposals, and some people think we have puzzled tax proposals. I believe the truth is that we have exactly the right tax proposals – just fit in the sense that they should have a meaning in terms of their impact in the economy, by making our tax base more robust, making the welfare of the future more robust, because they will ensure that both the labour market and the business world will work better in the years to come. Usually the government boasts how much money they have spent in all areas, but here one tries to say that the action space has been incredibly small. The truth is, according to the numbers we have, that after the price rise has been removed, 257 billion is used. kr more on the State budget. Then you can have a slightly pessimistic or fatalistic attitude that all expenses must increase as much as they have done before. I think, for example, that if we had implemented our policies to increase the number of people with disabilities in the workplace, we would have had less social security payments as a consequence. If we had made sure that more immigrants were better integrated with our integration measures, we would have received both greater tax revenue and less expenditure related to this. That would also give us a better basis. The main reason why I drew myself on the list of speakers was Helga Pedersen's question: why would you remove eugenic indications as an independent basis in the abortion law? What does that mean? Firstly, that means that eugenic indications, along with the other conditions, will be a basis for abortion. What the parliamentary head of the Workers' Party was competently unable to quote is Section 2(b), which states that abortion is permitted after 12 weeks if «the pregnancy, birth or care of the child can put the woman in a difficult situation of life.» Clearly, if you have a severely disabled child, it will be a significant indication that there will be a difficult situation in life. But the reason why I think we should remove it – and the right has meant this since the 1990s, when we had a good debate on this related to our principal programme, so this is nothing new – can be illustrated by an example: Some of those present here – not everyone who has been here for as long as I – remembers Environment Minister Guro Fjlangenger in the central government. She was an up-and-coming minister of a Norwegian government that has spinal cord fractures — a eugenic indication that provides abortion grounds in Norway. Clearly, for disabled people, they are the basis for abortion. It makes sense for children and adolescents with Down syndrome to know that they are an independent basis for abortion. It's a signal I don't think Norwegian society should give to people with disabilities. We're going to take care of the women, and we're going to take care of the family, but we're not going to tell people who can live a good and rich life in our society that you're actually an abortion basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1493	I'm going to promise that I won't go this far, after a long debate. I was in government when Jonas Gahr Støre signed the WTO declaration. I agreed with the statement, and the point of that was that they had written a statement that protectionist measures should not be extended beyond existing agreements that the different countries have. That was the starting point for the declaration. What we've said is that we're going to take advantage of the space for action in existing contract work. We are going to take advantage of the scope of action of the existing WTO agreement and, of course, we are going to take advantage of the scope of action of other agreements. That's what we're talking about, and that's what the right does not want. If the signal is that the Right's demand for solidarity with the EU is to be paid by Norwegian districts and Norwegian food production, it is a good signal to Norwegian districts and to Norwegian voters around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1502	Now, quite at the bottom of the debate, we've had an amazing opportunity for an abortion debate. I have to say that I think it's quite eye-catching, when we're standing here in 2012, that there's a right that we're experiencing to be challenged. My generation grew up with that abortion and the struggle for self-determined abortion was a theme in the history books. This belonged to the 1970s, this was the freedom struggle of our mothers – and here we are again. On the right, it seems very provoked that this is taken up by the pulpit, that the Labour Party's parliamentary leader chooses to spend time on this in the debate on the throne. But I believe that the round we have had now has been very clarifying. For the Right has been incredibly elusive throughout all these weeks when we've asked questions about what this actually means. We have claimed that Section 2(c) should not be removed as an independent criterion, but that is exactly what the Right does. That's exactly what it means when the Right writes that one of the other paragraphs has to come into force in order for the foetus's own health to be responsible for abortion. This means that unless you can have abortions on the basis of social conditions, that you have been incested, that you have been raped, that you have mental problems, you cannot have abortions, for example. has severe spinal cord, which was the example that Erna Solberg himself used. The result of this is that if you come as a woman to the subject of abortion and apply for abortion with a background to the health of the foetus and cannot show that you, for example, are have mental problems, so the answer is no. It is impossible to read the Right proposal in any other way. It is possible that this type of treatment will cause mental problems for the woman. Maybe it's the way Right-wing reasoning -- that it gives rise to abortion, but in that case it's quite spectacular. I think there's reason to repeat the representative Helga Pedersen's question: why are you doing this? That must be because you want to change practice, because you want to grant fewer abortions on that basis. I believe that it is alarming and that it deserves debate. And if there's one thing Norwegian women need to know, then it's that the Workers' Party will never reverse their rights when it comes to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1509	I have just answered why we believe that it is right to do so. We believe that for the weakest in our society, it's very unfortunate -- it's actually very stressful -- to know that in our society they're considered an independent abortion basis. It goes for us on human dignity. But then Marianne Marthinsen did what Helga Pedersen did. She only took on the basis of § 2 (a) of the abortion law and not in § 2 (b) which states that abortion can be permitted after 12 weeks if: ‘... the pregnancy, birth or care of the child may put the woman in a difficult situation of life’. It has nothing to do with mental distress. It actually has to do with the overall life situation of a family. Of course, a seriously injured child can be a burden on a life situation. It's demanding, but at least we leave labels on the weakest in our society as a legitimate reason for them to be aborted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1522	I have to be very brief. What the right is proposing is a tightening of abortion legislation. It's raised above any doubt. Only the round we've had here shows what ambiguity is created, and the right one is to remove the only objective criterion that is about the state of the foetus, and that more subjective assessments of abortions are to be based. So there are very good reasons why this has created debate, concerns and strong reactions also in the Stortingssalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1527	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1533	Then we go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1541	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 5-14, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a case for the phase-in of five-year master's degree-based primary school teacher training.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1568	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce a national minimum social assistance standard based on the State Institute for Consumer Research.» [[SIFO]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1583	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the double-track railway to Skien, Halden and Lillehammer to be completed by 2025 in the proposal for a new National Transport Plan presented to the Stortinget in spring 2013.’ [[InterCity-trianglet]] The Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1600	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6-8, 10, 12 and 13 on behalf of the Left. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1605	No, the Group of the Party of European Socialists does not support proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1610	That is when proposals Nos 1 and 2 are voted on. 6 to 8, 10 and 12. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a timing of the target of 3 per cent of GDP for research and for a binding annual escalation plan on how to achieve the research objective by 2020’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case to strengthen the social rights of self-employed persons.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set the objective of reducing costs resulting from state rules and form fields by at least 25 per cent by 2015 and of promoting a plan for achieving the target.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of municipal child protection, inter alia, by redeploying funds from state regional child protection and increasing the quality of child protection training.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case on tax deductions for environmental measures in private dwellings according to the model of Sweden.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1650	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate labour immigration to Norway through simpler rules, better procedures and faster procedures.’ The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1668	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the implementation of the Data Storage Directive.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1686	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 3 and 4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a ban on specific spaces for organised religious activity in public schools.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case on the organisation of new national road investments in a new state enterprise Riksvei SF, equivalent to Statnett SF.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for the organisation of new railway investments in a new State undertaking Railway SF, equivalent to Statnett SF.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1713	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an independent Commission to be set up to review the health and care sector. The Commission shall aim at providing a comprehensive and realistic picture of the current health system in terms of both resource situation, organisation, medical equipment, building mass and ICT systems. The Commission shall evaluate the Norwegian health system from the outside but shall also consist of persons with patient, clinical and management experience.’;» The right and left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1732	The President will then propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 157th Great by its opening and notification of the state and government of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-05.ana.ud2125e1824	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
