ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e26	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e38	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, Kristin Halvorsen and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Torgeir Tjäldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e45	I want to ask questions to the Minister for Fisheries. In this year’s budget, the government has put forward a proposal to significantly increase customs duties on cheese and meat. For example, there is an increase in the number of young people in the labour market. The cheese to 277 pst., you increase the customs duty on lamb to 429 pst., and you increase the customs duty on beef to 344 pst. This is a policy The Progress Party is strongly opposed and we want to change. Not only does this mean that consumers get much more expensive food out and poorer selections, but we have also seen that we have had major reactions from European countries, which go out and say that criminal tariffs and criminal responses and sanctions against Norwegian exports are being assessed because of the policy pursued. Fisheries policy, as the Minister knows, is incredibly important for the nation of Norway. Today we export 38 million meals of fish food out of the country every day – an industry that actually sells for 53 billion. kr every year. It's very big, and it's actually the second largest export we're doing outside the oil business. And the EU is also, in fact, the largest and most important market for us, which means that these threats of sanctions are dangerous to the nation and among others. for the fishermen in the districts and everything. So my question to the Council of State is simple: can the Council of State guarantee that the Norwegian fishing industry will not be harmed if the EU introduces increased customs duties on maritime food because of what the government is now going to introduce – so that the increase in customs duties by farmers is not allowed to go beyond the fishing industry? What does the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e56	The representative, Treldal, refers to what was presented in the State budget recently and indicates that the Progress Party is strongly opposed to it. What I can say is that the government is at least strong for us to have a strong, uphill agriculture throughout the country. So the issue of fisheries policy. What I agree with Mr Tåldal is that fisheries policy is very important, the fishing industry is very important. Therefore, what we work late and early to increase the market opportunities of Norwegian seafood ‘world wide’. I have to say that the industry and many others have contributed very well. The EU is, as was said, the main market for seafood, about 60 pst. Norwegian seafood from Norway enters the EU. But that actually means another thing – it is that the EU is also interdependent on Norwegian seafood. A large number of people in the EU are employed with a background in Norwegian seafood. So it's also like we have an EEA agreement that regulates a lot, it also regulates fish. There is a separate chapter dealing with trade in seafood, and Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement states that it is largely free trade or strongly reduced rates of duty. In addition, there are some sensitive species of fish, and these are the important species of fish for us, among others. salmon. It says the percentage of product on the seafood – e.g. The salmon fillet is 2 pst. customs duties – and therefore it cannot change the EU. They are obliged to do so and, of course, cannot change it overnight, it happens through negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e67	Governments refer a lot to salmon and such things, but some of the problems are whitefish. It is the white fish, of which we also export a lot to the EU, which is the problem. We're kind of exporting the salmon around the world. That is what the Council of State also knows, that up in North Norway, where she herself comes from, Northland – which is a great fishing ground – you have extremely large quantities of white fish in stock already today, which you have not sold. And it's clear, now we're going towards a new fishing season that's coming, and the boats are about to start coming into the port and going in with a new cargo, and then we're also dependent on selling out the cargo we have. Therefore, if you get a counter-reaction from the EU, as has been said, it will be extra hard for the districts in particular and for the industry. So my question to the Council of State is: what has the Council of State done to avoid – can she clarify more precisely what to do to avoid – that you get these sanctions? And what counter-reactions can be expected from European countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e74	Then I almost have to repeat some of what I said in my first answer, because this relationship is actually regulated in Protocol 9 of the EEA Agreement, unlike trade in agricultural products. It's listed, line by line, percentage by species. It may be like – call it a curiosity – but it also shows that the EU is pursuing policies. The fresh salmon fillet is 2 pst. Toll on, smoked salmon is there 13 pst. On. The government said 17 pst here, but the right number is 13 pst. Of course, they protect their industry – quite normally. In the case of cod, it is, to the most extent, a world product. There's a lot of cod going to Brazil, and not least to China. It's a desirable commodity for the industry around the world. So the representative is right that there is concern in some markets, but it has absolutely nothing to do with this matter. It's all because of other things that we're working on, of course. And maintaining the good "standing" of the seafood around the world, it can't be said that this customs has any meaning for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e86	There will be three follow-up questions – the first question is from Jon Georg Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e89	I register that the government does not respond to the actual challenge associated with white fish. It is such that the Fisherman’s leaves write that there is still ‘full of fish on the freezer’ and that exports go down. In such a situation, the government chooses to increase the risk of Norwegian criminal duties on the fish that we already have full freezer stores. That's a problem. Therefore, the question to the Council of State is very simple: Is the Council of State comfortable putting Norwegian jobs at risk in Norway's second largest export industry? Is she comfortable increasing the risk of job losses in the districts, in one of the most important district industries we have? And is it a good enough purpose to put these resources at risk – saving the centre party above the barrier limit by means of increased agricultural subsidies also to the next choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e94	I notice the use of the term 'criminal duty'. I would warn against using that kind of thing in this debate. What has been done with regard to customs duties on agricultural products is fully compatible with WTO legislation. It's important for me to stress, because there's a code that we, the exporting state of the sea, depend on, it's the WTO code. It obliges us, and of course it also obliges our trading partners. So that's what I want to warn you about here -- there's absolutely no need to talk about criminal tariffs in any context. Norwegian seafood can do a lot about it, but it's all because of other things. Of course, when reference is made to stocks of frozen fish around them, this is not due to the customs discussion we have in Norway today. It's due to market conditions that I take in the highest seriousness, and that we work very well with, along with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e101	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e104	I am surprised that the Minister for Fisheries is so carefree. It is in stark contrast to the leader of the Fiskerlag on Monday, where he said that he fears that the customs matter will shake the Norwegian fishing industry. One should not be very skilled in this area to see that measures aimed at shutting down European cheese and meat from the Norwegian market, or at least limiting access, can be met with countermeasures. In the debate on the NRK on 27 September, the leader of the Fiskerlag said that the Minister for Fisheries said: ‘She has fought a struggle in the government and lost’. [[...]] My question is: what was the position of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Minister of Fisheries on this matter when it was debated in the government? Is it true that the Minister for Fisheries fought and lost this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e117	The government has an offensive approach to access to the market for Norwegian seafood – let there be no doubt about it – and I believe that we have done relatively well. Last year, seafood was exported for 53 billion dollars. Norwegian kroner, which indicates that many people have done a good job. Of course, we should continue this work, both in terms of the EU and many other markets. We are in a situation – as it is described – that is demanding, simply because of financial turmoil around the world, and not least because consumers have less to do with food. When we relate it to the issue of ostetolls, I was of course involved in those discussions, but I just want to remind you – when it is said that these are measures to close cheeses out of Norway – that the duty-free quota on hard oysters is larger than the import of hard oysters today. So it's a wrong description of that measure. The measure is based on Norwegian agriculture, and it goes well with Norwegian seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e124	Line Henriette Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e127	I think that this debate seems to me to say that it is common for a country to have both offensive and defensive policies, or interests, in terms of trade policy. The fisheries and aquaculture industry has been an important industry in Norway for generations; it has had a major impact on our communities along the coast and on the well-being of the country – 35 billion exports. kr in 2011 – in addition to the fact that there is a support bar in very many communities. We're exporting to 140 countries. The Council of State told the representative, Tåldal, that she was working late and early with fisheries policy and the fishing industry. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State do to secure the already established international markets for the Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industry and also to provide new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e134	I fully agree with the description of Norwegian policy in this area. We have both an offensive and a defensive policy, and that is quite common – as I said, the European Union also has what I described as having 2 pst. customs duties on fresh salmon fillet, while it is 13 pst. When it's smoked, the Council of State said here 17 pst. But the right number is 13 pst. They are protecting their industry – we will continue to do so in this country, and that is necessary. Of course, in terms of ensuring good market access for Norwegian seafood, there are several areas of work. There I have a team of state councillors with: I have the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We are working towards the EU, of course, when we have renegotiations of the EEA Agreement to improve it. The last time was the shrimp that was given priority: we increased the duty-free quota on shrimp, which was then important. That's how we want to work all the time. Now the prime minister of Japan, and I'm going to be with him there, and I'm going to Brazil and Chile, which are also important seafood markets. We work around the world, but the most important thing is the industry's job in terms of product development and meeting the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e144	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e147	I would like to continue to ask the Council of State Berg-Hansen about the customs matter. She fails to answer the representative Jan Tore Sanner whether she is really concerned, along with the fishing industry. When Berg-Hansen was the director of the FHL – the regional association of the fisheries and aquaculture industry – not so many years ago, she felt that protection measures against salmon were purely protectionism. What is the big thing about this case is not the size of the ostetoll and how it works, but the signals sent to our trading partners in Europe. That's why reactions are coming, that's why the fishing industry is concerned, and that's why Reidar Nilsen speaks as strongly as he does. He is concerned on behalf of a fishing industry that – quite rightly, as the Council of State said in its last reply – has succeeded and that is offensive and all of this, it is easy to join. But the question here today and in this case is whether the Council shares the concern that – I get to say – her own industry now has. It has been rejected by the Minister of Agriculture, and the government to the extent, as unfounded concerns, and that it is almost something like the fishing industry — and right, it has been said — drawing up as scares. But for an industry that has to be concerned about its own business, which has to try to look into the future, this is a perfectly legitimate concern. My first question is: what does the Council of State, Berg-Hansen, say to the fishing industry, who brings these concerns to her? Does she also answer that concerns are groundless?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e156	The answer to the question of whether I am concerned is no, I am not concerned about this matter. I am not, simply because we have good legislation here. Firstly, we have WTO legislation that is very important to us as a maritime nation, but we also have an EEA agreement that regulates the issues of customs duties on maritime food into the EU. It is a commitment that also obliges the EU, so they cannot simply change that customs duty overnight. We are going to negotiate that, and the next round of negotiations for duty-free allowances is in 2013, for the period after April 2014. Then we get back to those customs questions. But I have to admit that I have other areas I'm much more concerned about, and that's what's happening outside the world related to the economic turmoil. That's why we're worried about, because we're addicted to some of those countries. I can mention Spain, Portugal and Italy, which is an important market for Norwegian seafood. There I don't think there's any customs on cheese they're worried about, it's more like having money to buy food. For so long it has been reasonably good, I have to say, but this is going up a discussion in Norway based on relatively small things compared to what at least I feel the EU is busy about. I just want to refer to an interview situation that Commissioner Damanaki had when she was visiting me in Norway. Concerned that the salmon price was low, she was asked if it could result in EU action. Then we talked about the dumping ghost, with which Norwegian salmon industry is known. Fisheries Commissioner Damanaki replied that, on the contrary, they wanted more quality seafood from Norway, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e163	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e166	Governments use the crisis in Europe as an example. But does she not see that it is precisely the one that not only wants to reduce purchasing power in Europe, but that they also consider Norway from its difficult situation to our good situation and wonder what in the world we are doing with? I also know the kiss in this, but this is not juss; this is politics; this is solidarity; this is how Norway behaves towards other states. And then I have to ask the Minister for Fisheries: there have to be talks at EU level. The Minister of Agriculture will also go down to discuss this matter at the beginning of November. Will the Council of State continue to sit still, or will she send good advice to the Minister of Agriculture to speak well about the Norwegian fishing industry and tell them that you are concerned, and then deal with the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e173	When a term such as continuing to sit still is used, I am absolutely not familiar with that description of my working day. But don't do that. What this is about here is that we are constantly going to have an active policy for Norwegian seafood domestically – in order to strengthen their competitiveness in this rather troubled world in which they live. But then, of course, it's also about products, about product development, and the industry also has to contribute to producing products that buyers are both interested in and willing to pay a little extra before. We depend on that in Norwegian seafood. I want to use absolutely all the opportunities I have — I am often in Brussels and have good contact with my colleague there — to help increase seafood consumption in the EU and, for that matter, in other areas of the world. We agree that this is an important job, and I will continue to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e180	There will be two follow-up questions – first Anne Karin Olli.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e184	When I hear the answers from the Minister for Fisheries, it almost sounds as if this is a cause of joy to the fishing industry. But last year we exported seafood for 53 billion. kr, and at the same time we imported agricultural products for about 30 billion. kr. As a net exporter of food, it is in Norway’s interest to have increased international trade in food. In an interview with the newspaper Nordlys on 16 April 2005 – before she had become Minister for Fisheries – the Council of State stated that ‘I am a member of free trade’. Has the Minister for Fisheries abandoned her principles when she joined the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e191	No, I am an absolute supporter of free trade and good market access for Norwegian seafood, but at the same time I live in a place where I see that without an up-and-coming agriculture, it becomes quite boisterous to be those who work in the seafood industry. We are interdependent around each other in the districts, and I am very much in favour of having a good, uphill agriculture in this country. So what we're talking about here is a few products. It's especially the cheese that's been a theme, but the duty-free quota is larger than what's being imported today. I believe that both consumers in Norway and not least those who want to sell their cheese to Norway are able to live well. I'm proud to be a member of a government that has an active agricultural policy, and I hope that the districts will continue to experience it. And I'm proud of the job we do in terms of Norwegian seafood – which is a great story – along with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e200	Torgeir Treldal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e203	I record that up to several questions have been asked to the Council of State, but she does not respond, and that is probably because she cannot answer. But I'll give her an opportunity. She says, among other things: There is no problem in obtaining restrictions from Europe where customs duties have been set today. Yes, those customs rates can change if you choose to do it that way. So the council says a thing that she's right in. She says the market is bad. Yes, the market is poor now, especially for white fish, but is it the right time to increase the risk of the market getting even worse — and blocking? That's what we're asking the Council of State, and that's what she's not answering. So I pray, with all due respect, that the Council of State will respond to this. So I would like to ask the Council of State if she is actually willing to risk large parts of the export – because this is the second largest export we have in Norway – because of small, insignificant rates of customs duties on beef and other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e212	It is difficult to debate when you are obviously on different planets, when you use words like ‘risking’ the export of Norwegian seafood. I do not understand how it is possible to use that kind of word in this debate, simply because what has been done is within the WTO legislation. We have WTO legislation – which this government has also been willing to use if necessary – and we have won. Yes, customs rates can be changed, but they cannot be changed unilaterally, it must happen in a dialogue with Norway and after negotiations with Norway, and then we have to sit and discuss. We have both increased duty-free allowances on shrimps and changed customs duties. It is clear that my goal, and the goal of the government, is to reduce the customs duties on sensitive products, because essentially it is free trade, and very low customs duties on fish entering the EU – and for that matter to other parts of the world. I don't know what else to say to explain the situation...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e221	It is also not possible to say anything much more, because the time has come. Then the Storting goes on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e226	I'm going to talk about human capital and not about fish or customs, so I want the Minister of Knowledge to answer my question. The teacher is our most important resource. I think we all remember the good teachers – and perhaps, unfortunately, the bad ones too – best when we think back on our own schooling. The quality in school I think depends on the quality we have of the teachers. I think everyone here in this room would say that our children deserve the best school with the world's best teachers, and then it's of course for us in the Christian People's Party that it's going to apply to the whole country. Getting up-to-date knowledge through good and ambitious continuing training schemes must be accessible to teachers throughout the country. In a summary from the Education Directorate of the reports on continuing education and training in 2012, it appears that geography is largely the determining factor for continuing education and training. «Geography constitutes a restriction affecting the completion of continuing education of the school owners», the report states. They relate it to travel time and travel expenses – that this represents such a large part of the cost that it is not used. They also say that ‘two–three times as much money as is available’. At the same time, we know that many district councils are perhaps the ones that have the greatest difficulty in getting access to good and qualified teachers. Most of the counties also indicate that ‘school owners are concerned that the means for implementing ‘post-graduate education in priority areas’ are reduced from 2011 to 2012.’ For the Christian People's Party, the school is the most important common arena in society, and then a few have to have the same opportunities throughout the country. So my question is, is it really going to be that it's geography that determines which of our students gets the best teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e237	I fully agree with Eriksen's representative that a good teacher is the key to a good school. It shows all educational research, and that's also why we have so much scope for continuing education. In the 2013 budget, we allocate funds to 1,850 new teachers, starting with continuing training. I have agreed with the KS and the teacher organisations on a distribution of costs, where the state takes 50 pst. the cost of continuing training of teachers. That's what I think is a very good deal, and it shows that we really take a greater responsibility for teachers than we do for any other profession, precisely because it's so important. In the context of the Youth Level Communication, we have a comprehensive training offer. During this school year, we're going to reach 3,600 teachers with extra reading, writing and billing training, to work more practically and differently, and to reach the most laboring students. This is an offer that has been very well received, and which we are now going to take further into our comprehensive school strategy. So in this area, we have full pressure. Then there's one challenge we have with the use of further education funds, and it's that there are over 150 municipalities that don't make use of this offer at all. When we look at the list of municipalities that use it or not, we see that this is very much related to political priorities. We have tried to make this further training offer so that it is decentralised. There are different arrangements around the country, and then it is quite right that there is a spice layer, where the municipalities also have to be involved and pay travel expenses. Of course, I should like to see whether we can distribute this better regionally, so that it is more easily accessible to district municipalities. But first of all, the challenge for municipalities is: Use the good agreement we have now reached in the field of continuing training!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e250	The report to the Directorate-General for Education may point more to geography than to political priorities — that is what is reported back. I fervently ask that if you want to invest in continuing training, you have to look at those districts that have high travel costs. Getting further training is about prioritisation and about where you want to bet the best and the biggest money. This government has decided that bet area No. one shall be several hours. We've discussed this many times. You can discuss whether you agree or disagree with this, but there is no doubt that if you make the large billions of investments in Norwegian school there, you get less priority for continuing education. Less money is given to combat high school drop-outs. You also get less money to renew high school. What is really the reason why the government believes there is a clearly greater need for more hours than putting the big money into e.g. continuing training, so that we get good qualified teachers throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e259	I totally disagree with the description of the priorities. If the representative Dagrun Eriksen looks at the proposals in the state budget for this year, she sees that it is used almost 0.5 billion. kr over the State budget for continuing education. It's very much in demand. The training scheme is very successful – a very good response. It does so in the case of the continuing training scheme as well. In addition, one does that in terms of the principal's training, where we're doing a lot of work. It is similar in the nursery sector. So there's a lot of commitment to competence. In this round there are no new hours at the nursery or youth level in the proposal. On the contrary, there is another interesting proposal that I expect is close to the heart of the Christian People's Party, namely the proposal to strengthen the teacher's density in youth in order to be able to work more differently and to improve the quality of the hours we have. I think that the Christian People's Party and the government have a little bit of each one to talk about in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e266	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Camilla Storøy Hermansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e270	I am one of the many teachers who have wanted further education, but have not received it. There are many different ways we can discuss and try to increase the number of teachers who get it. This could be done, for example, by: address an even better cost key, different models and more incentives. But at the end of the seventh, it's about raising your teacher's skills, giving our kids what they're up to, that's the best teachers in the world's best school. I'm not sure if the many different measures are ambitious enough to get the skills we really want for all teachers. My question to the Council of State is: should we not go even more ambitiously to work and introduce a right and a duty to regular continuing education for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e277	:I think it's an interesting proposal, but it's not part of what the Storting so far has decided, nor of the government platform for the current period. But it's one of the proposals that SV is discussing in connection with the next majorization period and our party program. It is of course because we are impatient after the municipalities use the offer we have for further training of teachers. When I go through the list of municipalities and how they use this offer, there are some very big differences between municipalities in terms of their ambitions. The representative has probably been a little unhappy with the municipality as to how it prioritises this. This is not sustainable in the long term. We've made a very good deal. Municipalities pay 25 pst. of continuing training. I see that the opposition – or at least the Right – believes that it should be 20 pst. Well, I don't think that's the big difference between how many municipalities participating. I think it's about seeing teachers' skills as crucial to the quality of school in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e286	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e289	Governments boast of what she calls a great commitment to continuing education for teachers. The truth is that there have been more teachers in school and that the number of teachers who receive continuing education has not increased. And there are probably more applicants for the offer than there are who get to participate in it. Sometimes it is not necessary to give so much more money. That could be the way to solve things, which means something. Today, some universities cooperate with municipalities on online continuing training for teachers. This means that far more teachers are being professionally replenished than is the government's commitment. This makes the students get engaged and more competent teachers when they come back to school. Will the Council of State facilitate the use of online education, which will allow far more teachers to take on- and on-the-job training, which they both want and need?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e298	We get good feedback on the arrangements we have for continuing training in priority areas. If the municipalities need to go beyond that, they are of course free. The background to our further training offer is that we want teachers to take either 30 or 60 credits in the field and increase their competence in priority subjects. I believe that we have also found good solutions on how it is now offered. We have now stepped up this offer, first from 1500. Then we went new rounds with the KS and the teacher's organisations and came up with a new breakdown of costs. Last year there were 1,850 teachers who received this offer, because the municipalities applied for it on their behalf. But there were twice as many teachers who wanted further education. So here it's about doing for the municipalities to put themselves in the harness and make sure that they prioritize this even higher in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e305	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e308	The teacher has Norway's most important profession. In the field of continuing training, the picture is that the government is focusing on fragmented measures, but lacks an overall strategy to ensure that all teachers in the country are satisfied with their need for continuing training. The Minister of Knowledge says the government is paying. But if you go through the budgets of this government joined eight years ago, you see that the truth is a completely different one. How will the Council explain that the main appropriations for continuing education and training have been in place since they were taken over in 2005? What signals does it send to teachers in the country as a professional group and, as the main skilled workers in the Norwegian society, to effectively deprioritise empowerment for this profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e315	There are, like, no limits to how to read a state budget with a bad mood as a starting point. This is not a description of the situation with regard to continuing training. [[Laughter]] This is a high priority in the draft state budget. This is a situation in which we have also made new rounds with KS and the teacher organisations in order to get the best possible model. In addition, we have made it so that it becomes visible to all how many teachers wanting further education, so that we know how long the queue is and how many teachers it is that do not receive further education because the municipalities do not forward these applications and are not willing to prioritize them. Of the over 150 municipalities that do not use this very good training offer now, about One-third right-hander. I would suggest that the representative Elisabeth Aspaker take a small phone call to a few chosen Right-Rapporteurs, so that they take advantage of the great offer we now have. In addition, there will be extensive follow-up training in the context of the New GIV and the secondary education initiative. So it's a huge boost for teachers, which in addition has led to a 50 pst increase in teacher training. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] from 2008. Not blackmal!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e326	That is the time for the Council of State to speak as well. The President will allow yet another follow-up question. It's from Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e331	There's no doubt that teachers will, or that teachers think it's great to be allowed. I've been at a cake party with a best friend who was so lucky to pick the teacher who actually got something like that. What's frustrating is that the rhetoric that the teacher is most important still is there, sail if you've given priority to other things. I think that's a very honest thing. There's been a prioritization of homework. Priority has been given to unskilled workers. You've been prioritizing several hours, which we know increases the pressure with more unskilled people entering school. Yesterday we experienced something very strange, namely that the government turned in relation to its own argument when it came to our proposal on the 9 000 unskilled in Norwegian school. Children learn from what we do, not from what we say. So why can't you admit that you've given priority to other things? This is not the government's priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e342	It is amazing how it is possible to present a government budget and the priorities made from 2005 onwards. We have had a systematic effort to raise the quality of teachers, to recruit more teachers from 2005 until now, and this has produced good results. We've changed teacher training. We've got an increase in the search for teacher training by 50 pst. That's great. We have continuing training with a new cost-sharing model between the state and the municipality and teachers that we see starting to work, but I am impatient that the municipalities, which are the employers of the teachers, will take advantage of that opportunity even more. In the context of the New GIV and the secondary school, we have extensive training courses aimed at teachers. We have principal training. So how in the world the Steps of the Left Skei Grande can make this look like you don't bet on the teachers, it's a miracle.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e350	Let's go to the next main question. It's the Minister of Knowledge who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the answer here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e355	That's absolutely right. Then I'm going to turn it over to the minister of research and higher education, who's standing here, who thinks there are so many people who are applying for the teacher's school, while you know that most people, or very many, end up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e360	No, that's enough!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e365	Therefore, there are many vacancies, and the study is among those that most end. But what I was going to say is that now the Council of State believes that it is the way those who read the budget are just in a bad mood. But now I'm going to quote some of the most competent heads in Norway who have read the same budget. The Swedish Research Association says that the government is presenting another weak budget for higher education and research: «The government is breaking the promise to strengthen research efforts». The Council of Universities and Higher Education states that the State budget neither ‘increases the strategic space for action nor makes a significant contribution to strengthening the key role of the UH sector in the development of knowledge Norway in the short or long term’. Ole Petter Ottersen, Vice-Chancellor at the University of Oslo, says that the main picture is that this ‘is not ambitious enough at a time when Norway, as a research nation, must run faster’. The research effort has been missed. It's the judgment that's standing over this government. Or let's take the students, who feel weakened because the government doesn't bet on the full-time student, nor have they fulfilled Soria Mora II, who said they should improve the student funding for students with children. Or take the NTNU principal who says, "The government is tricking with numbers." You give with one hand, but you take from the basics with the other. In sum, this is a slaughter of the government's budget in this area that I fully agree with. Then I wonder: is this just because you were in a bad mood when you read the document, or how in the world is it that the government council sees something different in the government budget than all the parties here in the sector, whether there are researchers, principals or students? This should be a quite competent bunch to read the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e386	First, I want to arrest Trine Skei Grande for one thing. You can't go around saying that most people who start school end up on the way. That's wrong. So until we get the response to the state budget in terms of higher education, research and the situation of students. I notice that the statements that have come from e.g. various rectors and research teams are more nuanced than the Trine Skei Grande refers to from here. But of course, it's her privilege to do that. It's a real growth in research at 2.2 pst. in this budget. This means that in the period from 2005 until now there has been a real growth in research of 32 pst. For next year's budget, this means that, for example: climate research is a priority. It's going to be researched on climate for 425 million. kr. At the same time, preparedness and security are a priority area. And there are extensive quotas for international cooperation in research. It's very important, because the international part of research is essential for us to be able to maintain good quality, and it's important that those involved in research also make use of the programmes we have within the EU, so that we get the most out of the 1.7 billion. to participate in the 7th EU research programme for the next period. As far as the students are concerned, I would like to say that we have doubled the number of student housing from 2005 until now. We've built 1,000 new student homes every year. That's 100 pst. meeting the requirements of the students in 2005 and 2009. It is not in our government statement to increase the student support in addition to the price adjustment that we have made, but as the previous government did not. I understand that the students are impatient when it comes to equal rights to equal education. But they know what kind of government statements they have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e399	Now I'm not going to quote the other thing that's had to say about the budget. I thought I'd try to quote from the budget. It says, among other things: a very nice table on page 212. It says it's: ‘an estimated increase in R & D effort of 758 million. kr. The increase is particularly linked to an increase in the quota for the EU Framework Programme for Research, i.e. the amount of money we send out, ‘and the continuation of studies that have been created in previous years’. Then you have a creative use where you like. All the EEA funds sent to other countries go through, and some of them have been calculated that some of the money may go to research in other countries, thus increasing research efforts. There's an incredible creativity in trying to get this up to 1.4 billion. kr, by which the government boasts in this document. It is not money that goes to research in Norway. It has been calculated that some of the health funds might go to research, so then we can put some of the health funds that we also have into research. This is creative. Is it, in fact, that the Council of State still believes that this is a commitment to research?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e411	Now I have to say that I am very little surprised by the representative Trine Skei Grande, because that is the way we calculate the research appropriations in the state budget. It's nothing special. It is right that health businesses carry out research to a significant extent — an important, significant, even internationally recognised, eaten research. Of course, research is part of our budget. It is absolutely right that the EU quota is part of research. It's vital. A lot of research environments are very concerned about how they're going to be able to follow this up, because there's so much to pick up, both in terms of money, and also in research development. Yes, it is quite right that some of the increases in places of study also trigger research. That's how we calculate research's share of the state budget. That's how it's been done for as long as I know -- and it's starting to be a few years, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e420	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e423	I have a small calculation for the Minister of Knowledge, and I would like her to respond as concretely as possible. On the Ministry of Knowledge's website and now here today, the Council of State boasts that the appropriations for research and development in the State budget have a real growth rate of 32pst. from 2005 until today, as she also said in previous articles. At the same time, the former Minister of Finance probably knows that the State budget as a whole has increased by 60 pst. during the same period. Therefore, it could be good to know whether the Minister of Knowledge believes that the growth in funding for research and education is greater or less than the growth of the state budget from 2005 to the present day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e428	It hasn't been 60 pst. Real growth in the state budget since 2005, so now Borghild Tenden compares two different sizes. Let me do another size. Under the civil government from 2001 to 2005, the research share of the state budget was 3.4 pst. average — one year below. In 2013, the research share of the state budget will be 3.7 pst. So there's no reason to blackpaint or compare different. There has been a real growth in research at 32 pst. It's a real growth from this year to next year at 2.2 pst. Of course, everyone who is involved in research and higher education would like to have the entire state budget. I'd like that, too. I think – no, I can come back to that. But this is a solid budget for higher education and research. It allows for important and significant research priorities. In this budget, it is allocated to 23 000 places of study, if we look at the impact until 2017. It's mostly in decades. That's a good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e435	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e439	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. Nutritional research is, of course, the great loser in this budget. However, the Ministry of Fisheries's budget proposal says that 1 DKK of reduced tax via the TaxFUNN scheme administered by the Research Council gives 75 dollars for research purchases in the marine research institutes, plus approx. the same amount of research and development in companies, i.e. SEK 1.50 in research and development effort per capita in tax cuts. Does this not show that the chairman of the financial committee, Torgeir Micaelsen, is wrong when he says that all tax cuts are unsolidaristic and give less of what we want more of, and that on the contrary, some tax cuts give more of what we want more of, and could benefit from being strengthened in the state budget, if we really thought it necessary to strengthen research efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e446	The President then gives the floor to the Council of State, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, in this research debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e449	Thank you, President. I wonder if we should have another Council of State here, the Minister of Finance, because it is essentially he who governs with taxes. But I can take a general discussion of tax-related challenges and investment in research. It is quite obvious that the different types of taxation have different meanings and that their effect is different. I would rather answer a little more about the research challenges that this sector is facing. As in all sectors, it is a challenge that the private share is low. I would like to see it higher. It may well be that there is tax-motivated research — we have the TaxFUNN scheme, which is used by quite a number of companies. But otherwise, when it comes to the establishment of taxes in relation to research, the Minister of Finance gets the answer from the appropriate Council of State. But we have some incentives to increase research efforts also in the seafood sector. We can come back to that when we are going to debate the budget in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e458	Henning Warloe – for follow-up questions. The President assumes that we should return to the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e463	Yes, President, my question goes to the Minister of Knowledge, who is also the Minister of Research. Of course, for those of us who are concerned about research policy, it is the most exciting thing to discuss. I'm going to admit that for me, there has been more research than research in the last six months. [[Laughter]] It might be a contribution to putting us in a better mood, to say something funny. I have to say that I understand that the Minister of Knowledge is concerned that you have to have a good mood when reading the budget, because it is quick to get into a different mood. Many actors in the field of research do when reading this budget. I have to admit that I dove a little, because in the 2013 budget, it's actually a real growth. It's been a while since we've seen it. Last year it was zero. The year before that again, it was zero, and this year, it's 2.2 pst. The Council of State sees it so that this bet, this increase of 2.2 pst. in three years, is sufficient to strengthen Norway’s competitiveness in the field of knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e472	It's a real growth of 32 pst. since 2005. This means that publicly funded research has gone up from 0.8 pst. of GDP to 0.92 pst. GDP. So this is going in the right direction. The objective, as we all know, is that the public share of research should be 1 pst. GDP. We have a significant challenge in the field of nutrition research, i.e. the research in Norwegian business. It could be due to some extent to our business structure. But it is quite obvious that we have a very great need to get up, really in all areas of society, a recognition of the need we constantly have to be ahead of knowledge development. I think we have a good research budget. I mean that we have a good growth and that it goes the right way. But in this area we have to look around the world and see that many are in the mound, and that we have to be on the mound as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e477	Dagrun Eriksen - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e480	Getting an undertaking to ask questions made me happy, to talk about mood. I think some reason why we're quite frustrated in this case is that we get so many feedback that competent researchers spend so much time writing applications for applications, looking for funds to realize their research, to realize the things that can actually help bring this country forward. They are in a bad mood that these means are too few and too scarce in relation to what they could have delivered. Then it doesn't help us – whether it's called creative computations or not – 35 pst. real growth. Likewise, frustrated researchers spend a lot of time just writing applications. Then is my challenge to the Council of State: how are we going to be able to realize more of this instead of this just becoming a discussion about real growth or not, and whether one has been better than the other? Because that doesn't help us forward as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e487	The problems that Dagrun Eriksen is facing are some of the things that are going to be discussed in connection with the research that Stortinget will get in the spring. There are very important issues related to how we ensure good research environments in Norway, and how we ensure a certain long-term perspective in research tasks and policies. It's important to be good. Many people spend a lot of time writing applications. So I just want to add finally in this debate that this is also about what kind of priorities you are doing in relation to the big money in the future. I think it's interesting to follow the debate in the Christian People's Party on which way to lean in Norwegian politics. Now the Right Party and the Advance Party are running and discussing how much tax breaks they're going to have for the next period. It's going to be a place between 25 billion. kr and 100 brd. kr. It's going to eat up a lot of the action space that Norwegian research, among other things. needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e494	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e497	The red-green government now has its seat of power for seven years. What's interesting to notice in that context is that in those areas where the government has no policy, no focus, it's going pretty well. But in the areas that the government claims are important to them, where they want to have a focus, and where they have a policy, things are going pretty bad. Housing policy is an area where the government party claims to be important to them – a bet area. That's where it's going pretty bad. We do not have land there, we do not have housing. There is also a galloping price increase, which causes many young people to have problems getting into the housing market. What, then, is the government's housing policy? There the government has shown great creativity when it comes to calling for new bans, laws and regulations, which make housing harder and harder to build. The Law on Planning and Construction has been strengthened. This means that it takes a very long time to regulate. One today has 22 state agencies, which are responsible for preventing housing construction. One has no governmental authority to promote housing. When it comes to the design of the dwellings, the government is out with centralized detailed regulations that set requirements for the dwellings, both how the windows should be and how the density of the house should be. Now it shall also be forbidden with valves in the dwellings, and one shall also pressurise the dwellings. So this isn't working. My question to the municipal minister is: wouldn't it have been time to try a little simplification instead of going wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e511	That government prioritised the first years of government, was to repatriate the social housing policy, which lay down, and also to give those at the bottom of the table an opportunity to have a safe housing. Since 2006, we have had a strong population growth, and we have also had a financial crisis, which led to a decline in housing construction in 2009. Now she is about to get up again until the level she was before. It should help to strengthen, through the measures provided by the government. It is the municipalities that are responsible for facilitating the planar and the plot area and ensuring that we are able to speed up the building locally. The government takes responsibility for walking through planning processes. I do that together with the Minister for the Environment when it comes to the follow-up to the construction message, which Stortinget received in our course. We're looking at the counterinstitution, whether we can coordinate and simplify it there. I have had a large collection of workshops that include: different parts of the industry were involved – and received many good input into simplification measures. We also presented simplification measures in the Building Communication. We aim to reduce the size of construction projects in municipalities by nearly 30 p.m., which will allow municipalities to prioritise the more complex issues. Today I will have a meeting with the construction industry for, among others. to discuss what is the reason for the increase in costs, to get a common reunited platform to discuss further on – and not shadow boxing through the media. I am very happy that someone is very strong – and hopefully also very strong – from the industry at that meeting. So we're working on a lot of fields to get the pace of building, so we're going to have housing in the future with high quality and good access for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e524	I find that the municipal minister again owes it to the municipalities. It does not take into account that this detail and creativity from the government to seek out new detailed rules, makes it built for few dwellings, and also makes the dwellings that are being built too expensive. One also refers to the construction message. There is a lot of talk, but there is no concrete measure at all to simplify it. That's what I'm asking for. One has numbers that show that 94 pst. by the municipal plans will be met with notice of countersigns. That's bad. Then my question is: does the government not see that the building and housing policy that has been pursued has made worse, and that if one had not interfered – and operate with such detailed management – would more and more spacious dwellings be built?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e533	One should not go back in time to see that this discussion has been completely different. Then, in the country's largest newspaper, VG, and in many other media, there was a strong attack on the government because one didn't take the huge amount of mistakes in housing construction. Between 12 and 15 B.C.E. kr a year was used to correct errors. It was too bad quality. Construction industry has also experienced a decline in productivity from 2000 which is striking compared to almost all other industries. I'm now going along with the industry with a new program, Build21, where we're going to raise productivity and efficiency in the industry. It has great significance for the number of dwellings that are built – and for the price. We'll look at the plot prices and the development of them, what it means for the housing market, and we'll simplify it. We do this both by following up on the measures we put forward in the Building Communication – which was not just diffuse, they were concrete – and we work well with the Minister for the Environment to look at the plan piece. Because there is no doubt that this is where the key might be when it comes to getting matters through faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e540	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e543	I hear what the council says. What the Council of State says is that one should look at things. I had expected that the Council of State could intervene and sympathize that something had been done. Once again, I'm going to say that a lack of action to do something about what one necessarily must have seen doesn't work, when one has a seat of power for seven years. I also hear that the Council of State says it is important to help them at the bottom of the table. What we're recording is that especially young people are in the situation that they almost don't have the opportunity to enter the housing market but they have parents who have enough money to help them get a living. I want to right with the Council of State: what will the Council of State do now to get something done about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e552	The most important thing we do for young people and others is to speed up housing in Norway, especially in the press areas. In many districts there is also a large shortage of housing, but this is particularly true of the largest cities. We work well with the cities about that. We have to be able to point out that the plan work and putting plots at the disposal are not about finding guilty. It's about who's responsible, and the municipalities want to have that responsibility. Now, what we're doing is we're going to go through all of the procedures that can simplify. In the construction message, there are some simplifications. There are simplifications going to be no need to search on a given size addition. It's important. For every thing we can take away from the municipal building management, the faster we get the big, heavy construction projects up and down. It's what's important, not least in cities, to get them up and down, the big construction projects that will give young people more choice. We also increase the starting-points of the House Bank, which can benefit not least young people and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e559	Michael Tetzschner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e562	It was with interest that I heard that the government meant to return to the social housing building. I think we have to make it clear that we have re-entered the need for social arrangements, or to remain in the Council of State's own image: more people have simply been asked to sit down at the bottom of the table. And very effective in this way is to increase the requirement of equity by 50 pst., from 10 pst. to 15 pst. of the value. The government, as the main concern was, has been very active in the purpose of lavishing the homes, and not so active in looking at what we can do to simplify and produce housing that dampens the price pressure. My question to the Council of State is: In view of the fact that the State has equipped itself with 22 agencies that can block housing projects in municipalities through objections, can she mention one single objection institution she wants to remove?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e571	I can't, because it's not below my range. It lies below the Minister for the Environment – with the plan – so I will not. But what I can say is that I've had a meeting and I'm going to have a meeting with the Minister for the Environment to coordinate and simplify the counterinstitution. I'm very busy with it. Not least we need to look at all the notifications of countersigns being entered to the local authorities, which will cause delays. The dialogue between the various governmental authorities and local authorities must be improved at a much earlier time, so that one can find out where the problem is – without telling us what to do about it – which delays construction processes a lot. That work is in full swing, and we will of course come back to that. I like that, and I really hope that we get good results in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e578	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e581	With regard to objections and challenges, it is a recurring issue. It is important to bear in mind that objections largely stem from what we adopt politically. That's why it's also a challenge for us all to show how to balance different good considerations. That is precisely what the policy is all about. My question is related to the actual development of the housing market, where we now see very clearly that it is building up a class division. Young people and immigrants, among others, are two very vulnerable groups where many fall outside the development of the housing market. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that the measures she has so far pointed to are sufficient to balance the enormous gap we see between the need for new dwellings and the pace of construction today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e589	What we've seen so far in 2012 is that it's been starting to build more dwellings than what was planned when we started this year. I'm very happy about that. As the Minister of Knowledge said earlier, we have double the investment in student housing. It's also important, because they compete in the same market, especially in the larger cities, about the smaller apartments that even young people want to buy. We have not least seen a strong growth in start-up loans and mortgages in the Husbank's tool, which means that one can get big projects together with developers and municipalities, but also start-up loans to young people and others who are what I would call weaker groups, even if I don't want to call them the weakest groups on the housing market. There are others at the bottom of the table than young people and immigrant groups, because they usually have a job and the ability to build up a start-up capital. We closely follow up on this, and it is our job to assess whether we should strengthen them further. But in next year's budget, we have strengthened the House Bank by 5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e596	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e608	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question No 2, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, representative of the Minister for Health and Health, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question No 4, by Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Transport, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 8, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be taken up by the representative Lars Joakim Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e625	Then I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In March 2012, the Stortinget debated a proposal from the Right on major municipal authorities on motor travel issues in the outland. An overall opposition, as well as the Labour Party and the Centre Party, was clear in the debate that such a change is correct and necessary. Government partners were clear that this would be followed up during the current ageing period. Where is this case today, and can the Council of State confirm that the government will promote a case in order to transfer greater authority in questions of motorised travel to the municipalities?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e639	When the representative calls for greater authority for the municipalities in the question of motorised travel in the outland, I assume that there are questions about so-called recreation, because that was the topic of that debate. As the representative refers to, the issue of increased municipal authority on motorcycling was debated in Stortinget at the end of March this year during the consideration of a right-wing proposal, Document 8:40 S for 2011–2012. My predecessor, Erik Solheim, said in the debate that the government will look at possibilities to meet the municipalities by giving them greater authority to decide whether they will open up the creation of a scooter loop for recreational purposes. I have previously confirmed that I want to look at the same question, in line with what the councillor, Solheim said. I'm also aware that many people want it to be clarified. If the government is to present a proposal that gives greater local authority, we must be sure that it can be implemented without, at the same time – and not in the long term – being at risk of potentially significant consequences for outdoor life and natural disasters. We are therefore now working on collecting knowledge and conducting thorough assessments of possible solutions. The evaluations will be important as to whether the government will send a proposal for changes to the hearing. I can't promise anything now about when that question will be settled, but we're working on it and won't let it go too long, and we'll address the question in the current accumulation period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e648	I record that the Council of State's articles stress that we are still at the same place – now information is to be obtained, now a basis is to be provided. So it's been quite many years since there were test municipalities on this, test municipalities that all reported that this was a good solution. There have been several rounds of this in the years to come, and all the debates here in Stortinget have been clear that we need to do something about this. So once again what's the answer, that now we're going to get the basis, now we're going to make sure that this goes well. Does this mean that the Council of State has not intended to use the experience of the experimental municipalities as a basis, but is required to obtain a new basis for dealing with this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e655	What I said in my answer was that we are working on the question and assessing it, in line with the former State Council, Solheim said in the debate, and in line with what I have answered here in Stortinget earlier. To that we acquire knowledge and look at different aspects of the matter. Part of that assessment is the experience of the test municipalities. I've spoken to several of them myself. I have also been involved in the independent evaluation carried out by those trials, and it forms part of the basis on which the government is now basing its assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e660	It is good that the work is in progress and that the dialogue is in progress. In the March debate, at least the government partners of the Council were very clear that this had to happen, and that it was going to happen now. Yes, even someone thought it should have come in the spring that was, but it was probably too short a time for that to happen. In that debate, the predecessors of the Council of State also invited a dialogue on how to get to this increased local self-government without destroying for what none of us wants it to ruin. So now we're in the middle of the budgetary procedure, and it's only half a year left in the big period. Is it the case that the Council of State will now invite dialogue on this, since it was such a solid majority in the main hall that it wanted to put this in place now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e669	Regardless of that, I thought that dialogue and input to that question were very wise, and I would like to welcome the views and assessments of the representative Harberg and others, not least the input into what he himself went into, namely how to prevent negative consequences for natural disasters, outdoors and other conditions if one is to open up to increased levels of local self-government. There may be some demanding conjugations that you have to do. Otherwise, I've read the debate that was in the big room in its entirety, so I have a good picture of what the different representatives from the different parties said and meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e687	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e694	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘By decision of the Stortinget in 2009, the University of Tromsø, UiT, has established a two-year master's degree in medical laboratory subjects in which forensics are among the central disciplines. However, the lack of operational resources from the state to the new DNA lab at UiT means that the training cannot provide students with a practical offer as foreseen. Will the State Council take initiatives to ensure the operation of the DNA lab in Tromsø and to meet the Storting's objective of strengthening the national research and teaching provision in the field of legal genetics?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e703	It is the University of Tromsø that determines the professional bets and priorities it will make within its financial framework, and the university itself determines which courses it will offer. It's about university autonomy. The university has chosen to establish a master's degree in medical laboratory subjects. In line with statutory academic freedom, the university itself determines the content of teaching and the content of research. In the case of the special appropriations for the Legal Genetics Centre at the University of Tromsø, these have been made available under the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. For questions of appropriations, I must therefore refer to the Minister of Justice and Defence. I also point out that in the last month the Minister of Justice and Defence has answered two questions in writing to the representative of the Grandfather Elisabeth Aspaker in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e714	I wonder at the defensive response of the Minister of Knowledge, because the fact is that when the Stortinget decided to establish this other legal genetic environment in Tromsø, this DNA lab, almost four years ago, it was simultaneously linked to a decision to establish the first legal genetic education in Norway. This is a type of education that professionals in Norway need to go abroad to get. It was then an important premise that these two things should follow each other. My question to the Council of State is: how does she intend to ensure that the decision of the Stortinge is actually followed up, so that the infrastructure needed by this training in Tromsø, which was the intention of the Stortinge, is actually followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e721	It is the Minister of Justice and Security that is the right address for this issue because this education is linked to the DNA lab that has previously been allocated under the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It is the University of Tromsø that has decided that they want to establish such master's education linked to this lab. So these are questions that the Minister of Justice and Security has to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e728	I wonder at the answer given by the Minister of Knowledge now, because this training in Tromsø has been established following a decision in Stortinget – i.e. on behalf of the national parliament of the country. So there is nothing the University of Tromsø has done with their own ingenuity – they have done it on behalf of Stortinget. The second question I ask is that the Council of State, as Minister of Knowledge, is not more concerned with ensuring that there is quality in this education offer once it has been established and once the Storting has adopted it. My question to the Council of State is: does she really feel no responsibility to follow up this decision? The second information I have received in the last answer from the Minister of Justice and Defence is that the financial responsibility has now been transferred to the Ministry of Health. So my question — one on quality — and the other on quality — is: Will the Council of State take initiatives towards Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre to ensure that the financial framework for the environment in Tromsø is put in place to ensure that the quality of education is achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e739	I am a little surprised that this question is addressed to the undersigned, because I am absolutely sure that the representative Aspaker, also because she has just addressed the Minister of Justice and Defence on these questions in the past, is aware of how this is linked. It's this DNA lab that's the starting point for this master's education to be developed in Tromsø. At the moment that the Ministry of Justice and Security has changed its policy in this area and, in addition, wants to transfer it to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, I must almost ask that the questions relating to this be addressed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e757	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e764	‘Møre and Romsdal have an active business and the county has significant exports of goods to Europe. Effective transport solutions are very important for the value creation of the county. Unfortunately, goods are being transported too much on an overloaded and worn-out behalf. What will the Council of State do to get more goods across from road to sea, and what will be done to improve the quality of the road network in More and Romesdal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e771	As stated in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, presented in 2009, the government’s freight transport strategy represents both a sectorial improvement, i.e. taking advantage of the different advantages of the different modes of transport, as well as own measures for the transport of transport by road to rail and sea and the organisation of combined transport. After all, the national transport plan represents a strong commitment to transport with an increase in appropriations of 45 pst. in relation to the previous NTP. The increased investment will greatly improve the conditions for both passenger and freight transport and is the main component of the government’s freight transport strategy. Through the 2013 government budget, presented on Monday, the financial framework for the first four-year period of NTP 2010–2019 has been followed up by the government. For More and Romesdal, this means that the implementation of major and important projects such as Kvivsvegen and Renndalen-Staurset on the E39 will be continued and implemented. In these days, the development of Tresfjordbrua and the Wagstrand tunnel on E136 also begins. Another theme that is also important for a state such as More and Romsdal is racial protection. The national transport plan also has a strong focus on racial protection measures, with a high share of both the national road network and the county road network being allocated to More and Romsdal. On the national road network, both the Hjartåberga on E39 and the Uppølsstranda on Riksvej 70, as well as the Wagstrandstunnel on E136, are on-run. On the county road network, there are now significant State grants for the racial protection of the county road 60 between Røhr and Hellesylt. I would also like to mention that through the administrative reform, the government has also strengthened the appropriations for the county road network by over 1 billion. kr per year. In addition, the interest compensation scheme has triggered a new activity in the counties for 2 billion. kr annually. Here, too, More and Romsdal are among the highest-granted states. All in all, this shows that this government is doing a great deal to solve the major challenges we face in the transport sector. I share the representative's opinion that there are important and major challenges both in the road sector and in the transport of goods from road to rail and sea. But this government is well-informed about the priorities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e784	I thank the Council of State for your answer. We are happy for every penny and every project within transportation. But despite the glaring words of the Council of State about the situation in Samferdsels-Noreg, I'm not quite happy. There's a huge maintenance run on the road network in More and Romesdal, actually 3.1 billion. and better infrastructure is one of the most important measures to improve conditions for industry and business. Does the Council of State think that the 2013 draft state budget, presented on Monday, provides the economic space for action necessary to re-establish the maintenance and better roads in More and Romesdal and the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e793	It is true that there is a large lag on the maintenance side of the road network. It's a aftermath that's built up over many, many years, and it's clear that it's not done on one government budget to take back all that lag behind. But I am of the opinion that this year's budget is a strong commitment both in terms of operation and maintenance, and also in terms of initial investments on our road network. That's how the government has prioritised that we're going to spend a total of 17.8 billion. kr for road purposes next year. That's an increase of 1.6 billion. kr in relation to last year. A large proportion of the funds are also used to maintain the existing road network. Such measures may not always receive as much attention as the new investments, but in the government’s view they are very important measures in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e800	Once again, I thank you for your answer. I want to focus a little bit on transport by sea again. Roads are being filled with freight, and this is increasing steadily. Every day, 500 trailers only roll on E136 from More and Romesdal, and we can put many more on the other roads. This creates a more dangerous and worn-out cause, and in addition, heavy transport is a significant source of climate change. In order to reduce both road risk, road wear and not least climate emissions, there is a need to move more of the goods from road to sea. There are several things that are decisive to move more goods from road to sea, and one of the challenges is the low-functioning and interconnected logistics node. The ports are municipal, the roads are either regional or national, and the railways are state-owned. My question is: will the Council of State take the initiative to step up interaction between the different levels to improve logistical nodes in Norway, and to better facilitate the movement of freight from road to sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e811	So, as I pointed out, transport of goods from road to sea is an important part of the current NTP from 2010 to 2019, but there is no doubt that there will also be a very important part of the work towards the next national transport plan to be submitted during the spring session. I can't pre-empt the outcome of the ongoing NTP work, but I can assure you that the question of getting a better relationship between the road network, the rail network and also the freight transport by sea is an important part of that work. Among other things, the government is concerned with questions about its own near-ship strategy, because we also see it as an important piece of realising more goods from road to sea. In the 2013 budget, we have proposed setting aside 25 million. kr for the follow-up to the short-ship strategy. There are also things that we're taking with us into the next national transport plan. So the representative is absolutely right that here there are many actors who need to cooperate as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e824	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In the light of the decision of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, in May 2011, the Stortinget unanimously adopted a proposal for an amendment to the Children’s Act on the obligation of parents to pay grants for eligible children moving out of the home. Since then, little has happened despite questions to the Council of State on 30 November 2011. Then it was announced that a good job was done in the department. When does the Government promote proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act as adopted by the Stortinget and when does the Council of State expect the amendments to be implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e833	Let me start by thanking the representative Kambe for the question. As announced in the context of the treatment of Documents 8:125 S for 2010–2011 in Stortinget on 31 May 2011, cf. also answers to written questions, No. 617 and No 617 718 for 2010–2011, the Ministry has launched a review of the rules for determining contributions after the age of 18 to assess the proper functioning of the applicable rules. The work is well under way, but the review has taken a little more time than originally assumed. The review is carried out on a broad basis and the scheme as a whole is subject to assessment. Themes and moments of central importance for the overall assessment are children’s own income and loan and grant schemes, including residents’ grants. These are evaluation themes also mentioned by the proposers in Document 825 S for 2010–2011. My preliminary assessment is that it is possible to modify this by regulation. It's e.g. to allow for the discretionary assessment of the amount of the contribution itself after 18 years. The discretionary judgement will include, inter alia: loans and scholarships received from the Loan Fund could be of importance. A proposal as outlined should be clarified in the regulation and must be sent to the general public before it can be adopted. Experience has shown that such a process takes some time, and it is therefore difficult for me to say exactly when any changes can be made, as the representative Arve Kambe asks, but it does not take a very long time if there are no major contradictions to such a procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e844	I thank you for your answer. I think it'll take a long time – it's only taken the department a half-life to make progress on the matter. It might illustrate the criticism of the opposition and the Right in particular about the government's inability to implement it, when it is a unanimous family and cultural committee that has asked for it – I will clarify my own question, because I wrote ‘adopted’, a unanimous magnification has not ‘adopted’, but has ‘requested’ – without the ministry having done anything but to think out loud. I'm recording that the department has also had other things to work with in the last year, so this probably hasn't been top priority. But for some of these families, it may be economically destructive to pay, preferably a few hundred thousand dollars — in the worst case — for legitimate children who voluntarily move out, when they have alternative offers. That's why it's okay: a regulation is faster than a change in law. So the question is, when does the Council expect this to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e853	I am pleased that the representative Mr Kambe has clarified his question, so that it is in line with what was actually happening in Stortinget, where the proposal was annexed to the Minutes. But it was nevertheless clear leads from a unanimous staging that time. It's also true, as the representative Kambe says, that this has taken a long time, and it's just as true that the department has had a lot to do in this period, so you haven't been sitting and twinning inch eights. I agree with the description that is given that this can of course be serious for individuals, but I am also concerned that we must ensure that children and young people in this country have the opportunity to complete their education. It's an important principle. From that point of view, I assume that we will soon be able to come back with further proceedings in the matter, and we will make sure to get that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e862	It's been two years since the Stortinget became interested in the matter and the department just got to the point, so I think that here's the lack of implementation, perhaps, at the political level when you don't ask for it in the department. It's one of my purposes. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the same department and the same Council of State for other initiatives that we have taken, including: in the case of cardboard. It is now cleared up in one case after another, via social security, but it goes in the right direction. It is quite obvious that the Council of State has listened to, for example: What I've said. I really appreciate that. It also greatly appreciates thousands of fathers and families. That's why it would have been okay for the department to have the same gear on this matter, because it involves many families and can potentially lead to a bad family policy, something that is a unanimous big deal, which says that this is not the intention of the legislator, not the desire. When a unanimous magnification has said that, it's a marshmallow to the government to change policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e869	Let me first thank you for the rose when it comes to cardboard. It is also an important area of government. We work with a lot of important areas in everyday life that sometimes take things longer than other things. But the point here is at least to give a clear feedback to the representative, Mr. Kambe, that we are going to have to do this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e878	‘The Council of Ministers in NOU 2012 proposes that the principle of development-promoting links be based on the work of child protection and on the assessment of the threshold of take-over of care. Connection requires stable relationships. Governments recognise that there is no overview of the number of child-restraint movements. Will the Council of State ensure that there is an overview of the scale of movements before the Storting will deal with important child protection considerations and the organisation of future child protection?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e885	Let me start again by thanking you for the question. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that during 2011, there were 2,700 child-restraint movements. Some of these movements are planned shifts from one measure to another; other movements are unintentional, such as when the child moves from a non-functioning foster home position. The municipality records the movement of all children in child protection with one or more new placement measures in the statistical year, if the new placement measure has led to the movement of the child. Some children move from home, while others move from shelter, foster home or institution. Of the children who moved, it was at the base of 81 pst. which moved only once during 2011. 417 children moved twice during 2011. Among these children, we find children who have first been moved to a shelter, then e.g. in foster homes, and children such as first moved to an emergency institution for investigation, then in a permanent location. So all the moves aren't accidental or unwanted. When a child is moved from his or her original home, it is often the case that the child lives in a shelter for a shorter period of time. It is important to spend a good amount of time in finding a suitable foster home that can help the child to have a stable stay. Good processing is important to reduce the risk of accidental movements. At other times, the child stays temporarily at an institution for investigation, and then is placed in an individually adapted action. In these cases, the movement takes place in a well-planned manner adapted to the needs of the child. I share the representative's concern about the moves that happen unintentionally, i.e. the unplanned moves. In order to gain more knowledge of the actual circumstances of movements of children in child protection, qualitative studies must be carried out. The unit for cognitive developmental psychology, EKUP, at the University of Oslo, is researching this field, with funding from the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs. Foster homes for children's needs are another Bufdir-supported three-year research project, carried out by the Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA, in cooperation with the Regional Knowledge Centre for Children and Young Western, RKBU West. One of the sub-projects concerns accidental movements from foster homes. The aim is to develop a comprehensive definition of accidental relocation, to identify scale and patterns and what can be done to reduce numbers, and to carry out a specific evaluation of the action of the Youth Families in Akershus. In addition, we are now making major changes in the reporting of municipalities to the SSB. But the extension of the data base is too late for them to be included in the basic material for the review of the organisation of child protection, which I will send to the Stortinget in spring 2013. We have a solid knowledge base to assert the importance of stable relationships in children's lives. We know that there are unintentional movements, and we also know that good child protection assessments, investigations and a differentiated and good response device can prevent accidental movements. That's why we're starting to systematize the knowledge of accidental displacement. We don't have exact numbers, but we have a good basis for taking other steps that can ensure children's connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e900	I thank you for the answer and hear what the council says, but I don't know if we have exactly the same reality. It gets the further discussion to show. First of all, we have to hold on to the fact that moving for a child, especially a vulnerable child who has suffered a care failure, is a tragedy. Whether it's a child-rescue investigation, whether it's planned from a shelter to a foster home, it's actually very exciting for a kid to have to experience it. So all the movement needs to be reduced to a minimum. The second is that the KS and the Foster Home Association are crystal clear that the figures given by the SSB are not correct – probably seriously underestimated. So the question is, will the Council of State ensure that we get a factual basis that will allow us to take a decision on this and assess it when the Stortinge will assess the whole of child protection in spring 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e909	Let me first just underline that from 2013 we make extensive changes in the reporting of municipalities to the SSB, which means that we get a better basis, among other things. to conduct longitudinal studies, i.e. long-term studies, to see how the children are doing. I also have to agree initially, that shifts can be very exciting for children, and basically they are. But it may also be good for children to be moved if the care base they have is so harmful to them that for example. may damage their development. That is why I am very much in favour of the proposals in the Raundalen Committee to introduce a new principle that is a developmental principle, in addition to the principles that are already in place, and that the children's need for connection and interaction is based more on. There is also a lot of exciting research in this material that just shows children's need for stability, good care, good frameworks around them, and at least not care frameworks that damage their function or health later in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e918	I would like to clarify my question in the following way: when the Raundalen Committee wants to introduce a new principle as a developmental link as a principle for the assessment of care takeover, it must be absolutely fundamental that if we as a society are to take responsibility for a young person, we must give them a connection. If not, there is a public care failure. I feel that the Council of State must take more seriously in its answer, because we are talking about movements within the field of child protection. That's what we're talking about. How can we assess the Raundalen Committee's principle of commitment as a threshold for taking care if we're going to deal with it without knowing whether the kids get access to child protection, because that's actually what we're talking about. So now it's six months to make these assessments, and then there should be plenty of time for the Council of State to at least get a better overview of how many times the average number of children move in child protection. Will the Council of State take care of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e925	I am somewhat surprised at the intensity here now, because I fully agree that there is a need to reduce the number of movements when there are accidental movements and unwanted movements. Moves that are desired may be if it is obvious that the child is not well off, if the child, for example, is not well off. should be investigated or if other types of conditions are found to be better for these children, but then it must be planned. Personally, I have been greatly affected by a master's project that has been presented to us recently, «Listen to me», which has been developed by Janne Berge. It's about how to, among other things, by listening to children and listening properly to children can contribute to more stable relationships and fewer movements. I think we should make sure that we listen more to the children. That is why we have also proposed several changes to the law. Then we also need to follow-up with practice and empowerment. The strengthening that we are now doing of municipal child protection and supervision will also help us to reduce the number of accidental movements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e936	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be raised by the representative Lars Joakim Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e939	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In the last 10 years, we have seen a significant decrease in the number of farms. Only in Hedmark has more than 2000 farms become dark since the millennium. This is done despite the need for substantial customs protection to protect the industry. Does the Council see that there are other instruments to reduce farm use?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e949	I think it is good that the representative, Mr Bredvold, and now the representative, Mr Hanssen, are concerned that farming is being laid down, also in our home country, Hedmark. But I have to say that it appears a bit like crocodile tears, since the representative Hanssen represents a party that would have provided a much stronger farm closure if their agricultural policy were implemented, and then, as a result of a brutal economic failure in agriculture, not because of increased productivity and technology progress, which is one of the main causes of the changes in use that we are seeing now. Sufficient income opportunities are essential for many to find it interesting to produce food and farm in what is known as high-cost Norway – the cold and steep of our country. The government therefore places great emphasis on improving income opportunities in agriculture. In that work, customs protection is a support bar. Norwegian farmers must have a price for their products that are proportionate to their costs. Without proper customs protection, we would not have it. The price income represents two thirds of the gross income of the farmers. It is true, as the representative suggests, that customs protection cannot be the only means of action, and in particular not in maintaining a varied structure of use and agriculture throughout the country. That is why we are also using several other instruments, in particular budget support is important. High price revenue comes in particular to the large volume producers in key areas, such as: around Mjösa where I live, for good. It is through other means that we implement rural and structural policies to exploit agricultural resources in valleys and mountain areas throughout the country, the Eastern Valley of our country. It is through the budget support that we provide additional grants for less use to compensate for the cost burdens they have. That's where we have the shipping arrangements that reduce geographical disadvantages, that's where we have the welfare arrangements that are essential for a viable farming day, and that's where we have funds for new business development for increased value creation and more bones to stand on Norwegian farms. Budget support works in conjunction with customs protection, the role of cooperatives with reception obligations, with the quota system and concession regulation to ensure profitability and varied usage structures across the country. Most of what I have now pointed out, the Advance Party will reduce or liquidate. They propose to cut 7 billion a year. kr on the agricultural agreement and they will reduce customs protection. If this were done, the net income in agriculture would be largely away from the first year. It doesn't help to compensate for taxes when you don't have anything to tax. Those who are engaged in a living agriculture throughout the country should appreciate the government's will and ability to use a varied set of instruments to achieve just a living and good agriculture, and that we are also willing to have a well-functioning customs protection to ensure the disposal of Norwegian agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e964	Only 14 pst. by Norwegian farmers, on a full-time basis. Many young people opt out of the profession because it is difficult to run full-time. Does the Council agree that rigid rules such as bans on sharing, the maximum price of agricultural properties, housing obligations and production ceilings make it difficult for people to be able to farm in Norway on a full-time basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e969	In Norwegian agriculture today there are more than 50,000 annual works. There are over 40,000 annual works in the Norwegian food industry and the country-based food industry. It's a significant and big industry that means enormously to large parts of the country. It's one of the country's most remote industries when you take the food industry and agriculture and see it together. We have a goal of increasing production, increasing food production – not reducing it – because we want that value creation, and we also believe it is an advantage for Norway to have a certain degree of self-sufficiency in food so that we do not depend entirely on imports. So the government's goal is to increase production – not tear down, which is the goal of the Progress Party. The means we use in agricultural policy are precisely to ensure that we can use the land of the country – whether it is in the most central strata around the Oslofjorden, Mjösa, in Finnmark, or in valleys like Gudbrandsdalen and Østerdalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e974	Every day, three farms are laid down. We haven't been through a butter crisis many months ago. As a result of the butter crisis, the authorities suspended the production ceiling on milk production in order to counteract an increasing crisis. You could do that. Then you go back to the same rigid legislation with production ceilings. Does the Council of State see that there is something wrong with agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e981	The answer to that is no. If you take milk as an example, one of the challenges is that we only use a small proportion of the milk for butter, that is, the milk fat, and well over 90 pst. we have to use for other types of products. So if we had just increased milk production to cover the entire butter demand that is right now, we wouldn't have had provision for the rest of the milk, and over 90 pst. Of the milk we had no place to use. Therefore, there is a regulatory import of butter that is currently being made by market regulators. But we have a good system in Norway, and that makes us use resources all over Norway, used the grasslands all over Norway, and there are many who are willing to invest and invest. The government is going to stimulate more investment in agriculture in the years to come, because we want to increase national production and have food production based on Norwegian resources, which creates value creation and jobs around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e988	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-10.ana.ud2057e1001	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
