ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e41	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative Per Sandberg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e49	On behalf of myself, I would like to make suggestions on increased care requirements for dog owners in the vicinity of guide dogs in service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e54	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e66	The Stortinget received a Friday announcement from the Prime Minister's office that the state councils Ola Borten Moe, Espen Barth Eide and Heikki Holmås will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e73	I have a question for Minister of Defense Barth Eide. Currently, Stortinget deals with the defence's long-term program. The backbone of this plan is the purchase of new fighter planes, JSF. The need for new fighter aircraft is so absolute, even though our F-16 aircraft have done an impressive job, not least during the actions in Libya. New fighter planes are very precious. For Norway, the price is calculated at a point between 60 and 70 billion. kr. One challenge in the purchase is that a lot of questions were asked about the progress and the costs of expanding the aircraft. That a new generation of fighter aircraft will be demanding to develop, is a fact, while it is important that as a customer it can be expected that the aircraft will be delivered at the agreed time, with the ordered quality, and that the price will be as intended. What bothers me, and more with me, is signals of increased costs, difficulties with new technology, and whether you will be able by the supplier to meet his obligations. That the U.S. defense is also going to buy aircraft from the same supplier, is a plus in this case, because it'll help keep pressure on the manufacturer. Nevertheless, US authorities are also concerned about progress, price and quality. It has, among other things, obtained through multiple input from the Government Accountability Office, where they have just pointed this out. The Stortinget has also been involved in several aspects in terms of price, not least this was a topic just before Christmas, when the Council of State and the Secretary of State were involved. What I still want to focus on is the fact that the US Navy has already now asked Boeing for information about the next generation of fighter planes, a so-called sixth generation, while JSF is referred to as the fifth generation. I expect the Minister of Defense to be familiar with this, and I'm interested in what kind of thoughts he has. Because from my point of view, it's very alarming that the US Navy, which is going to have the JSF plane, is going to have to start at the next step right now. An aeroplane of this type usually has a working time of approximately: 40 years. In this way, it would have been more natural for the process not to start now, but perhaps about. 10 years. But it's not like that. I therefore ask the Council of State to explain whether he is aware of this, and how the Council of State is assessing this against the JSF.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e84	I thank the representative Ellingen for a good question about an important topic. The size has been involved a number of times, as the representative says, and not only that, but the size is involved right now, because the Storting has to deal with the government's proposal for a long-term plan, where these questions are thoroughly investigated and thoroughly documented. We have also answered a few hundred questions from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, among others. These themes, so I'll also refer to them. I would also like to say that I feel that we have done a very solid and thorough downsizing process and have chosen the aircraft that best meets the Norwegian operational requirements. It's F-35, which fully met the assumptions we set. We made estimates of what the price would be, which was quite robust, with significant provision for uncertainty, and it is a pleasure once again to be able to tell that the price assumptions of 2008 hold. They are fairly accurate in terms of cost and have become somewhat more reasonable in terms of the lifetime cost of use of this aeroplane. The F-35 will be the dominant fighter plane in central western countries from about now to 2050. It is well possible that the US Navy is running long-term planning far beyond that, but there is no doubt that those who want very many other parts of the US defense to have a significant strain of F-35, which has been developed as just a ‘joint’ aircraft, which is supposed to unite properties previously reserved for some types of aircraft, so that you get a large strain of aircraft, and the pilots can easily switch between them. I believe that it is without comparison the best aircraft for Norway, and also within a price that we have submitted to the Stortinget a proposal to terminate the financing of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e91	I record that the Minister of Defense is cautiously waiting for his answer on his knowledge of the sixth generation fighter aircraft. From my point of view, at least it's like when one of the big users already chooses to move forward on the next generation, when we haven't yet got a fifth generation fighter plane up to go, it either means that you're very busy predicting the possibilities ahead, or that you're worried about the quality of what you've already ordered, and therefore you have to move on in such a process. I fully agree with the Minister of Defense on what he says about the price. I assume like everyone else that the prices, the numbers we've been dealing with, are going to cancel out. I assume that the quality of the planes will be as expected. But on my side, as I said, it is worrying that one of the biggest users already sees the need to move forward, because they are concerned about the reality of the JSF programme. That is why I would like to know once again if the Council of State considers this to be unproblematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e98	I have no concern at all about the quality. As in all major development projects, there is a good deal of work to do to get everything in place, and extensive testing is done. So it's not just in Lockheed Martin that produces the plane, it's in the U.S. Air Force – and other US users – up to at least 1,000 people working on ongoing testing, evaluation and further development of the F-35 aircraft, which gives us a huge gain, because there are resources we and other smaller countries would never have had to ensure that the quality would be good. The progress of the process has been questioned. There, the Pentagon and my colleague Leon Panetta, with whom I am in close contact, have taken many important steps, and as Ellingsen was quite right in mind, it is a great advantage for Norway that the Pentagon has such a great deal of pressure on the programme itself. I'm not in doubt that US Navy and we and many others are going to be a major user of F-35, and we're going to be a happy user, as we've been about the F-16 plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e105	Two follow-up questions have been asked, first Peter N. Myhre.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e108	A year ago the Stortinget Prop was treated. 110 S for 2010–2011 on the purchase of fighter aircraft to the Defence. Then the government's proposal was that the price estimate should be set at 61 billion kroner. kr, and the Storting decided to do so, including an uncertainty provision by which the government authorised a total of 72 billion. kr for the entire flight purchase. Then my question to the Minister of Defence is: does the Minister of Defense now feel confident that this cost framework will be kept and that the aircraft will be able to be acquired without exceeding the 72 billion mandate decision? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e115	The answer to that is yes – to the extent that you can be sure of something in this world, because we use solid investigation models that are externally quality-proof. A new review of the price assumptions was made in 2012, as we have also explained in detail to Stortinget in the long-term defence plan. The purchase price has gone down slightly compared to last year – to over 60 billion. kr, and not 61 brd. kr, but it's practically the same amount. It is the best estimate we can make, and it is externally quality assured, and it is quite consistent with the developments we see in the market as well. I feel safe about that, and we are working specifically to implement the initial acquisition of four aircraft, which we were authorised to do last year from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e122	Ivar Kristiansen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e125	When the US Navy, as late as last month, saw the need to look ahead and explore alternatives, I wonder – in the light of the strong criticism expressed by the last two US defence ministers through very critical questions and strong criticism of the JSF programme – how the Norwegian Minister of Defence can still say: Relax, this is going very well. What is it that these two US defense ministers have misunderstood, as Barth Eide has understood, when perhaps the biggest client of the aircraft, the US Navy, who has 600-800 aircraft that they are predicting and going to buy now, turns away? Does the Council not see that this can have a dramatic impact on price, time of delivery and how to be financially able to operate these planes above the Norwegian defence budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e133	First of all, I want to remember that a main buyer of F-35 is the US Air Force, and not just the US Navy, but the US Navy should also have planes, that's absolutely right. There are several services in the United States to fly, and Canada, Australia and a number of European countries have chosen the F-35. We've also explained what a variation in the number of purchased flights means for the price, and it's significantly less than what you might intuitively think. What really affects the price is currency security. If the dollar rate stays the way it is today, this acquisition becomes much, much cheaper for Norway than we have said, but we can't assume that. We have to assume an imaginary future price, based on the observations made by the Ministry of Finance in the market. I know these defence ministers and have discussed the F-35 many times with them. I have repeatedly been given the clear impression that they both believe in the aircraft and want to buy it. The challenge has been the operation of the programme itself, not the quality of the aeroplane.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e140	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e143	My question goes to the Minister for Development. In yesterday’s statement on Afghanistan, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre said: ‘Norwegian aid must be adjustable in the event of development going in the wrong direction.’ It's a view of right parts. Ethiopia is a country where the human rights situation is steadily deteriorating, and the last year has been particularly bad. Anti-terrorist laws are used against oppositionals; in the last decade, no country has imprisoned more journalists than Ethiopia, and there is a large Forced Movement Programme of 1.5 million people, to use some examples. This is well documented, both through the UN Human Rights Council reports on Ethiopia, which expresses a very critical concern, and NORAD also confirms the problems. The United Kingdom has increased its assistance to Ethiopia — a policy that the Right has clearly expressed that we are deeply in disagreement with. Sweden and Finland, however, have stopped most of their cooperation with Ethiopia because of the situation. Together with Canada, our neighbouring countries are now taking a full review of their policy on Ethiopia. The United States expresses deep concern about the situation in the country and, unlike Norway, does not provide direct budget support to Ethiopia. In this situation, the Norwegian Government decided in March to triple the aid to Ethiopia, from 200 million. kr to approx. 600 million. kr per year. It's going to make Ethiopia one of our greatest aid recipients. The question is: why is aid increased by several hundred million dollars to a country where there is a manifest error of development in several areas, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that aid can be adjusted and reduced if developments are going in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e162	State Council Heikki Holmås is welcomed to his first meeting with Stortinget's oral question time, and we look forward to a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e165	Thank you, President and thank you for the question from the representative ine M. Eriksen Soreide. One of the things that really occupied me in the past as a big-time representative and a member of the municipal committee was precisely the refugee situation for Ethiopia. There is no doubt that the human rights situation in Ethiopia is serious, and that is why Norway accepts about half of the people who are applying for protection from Ethiopia. The feedback from several organisations, including from the United Nations people working with human rights in Ethiopia, is clear that the human rights situation in Ethiopia is not good. There is also the background to the government's decision to step up support for Ethiopia. Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world, where many people have been affected by drought disasters for years and in other ways have been affected by underdevelopment. We have contributed to Ethiopia's development, because it has gone in a positive direction in terms of economic growth, which has given more people the opportunity to live a better life. We want to support that, and that is something that Norwegian organisations, among others. has a long tradition of contributing. But as we stepped up the development aid to Ethiopia, it was at the same time quite natural for me when, a few weeks ago, I was visiting there, taking up both with human rights organisations and, in particular, with the authorities in Ethiopia, just the human rights situation and what can be done to help improve it. So we signed a political agreement, a so-called MoU – Memorandum of Understanding – that just takes up the political dialogue. It's going to be about energy, about agriculture and the development of agriculture, what's going to be about forests and bets to care for the forest in Ethiopia, and then it's going to be about human rights. Last night I met with the Ethiopian diaspora to discuss how we can continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e174	I am very pleased to note a much more humble attitude to this question from Holmås than from his predecessors. His predecessor, Erik Solheim, spent most of the time each time the opposition raised this very important and difficult question, renouncing human rights violations in Ethiopia as so-called solving claims. I am very pleased that Holmås takes a completely different position. In April of this year, the Development Policy Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hege Hertzberg, said in a discussion meeting of the Polytechnic Association: ‘It’s amazing what Senawi does. He's a kind of leader Africa needs! Should we not support millions of Ethiopians getting out of poverty because his human rights policy is hopeless?’ I think it reflects a very special view of human rights. That's what I see as a luxury product, which we in the West can decide who will be involved. The question is whether Holmås agrees with his development policy director that one can so easily ignore the human rights situation and violations of human rights in Ethiopia.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e188	That's not what I think the director does. She says that the human rights situation is hopeless, but that we should nevertheless focus on development for the poorest in the country. That's a line I support. We need to work systematically to improve human rights in all countries. There is, in my opinion, no excuse for gross violations of human rights – to engage in torture and various forms of abuse and subversion of people who make them run for flight. There's no excuse for that. These are fundamental human rights that I believe must underlie in any society. At the same time, I believe that just because a people is governed by a government that is authoritarian, we cannot fail to back up under the opportunity of development of these peoples. That's the dilemma and the balance we have to deal with in the best possible way. I believe that we are doing so from the Norwegian side today. I think we are doing it through the political dialogue we have, where we are constantly not only discussing human rights, but also ensuring that we support a development strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e195	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e198	The balance that the Council of State showed here is that you simply look through the fingers with the most basic requirements for the standard of human rights – something that you at home relate to as if they were almost sacred. However, in the case of Ethiopia — a terrorist regime classified in line with Libya, which was bombed with SV’s support — this regime is being further sponsored. This isn't good in hops. On the same day as the ceremony – this is the case – at the conclusion of the return agreement Ethiopia–Norway, several journalists were imprisoned in Addis Ababa. Is there any link between this triple sponsorship to Ethiopia and the conclusion of the recent return agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e207	First of all, I would like to make it clear that it is not. Secondly, I would like to state that I do not agree with the description of the policy of the Norwegian Government. I believe that we are ready to cook at the fact that we are going to deal with the world's poor in the fight for better development and fair distribution in the world. We do that in Ethiopia by backing up the work that makes agriculture there more resistant to the climate change we see. All of us in this room remember the famine in 1984 and how it hit Ethiopia particularly hard. We saw last year during the drought on the Horn of Africa that Ethiopia, through the systematic work that has been done in recent years, was much better equipped to face this drought disaster, which hit Somalia much harder, precisely because they had not done a similar job. We're going to do the kind of uplift. At the same time, we must work hard for fundamental human rights, because it is our government for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e214	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e218	I also notice a certain change of mood after the change of state council regarding Norway's relationship with Ethiopia. That's very good. We're going to hope that this gets into a better form than it's been now. As far as Ethiopia is concerned, there has been great growth. This economic growth has benefited a very small elite, while poverty among most of the country's nearly 90 million inhabitants is just as bad as before. The country is corrupt and systematically violates human rights. Growth has probably been greatest in the production of political refugees. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Aid: will the Minister for Aid now take the initiative to make demands that the Ethiopian authorities must meet in order to enjoy as much assistance as they have now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e227	I notice that the representative of the Progress Party here is very concerned about the political refugees to Norway. I also noticed that his party leader on TV yesterday said that asylum policy should be tightened. I hope that it will not affect the Ethiopian refugees, who are now largely granted residence in Norway, precisely because they are fleeing from an authoritarian regime. At the same time, I would like to say very clearly that what we are doing in the dialogue with the Ethiopian authorities – and what we are going to do in the time to come – is being involved in building up capacity. We're going to go to development work, we're going to invite you to conferences that address both the human rights situation and the development situation in the country. At the same time, I don't agree with the description that economic developments in Ethiopia only benefit a few. The perception, both from our embassy and from UN organisations, is that this is one of those countries where there is actually one development that benefits more. That's what we support.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e236	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e239	Ethiopia is an incredibly important country in this region, given its location. It's a big country. It's one of the poorest countries in Africa. It's a country that Norway has entered into in recent years a dialogue with that we couldn't dream of a few years ago, where we had very big challenges with the relationship with Ethiopia. That is why the Minister for Development made it wise to travel to Ethiopia as one of the first countries he visited. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Minister of Development is holding forward the ambition to support the country's poorest, while at the same time keeping the country's leadership responsible for the human rights situation. My question is: Is the agreement that the Minister of Development has now entered into in Addis Ababa structured in such a way that a genuine human rights dialogue can be conducted where development is checked and the country is held responsible for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e246	I'm glad of that question. It is quite right, as the representative Højbräten says, that Ethiopia plays an important role in the region. Addis Ababa in Ethiopia is the ‘capital’ of Africa, in the sense that it is the headquarters of the African Union. That's where you meet now, for example. to seek a solution to the conflict between South Sudan and Sudan. Negotiations have been held in Addis Ababa, and Ethiopia plays an important role in the region in contributing to peace and stability. That role is important for us to support, because creating peace and stability in that region, which has been one of the hardest and most conflict-affected areas in Africa, and contributing to a positive development there, is important. On the question of the follow-up to the human rights dialogue: Yes, in meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, I stressed human rights and democracy issues, and after signing the agreement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself also stressed that this would also provide room for dialogue on human rights and democratic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e253	Step Skei Grande – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e256	The right is quite right that this is sometimes a cruel regime, but it is also a country with an annual growth of 7 pst. It is a country that, according to the World Bank, has increased the supply of clean water to the population from 19 p.m. to now 65,8 pst. It'll benefit everyone. But it is also a country with enormous challenges in terms of human rights and democracy. When you have chosen to cooperate with a country that actually has so much growth, which actually manages to grips with the population in general, my question is: why can't you turn aid over to building civil society, turn aid to build political opposition and twist assistance so that you actually build the institutions that are involved and lay the foundation for a democracy, which is the precondition for all the good to come out to the people in general? So my question is, why don't you make a change when you see that the growth has occurred in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e263	First of all, we have to remember that growth has a very, very low starting point. When I was out in the districts of Ethiopia, I just left for a few hours, or an hour and a half, from one of the larger cities in the country. There was no electricity in the population, and they had only recently been able to access irrigation and the possibility of a full-year agriculture rather than just a rainy day. We're talking about a country that has huge economic challenges, and where it's a long way to go. So growth over several years must benefit the population. Secondly, I would like to point out one of the problems in Ethiopia. They include: introduced a law limiting, inter alia, the amount of aid that can be granted. from international organisations to civil society organisations, inter alia: to those who work with rights. It's one of the things that makes rights-based organisations and those who work for rights and democracy stand weaker now than before. This is one of the things we and the rest of the international community address – and will address – with the Ethiopian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e270	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e273	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Development a question – so he can come up again. The country has been given a new State Council for Development Policy. It's a government council with extensive experience from Stortinget. He will learn that the Christian People's Party is a party that can be both a demanding critic and an interaction partner in strengthening the aid both qualitatively and quantitatively, so I invite to cooperate on it on behalf of the Christian People's Party. We are concerned with the basic elements of development, and one of the basic elements is education. That's why we're very pleased that, here in the Great Britain, over the last growing-up period, and into this growing-up period, we've gathered broad support to invest in education as part of the aid, and to invest more in education as part of the aid. We do that because education helps to lift girls out of a marginalized role in society. Education contributes to building the economic conditions for growth and development in a country. Education also helps to save lives, because it also contributes to a better health situation and quality of life for the population. That's why education is a very central piece in development. Now a unanimous increase has said that the share of education provided by Norway in the aid budget will be increased. In fact, the opposite happens. How will the Council of State deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e284	I thank you for the question. I also thank you for the invitation to do a proper cooperation job on assistance. I acknowledge, and have praised earlier, the efforts of the Christian People's Party to contribute to an increase in the overall aid budget. We've followed it up, and total assistance is now over 1 pst. of what we serve here in the country. That is what we and Sweden are all about. Denmark has begun to do the job of getting up again after the left-hand side took over with the social democrats and the socialists and the Radical Left - after the right-hand side had cut there, a right-hand side without the Christian People's Party's allies. I think that's a good starting point. We say, hey, we have to be clear, because it's our job to contribute to international distribution. The fact that we are among the richest in the world leads to some commitments, in my opinion, that we should help those who are not so well off to get a better chance of development. Let me start by saying that I think education is absolutely crucial. Education is very important. It is important for young people to have the opportunity to live a richer life, to have the opportunity to contribute to democratic development and prosperity in their own country. It's important for girls, because we know that providing education for girls is essential to postpone when they have their first child. I spoke yesterday about girls in Niger, there 50 pst. They had their first child before they were 15. It is also important to provide an opportunity for the whole country to build the future. Norway is among the largest contributors to education in the world. We are the largest in support of UNICEF's basic fund. I guess we're the sixth largest contributor in the world in the education sector. But then it's true, as Dagfinn Højbråten says, that the aid for education has been stable at about the same level, between 1.5 billion. SEK and SEK 1.7 billion. NOK, and did not have an increase, as the Stortinge provided. I'll get back to it in the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e296	It was very wise in this answer, but it was not an answer to the question. We have received a government council with a very solid background from Stortinget, and therefore Stortinget is interested in knowing how this council will deal with unanimous messages from Stortinget. There has been a unanimous message, confirmed by several settings presented here in the Chamber, that the share of education as part of Norwegian aid should be increased. The opposite happens. The question is whether this Council of State respects a unanimous request by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e303	I respect a unanimous request from Stortinget. But then, in the later budgets submitted by our government, we have presented priorities for the Stortinget that state that we are unable to respond to the unanimous request of the Stortinget. Those budgets have subsequently been approved by the Stortinget. But I think there is a need to assess how we can bet on education towards the 2013 budget. I would say that the most important way to increase education in developing countries is not that the Norwegian or other countries are to finance the education sector on a permanent basis, but that countries themselves take a greater share of responsibility for education. They do it by growing. We see that in sub-Saharan Africa there is now an annual growth in education budgets of 6 pst. Grounding up land to be able to invest themselves in education is the most dangerous and forward-looking way of supporting education. And then we're still going to be strong on education from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e310	Three questions have been asked and given rise to follow-up – first Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e313	I choose to interpret the council positively, in the sense that he is willing to listen to the Storting. But I have to remember the story again: in 2009, when a big message was presented about the leaders of Norwegian development policy, education was no longer a priority. That wasn't one of the main priorities. That's what Stortinget reacted to. A comprehensive foreign committee, as Mr Dagfinn Højbräten said, wrote a request for an increase in the share of education aid. Then it's clear that what the Council of State does in the various budgets is up to the government. But for the Stortinget, at least we perceive that when the Committee gathers on wording and gives him a message, the Council of State should follow it. The Council of State itself says how important education is, so I just want to ask: How does the Council of State assess the results of Norwegian aid for education? And will the Council of State choose to increase the share within education — if it is as important as he says?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e322	The results of Norwegian education assistance are good. This is one of the areas where we see that although the Millennium Goals are not going to be achieved, it has been a positive development. I think it's something like 28 million more children who have had the opportunity of education in relation to the escalation that we've given up. There are still too many children who do not get the opportunity for education, but there is a systematic job to increase this. Norway has prioritised educational efforts for the most vulnerable children. It's for girls, because we know that it's the girls that are most often kept away from school in countries where people have bad advice, and it's too young in countries that are in conflict. We believe it is essential that young people receive training to get through that conflict. When you get out on the other side, you need a generation of young people who haven't had their entire childhood destroyed, but who have opportunities in the future. We're going to evaluate how we can invest more in education in the coming years, towards the budget in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e331	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e334	It is clear from the context that the representative Højbräten is right when he says that the leaders adopted by the Stortinget in 2009 have not been followed up by the government. So the government might have a good reason for that, that other funds have come in from governments locally in the individual countries that we are dealing with here. But then the government has to say from there to the Stortinget. And then the government has to file a case for the Storting, in some form, where you say, OK, we see what The Storting decided in 2009, but we think you should do it another way. Then my question to the Minister of Assistance about the government will address this in a new case that can be brought before the Storting, so that we can reconcile the Storting's priorities with the government's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e343	I think it's a government opinion that the way we have presented the concrete priorities in the annual budgets has given very clear signals about how we set up education against the general objectives we have from the government, and it's quite right that the proportion has not increased. Nor do I believe – when we look at the challenges we have both to provide climate-friendly agriculture, to ensure that rainforests are maintained in different parts of the world, and when we say that we have given priority to following up what is the United Nations Secretary-General's commitment to electricity, to provide electricity for all as a basis for development – that in the budgets that have been set up, there is an increase in the share of education in the years that come. But I want to evaluate how we can invest in education in the budgets that come. And this is the way – and I expect that at least the Progress Party is involved – that we need to pay attention to the fact that the countries themselves are giving priority to education, because that is what is sustainable over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e348	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e351	There are several things that creep in this explanation here. Firstly, the Storting has been informed in the budget proposal that the proportion will increase, but the accounts show that the proportion is falling. Secondly, there is a very special way of dealing with majority decisions in the Storting. If one can ignore them, if one gets trumped by his decision with the votes of the government parties in the hall, it is not to show respect for the decision of the Storting. However, as many have been involved, the share of education has declined. It went down from 7 pst. from 2009 to 6 pst. in 2010. At the same time, the aid money spent on energy and the environment has gone up from 9 pst. in 2009 to 16 pst. in 2010. It is a violent development, which shows that priority can be given if you want to. For the former Bondevik government, it was a goal to double education assistance between 2001 and 2005, and we achieved that goal, and that was because we focused on it. If the Council of State wants to contribute to education, it must also be committed through the budgets. Why don't you do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e360	We're going through the budgets. We are among the six largest education providers in the world, and we are the one who gives the most support to UNICEF's programmes for primary education for children. It's to bet on education. Then we help to ensure that education is facilitated, among others. through bets on light – providing electricity around everyone. I visited Liberia last week, a country where 1 pst. public electricity is available to the population. Now that they have access to electricity in the school, the kids have the opportunity to read in light from lamps in the evening and have the opportunity to obtain basic training. Making countries grow and using the growth of education is the most sustainable thing we can do to ensure that education is given to the young people who need it. It has also been the policy we have put forward in the concrete priorities of government budgets in recent years, and we have kept the level of assistance in education at approximately the same level in dollars and cents, between 1.5 billion. SEK and SEK 1.7 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e368	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e371	This is also a question to the Minister for Assistance, who has been in office for a little over two months, since 23 March. Since then, government teams have been rather silent in terms of assistance and development assistance. From 1962 until now, Norway has given 516 billion. 2011 kroner in u-help. It is slightly more than 100,000 kroner per capita in Norway. I do not demand that our new Minister of Assistance should benefit from all this money – at least not yet. But in 32 of the 50 years that have passed, Norway has had government that now, where SV is present, or government where SV has been the parliamentary basis for labor party government. So my question is, when we look at the use of 516 billion. kr and the results, state councils are satisfied with the results of the use of 516 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? Or does the Council of State, as we do in the Progress Party, think that the time is ripe to make the u-help more effective and targeted?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e380	I thank you for the question. This is a classic leap forward, that there's a contradiction between how much money you spend and how efficiently you run. It's not like that. How much money you spend depends on how solid a person is. What you see around Europe today is that we have, for the first time in recent years, a decline in aid. It is partly political, as in the Netherlands, where the extreme right has gained power and has helped to force aid. That is also what we can expect if the Right Party and the Advance Party join forces in the government, because both parties programmatically cut the aid. I'd say it's fundamentally unsolvable, because this world needs more redistribution, not less redistribution. We need people who stand up for the poorest in the world, not people who leave, and who say, "You know what, here in the country we have a lot, but we really want more -- we don't want to contribute to social cohesion." That's not how we get a better world with less war and less conflict. When it comes to the question of aid efficiency, ensuring that the aid works, it's like I'm happy about how we use the aid, but I think we have to work all the time to use it in a better way. One of the things we do when we work with international organisations, such as the UN, the World Bank and others, is that we constantly demand that we be able to demonstrate that the aid works and that we look at the effects. Some people come that we can point to, in the short term, for example. what we use through our vaccine programme, GAVI. It shows that kids are being vaccinated, and we see that there's a drop in the number of kids dying. That's good, and it shows that the aid works. In some places we have to back up under more long-term developments because there are unstable states, like Liberia, where you have six surgeons across the country, and you have to build an entire state. Then there's a longer-term job that needs to be done, and that job we're more than willing to join, because we want a world that's more fair than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e391	My question was whether the Minister for Aid believes that these 516 billion. kr has been used well and that the use of these 516 billion. kr has given the results we had hoped for. Although average life expectancy has risen worldwide over these 50 years, some of Norway’s most unhelpful countries are far behind. In Ethiopia, average life expectancy is 48 years, in Tanzania 45 years, in Mozambique 40 years, in Zimbabwe 39 years, and in Liberia, life expectancy is only 38 years – less than half of what we know from our own part of the world. Then my question is: does the Minister of Assistance think that the results are proportionate to the use of NOK 516 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e400	I think we should be proud of what we've been given. The places where the assistance has been used well, where it works well. The places where the assistance has not been used well, we need to learn from it and do it better. Doing better is something we have to work with all the time, but this does not conflict – as the Progress Party tries to add up – with how much money we spend and how solidarity we should be. Take, for example: Liberia: Liberia is a country that has been through 14 years of civil war. The country has a population of the population in Norway, so they have killed 250,000 people. They have 22 MW of power units. In Norway, we have more than a thousand times as much electricity — and installed capacity to produce electricity — as they have in Liberia. When I visited Liberia last week, there were broken windows in the finance department on the first floor. It says a little bit about how short development has come. Massive assistance is needed over time, stable and safe donors, as is the case in Norway. That's what we're going to do, but the Progress Party will cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e407	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e410	A number of countries providing assistance are at the bottom of the Transparency International list of corrupt countries. Some international media have also focused on the fact that aid does not reach those who need it the most, but actually ends up in the pockets of corrupt politicians in these countries. In addition, a number of the countries at the bottom of the list break almost all human rights. So what will the Minister of Development do to make sure that the money reaches its destination and that human rights are respected?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e417	I am pleased with that question, because this is one of the areas where I believe the government has done a very systematic and good job. My predecessor, Erik Solheim, did a job to create a central control unit and gain greater control, greater transparency and greater transparency about how we spend the money. One of the things we're doing now is that we have openness around those things where there's corruption. It's published every quarter, I think, an open list on the Internet from the Central Control Unit, which shows the places where corruption has taken place, whether we've got our money back, or whether we don't have it, because we have zero tolerance for corruption. At the same time, it is true — and this is often a dilemma — that some of the least developed countries are the least developed and most poor because they are corrupt and do not have good governance. Then we're facing the dilemma: are we going to go in there and help those who are the poorest, or are we going to stay away and let them down because they have corrupt governance? Our job, and our method, is to try to back up the poor without the money going into the pockets of the corrupt.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e426	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e429	The clear priority of the right, both in government and in general, has been both to increase education assistance and to increase assistance to the poorest countries, particularly to sub-Saharan Africa. That's where we've seen that education aid in particular has fallen in recent years. If the Council of State is looking for inspiration for good development policy, he can only look at Sweden. Sweden is therefore a country which, according to the OECD, provides more assistance than Norway, and which is not least much more open to trade. agricultural products other than those of Norway. It is known as a bourgeois government that governs Sweden and has ruled Sweden for many years. At the heart of the question here is precisely the consequences, if you find that developments in a country are going in the wrong direction — there may be corruption, there may be gross violations of human rights, or there may be poor governance. On the right, we have repeatedly suggested that we have full transparency in the assistance, that we do what we do in the United Kingdom, and that we follow the money. But this the government has spent a lot of energy fighting against. What impact does the Council of State think it will have, if countries show a negative trend over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e440	Let me first say that I'm not completely familiar with the description that we're struggling with openness. Because we have both transparency about what is happening around corruption – we are too open and public around it – and we have tried to facilitate that on Norad’s side now it is possible to see what kind of assistance goes to the individual countries. But here I'm open to hearing from the representative about what we can do further work on, because I think working for transparency is important. For people in Norway, it is important to know both what the money goes to and that it comes out, but it is also important for another reason: if you say that money should go to something in a city – to expand power stations or power lines to the inhabitants of a city – then you have a much greater degree of reprobability, and there is a greater opportunity for the citizens to help themselves to discover whether there is corruption or other negative things going on. So the transparency line I support very much. Well, now I can't answer the rest of the question to the representative properly, but we can do it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e450	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – to the next and last follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e453	First: I can't avoid noticing that yesterday the Progress Party came with a proposal to cut off the petrol taxes by 6 billion. kr – about the same amount as they also want to cut the aid budget – and I am therefore pleased that the Council of State is so clear that assistance works. When I signed up for the policy 12 years ago, I learned that about. 35,000 children die every day before they reach the age of five. Today there are 21,000 children, which is a huge leap forward. There are still many who need our help, but help benefits. Then we, who are concerned with increasing the aid budgets, are going to be the first to be critical. We need effective assistance, and we need to cut aid where it does not work, and be willing to make assistance more effective. However, assistance alone is not enough. The Christian People's Party has been engaged in an overall development policy. Assistance is an important part — education, health — but there is also business development and trade. We have proposed a separate investment fund of 10 billion. kr. to increase investment in the poorest countries and generate growth. So I am interested to hear: what measures will the Minister for Development go in for, to create growth, economic development and trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e466	I think it's very good what the representative Ropstad says, and I'm joining it by a hundred percent. In the case of assistance, Norway spends 27–28 billion. kroner, there's a lot of money, and we're going to make sure that money is spent in a good way. But there's only three times the school budget in Oslo, and everyone understands that we can't manage to save the whole world by three times the school budget in Oslo. We depend on using the assistance targeted, together with others, to back up positive economic development and the positive development of governance, so that people themselves can get income. Some of the things that I very clearly noticed, and that I got clear feedback about, when I was in Tanzania, it was the head of one of the largest voluntary civil society organisations that said: if you can help our authorities renegotiate the agreements with the mining companies, it will mean a lot more than the assistance you give us. I think that is a good word for thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e475	Then we've come to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e478	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. On May 7th this year, both the Council of State and the signatory were present at the official opening of the Technology Centre in Mongstad. Moreover, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg made the official opening. This centre is described as a milestone in the qualification of CO2 cleaning technologies. We know that technology development will be among the most important single factors, perhaps the most important, to meet the challenges of global greenhouse gas emission reduction. The technology center at Mongstad seems impressive, both in design and in technological refinements. With a construction cost of about $6 billion. It may be natural for the plant to raise awareness in different disciplines, as the international representation on the opening showed. However, there is a special challenge facing the government in relation to the future operation of the Mongstad refinery itself. Refineries in Europe have had meager years, and the competitive situation is demanding. The Mongstad refinery, owned by Statoil, has had red numbers on its operations for a long time. According to Statoil-Chief Helge Lund’s opinions on Technical Weekly 10 May 2012, he cannot guarantee that the Mongstad refinery will deliver exhaust gas to the CO2 test facility. Without the refinery, it will also not be profitable to continue operating the power plant at Mongstad, as it is dependent on supplying heat to the refinery. This means that the Technology Centre Mongstad, the CO2 cleaning plant, can be standing without CO2. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State think about this situation that has arisen? Will he make grips that can make refinery operations more profitable? Does the State Council have a Plan B for the Technology Centre if it stays standing without CO2, and what is in that case Plan B?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e506	First of all, thank you for important and relevant questions. We were both present at the opening of the test centre in Mongstad, and let me start by saying that I believe and hope there will be an international milestone in the process of generating technology for the clean-up of CO2, a technology that we depend on to succeed in solving global greenhouse gas challenges. The government has informed the Stortinget in the revised national budget that Statoil has made write-downs at the Mongstad refinery of a total of 9 billion. in recent years, and that there is a strenuous situation for the operation of refineries in Europe at present. It is linked to the general economic cycle, and there was a situation following the financial crisis in 2008. Statoil has underlined – it is important for me to say – that their ambition, their goal with Mongstad, is to drive Mongstad further economically. That's what Statoil, who owns the plant, does his job. I feel that the framework conditions in Norway are in line with the framework conditions in other countries in this way. I'm dealing with that as an oil and energy minister. As of now, I have no information to suggest that we are not going to get exhaust gas to run the test facility at Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e518	The bet on Mongstad is, after all, the government's lunar landing project, and I assume that the Council of State will see that this can move in a rather embarrassing direction. In any case, it is strange that the Council of State does not have a more active position on these issues. There is, of course, a limitation on the framework factors that politicians have, but at the same time there is a space for action and political governance of cost developments. The Mongstad refinery has a number of charges. They pay CO2 tax, they are subject to allowance schemes, property tax has increased due to changes in taxing, and they are subject to the electricity licence market. The Electric Certificate Market is a very low-hanging fruit the Council of State can clean up. We have a common electricity certificate market with Sweden. In Sweden, refineries are exempt from the electrical certificate requirement, but in Norway there is an additional cost burden. At the same time, the Council of State would be able to contribute to a more profitable operation of the refineries. Will the Council of State do something about what is politically possible, in relation to the level of fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e528	I feel that in Norway we have a framework for the operation of refinishing activities that are competitive and in line with those they have in those countries with which it is natural to compare. Then it is right that we have fees in Norway, as in other countries. However, I feel that the profitability challenges in Mongstad are related to other things than, for example, the electrical certification obligation, which the representative Meling here specifically addresses. I trust that Statoil will take control of the operating situation in Mongstad and do what they can to get the plant on the right keel, runs it economically. I'm interested in contributing to that happening, simply because Mongstad is an important facility in itself. It is an important industrial workplace; it is an important part of Norwegian coastal value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e535	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e538	The representative Meling mentioned property tax. It is a paradox that around Norway, municipalities practice property tax legislation in a way that is likely to be harmful to all industry in Norway. Most people are used to thinking of oil as just a profitable business, but here we see a part of the oil business that is highly competitive. Thus, the property tax base and property tax are offset. The right asked for a review of this already last year. Because we see that it's urgent, it's screaming in the industry. If the Council of State reads page 5 of Today's Business today, he gets that photo confirmed. Proposals have been sent out to the hearing, says the government, but there is definitely something to do with the matter, and it is urgent to have a review. Will the Council of State press its colleague, the Minister of Finance, for a review of property tax practices around Norway, which actually stimulate investment instead of destroying investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e545	Let me just stress that the property tax regulation is exactly that – the Minister of Finance's responsibility. Furthermore, there are long traditions in Norway for municipal property taxes, including on works and uses, and in many places there is an important basis for municipal income. So it's also that in Mongstad property taxes are required. However, I feel that local authorities are extremely concerned about the framework conditions for the refinery. This is a framework condition that they have the ability to influence themselves. I feel that there are quite similar incentives for municipalities and communities on the one hand and industrial businesses on the other. It is development, new investment and continued operation that are important to generate revenue again in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e555	Oskar J. Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e558	The new TCM centre in Mongstad has been very much awaited, as all known technologies for CO2 capture from waste gases are immature. A lot of people think that the government's CO2 handling is real-life, and more releases reinforce this impression. In addition, the cost picture is very uncertain and can end up in tens of billions. At best, this gives us industrial development if a happiness, but the premise, as one says, is that the Mongstad refinery exists. In More and Romesdal, the neighbour of Nyhamna, the landing site of the Worm Lange, wants to build a gas power plant in cooperation with the Siemens industrial group. Industriekraft Møre, which is the name of the company, wants to build a gas power plant with CO2 handling according to the no cure, no pay principle, i.e. no risk to the nation, but which can help solve a global threat. State councils will go in and allow this project to be realised too, so that not only a horse bets are realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e574	The framework for government's work on CO2 clean-up has been thoroughly addressed in Stortinget, at the latest when processing a wholesale notification a little over a year ago. There's two things to say about this. Firstly, I think it is right and important that we now go to work in Mongstad offensively and thoroughly. I believe we have every reason to be proud of the test facilities that are built there. It is a unique facility to help bring Norway and the world further important steps to clean up greenhouse gas emissions. Then the government described how we also want to look at plants in addition to Mongstad for full-scale cleaning. It is within the mandate of Gassnova. It's a work that they're doing now. In addition, government policy is firm, and there is no concession for the construction of gas power plants in Norway without the implementation of clean-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e586	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e589	A few weeks ago, the Council of State, the representative Meling, signed the opening of the technology centre at Mongstad. It was an important opening, because we can now test different methods of carbon capture. The Council of State has said earlier in this debate that he hopes it will be an international milestone. In the opening speech, the Prime Minister said that what he was in on this day was an important first step. First step is important. When climate, hunger and poverty are the greatest challenges of our time, we need to take many steps in many areas. We have to take some steps in terms of large-scale CO2 capture. I think there's a lot of people who wonder when we're going to take step 2 in Mongstad when it comes to full scale. The government has a history of postponing these steps. Therefore, I wonder if it is such that the investment base for step 2 will be presented to the Stortinget by 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e602	Yes, it will be submitted to Stortinget by 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e607	The representative Borghild Tende – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e610	The CHP plant in Mongstad, as the representative Meling said, is subject to allowances and part of the European ETS. Norway has been authorised to obtain from the State its allowances free of charge for the gas power plant in Mongstad. For 2012, these quotas are worth just under 28.6 million. kr. But Mongstad has so far received more allowances than they have used. The situation is then such that the state is already subsidising Mongstad by a significant amount. Does the Minister for Oil and Energy think it is right to subsidise a gas power plant and an oil refinery with Community money?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e615	I believe it is important that we have a long-term and predictable operating framework that important industrial and industrial activities in Norway. Mongstad is undoubtedly one of those plants. We have seen overall, I believe the representative's questions underline, the framework conditions for the operation of refineries in Norway, which I believe are fully at the height of and competitive in relation to the countries it is natural to compare with. So the operator and the owner, in this case Statoil, are working to make sure that this operation is cost-effective, that it pays off, and that it creates values both for the company and for society. That means that the government has presented what we believe to be a reasonable framework for Mongstad and the gas power plant. There are no plans to change those framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e620	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e634	The aim of the size is for all patients in need of rehabilitation to receive equivalent services tailored to the individual. Similarly, through different strategies, including through the national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation – no doubt what this strategy is about – and in budgetary proposals, the Ministry has called for the field to be strengthened. It is therefore important that we have the opportunity to look into whether the priorities and measures taken in the area of rehabilitation work in line with the Stortinge's intentions. The Committee would like to thank the National Audit Office for its important work on this report. The need for rehabilitation – and structure – has undergone major changes. The number of laydays and day rests has decreased, and rehabilitation has become a major part of the overall patient cycle. The capacity and activity associated with rehabilitation in ordinary departments has increased. Professional demands for institutions have become more stringent, and the number of professionals has increased. That's very good. This is also related to the fact that the way we treat disease has changed with new science and technology. An example of this is heart operations. Many people get implemented every year what a call for blockage, or PCI, which it is called fine, of the heart's coronary arteries. The block-out occurs by passing a thin catheter through a artery from the wrist or the brightness of the heart. The risk of depopulation is very small, and one usually travels home the day after treatment – and there is something quite different from the situation before, when this was performed with open heart surgery, which led to much longer time for rehabilitation afterwards. In its report, the Riksrevision has used a selection of indicators: bed places, waiting time, lieday, average bedtime and DRG points. The national audit itself states that the decline may have caused more or less activity when it is not taken into account — that is, it is not a very good indicator. The Ministry follows up and says that the conversions and measures taken to improve the quality of services make their effects difficult to measure using the indicators chosen by the National Audit Office. We are forced to have a system in place that will allow us to examine whether the Storting's goal is getting closer or more distant with the government's actions. The Directorate for Health has a statutory responsibility for further developing quality indicators, and the Committee stresses that it is important that this work is prioritised. The report identifies disparities between regions in relation to waiting time and the number of patients entitled to the necessary health care. It should not be a matter of geography that determines whether you get help quickly or too slowly, so the committee expects the department to put in place more measures to smooth out the differences between the regions. There is a great deal of good cooperation — even in the case of rehabilitation. We often see a positive impact on patients as better cooperation is between municipalities, health professionals and specialist services. Since 2001, municipalities have been required to have a coordinating unit. It leads to more accessibility, and it will be easier for the patient to obtain information. The study carried out by the National Audit Office shows that only one fifth — only one fifth — of the municipalities have established such a coordinating unit. It's not impressive, especially in connection with the fact that there's only 17 pst. of the rehabilitation spaces that have an individual interaction plan between the healthcare services to receive services from. The Committee sees it as an indication of the obligation of the municipalities that the regulation is now enshrined in the law and hopes that, together with the follow-up of the Health Directorate, it will lead to a marked increase in the number of municipalities that have established a coordinating unit. The Committee also believes that it is positive that the Department has started work on information, responsibilities and system implementation for work on an individual level, and hopes that this will lead to more patients getting an individual plan. With this, I recommend the setting of a joint committee, and advises the Stortinget that the National Audit Office's investigation of rehabilitation before the healthcare service is included in the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e662	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for her statement on the matter. I would also like to thank the Riksrevision for the good report. I want to make some additional comments. What is rehabilitation? Rehabilitation is defined in the regulation on rehabilitation and rehabilitation as time-limiting, planned processes with clear objectives and instruments, where several actors work together to provide the necessary assistance to the user's own efforts to achieve the best possible functional and mastering capacity, independence and participation socially and socially, or – very easily – to get people as healthy and functional as possible after illness or injury. The Progress Party has programmed that we will strengthen the rehabilitation service and transfer full financial responsibility to the state. A good and fully-fledged rehabilitation service must be based on the interaction between public, private and non-profit institutions serving households, so that the total capacity and competence are used at all times. We want freedom of choice to be introduced in relation to rehabilitation institutions, where the patient should be able to choose from among those institutions that have an adequate offer, whether public or private. We are also ready to strengthen the field of rehabilitation. As of today, this service is twofold. The four regional health establishments are responsible, through underlying health enterprises, for providing the necessary rehabilitation services at a specialised level, and municipalities are under the responsibility of the Local Health Service Act to provide their residents with medical rehabilitation and rehabilitation services. The national audit audit for the 2007 budget year showed that the proportion of patients who were granted the necessary medical care in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation was reduced between 2005 and 2007, while the average waiting time had increased. The verification also showed that few indicators were developed to measure the development of the subject area and the services provided within it. The goals set for the subject were few and little specific. Due to lack of clarity and reporting, it was difficult to assess the achievement of the target. There is a risk that the rehabilitation capacity is disproportionate to the needs of the population and a risk of inefficiency in existing services, said the Riksrevision. The aim of the new study has been to assess the extent to which the authorities discharge their overall responsibility to ensure the prioritisation of rehabilitation in healthcare in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. In this context, I would like to point out that it is good that the Riksrevision will follow up with new reports when problems are not resolved. Habilitation and rehabilitation shall be the next major health care area. There is broad consensus that all patients in need of rehabilitation should receive equivalent services, which are tailored to the individual’s need for treatment duration and living conditions. It is therefore important that the Riksrevision has now submitted a new study in the field. We note that there have been structural changes in the organisation of the rehabilitation service, that more emphasis is now being placed on day-care and outpatient services, and that rehabilitation starts earlier in the patient’s course. It should be expected that the change in the organisation of the rehabilitation services under way will be in line with the Stortingen objective of strengthening the offer. It is with some concern that I notice that there are considerable variations between health companies in the proportion of patients with the right to necessary health care in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation. The Riksrevision believes this is of such magnitude that it cannot be explained with distinction in medical judgement and different patient composition alone. The consequences of the wide variation may be that some patients who should have been entitled to the necessary health care are not given priority. This needs to be focused on, and action must be taken to balance these differences. The Party will point out, like the other batches, that further action is needed to reduce the waiting time. Long waiting time and failure to fulfil the right to necessary health care cannot be defended when there may be consequences for the health of the individual. It will also be possible to measure the impact of the measures taken by the government in this area of rehabilitation, as is the case in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. If you do not have good measurable quality indicators, it will be difficult to verify that measures actually work. Good cooperation between municipalities, healthcare companies and specialist health services is often important for the patient’s rehabilitation process. There is clearly a potential for improvement that can provide a more holistic patient trajectory by increasing communication and knowledge between levels. Here, municipalities also need to know their visit time and do their part of this important job, including work on an individual plan, which is a right and a good tool for interacting with the healthcare a patient is to receive, including rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e688	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a well-worked job. It's a unanimous setting. I only have a few brief comments on the matter. This applies, therefore, to the National Audit Office’s investigation into healthcare rehabilitation. What is demanding and serious is that overall it is not possible to measure whether rehabilitation in the specialist health service has been strengthened in the period 2005–2010. This fact builds, among other things: that it is not good enough measurement parameters. It is difficult to measure the evolution of the provision of rehabilitation by the indicators used today. Therefore, it is necessary to significantly improve rehabilitation systems that make capacity for rehabilitation visible. Only 17 pst. Of the rehabilitation areas, there is an individual plan – that would of course be everyone. More than 50 pst. by those who do not have a plan, have never received an offer to do so. Municipalities are required by regulation to have a coordinating unit for rehabilitation. 20 pst. – or one-fifth – of the municipalities have not established such a unit. At the same time, there is a great variation in the degree to which it works. All 80 pst. the municipalities agree that the specialist health service lacks knowledge of the services that the municipality can provide. It's, not least, serious. Overall, this demonstrates the importance of rehabilitation as part of the cooperation agreements between the health business and the municipalities, as a follow-up to the new law on municipal health and care services. It's a big challenge with too few ergot therapists in the municipalities. They are key staff in community health rehabilitation together with the permanent staff. Much of the growth in municipalities has to come in the years to come. The Storting is now addressing – in the Church, Education and Research Committee – a key message on welfare education. I want to highlight the importance of strengthening education in the field of rehabilitation. The Ministry must also look at the practice of granting the right to the necessary health care in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation, because there is so much variation from part of the country to part of the country. Thus, a small degree of clarity in the rights status of these patients can be achieved. Such variations in offers need to be changed for the better. We can't have such differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e705	Measurement of the extent and development of rehabilitation is demanding, as rehabilitation takes place at many stages and is carried out by many actors. Because we have changed processes in general, the way in which rehabilitation is given also needs to be changed. The crucial thing for me is that the individual patient gets the right treatment at the right time and in the right place. Knowledge of good quality rehabilitation is important both for individuals and for society. In order to get better services, as in other areas, we need to both devote enough resources to the community and dry down the necessary changes. I agree that good and equal availability and short waiting times for rehabilitation are important. This government has taken a number of measures to ensure good, equivalent offers to all people in need of rehabilitation. Among other things, the national strategy for habilitation and rehabilitation in 2008–2011 addresses key areas for strengthening the field. This was mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008. A number of measures have been put in place to follow up the strategy and the rehabilitation field, including: an action plan for the rehabilitation of children and young people and a guide to individual plan requirements. I have commissioned the Health Directorate to develop a national framework for the quality indicator system in healthcare. This is followed up with a view to developing several new national quality indicators. In 2011, the new national quality indicators on cancer care and survival came. Purchases of services by private institutions have increased since the responsibility of regional health care companies was assumed. Figures from regional health enterprises show that funds used for the purchase of services from private rehabilitation institutions have increased from 995.8 million. SEK in 2005 – which was the last year these institutions were financed from the social security budget – to SEK 1 524.5 million. kr in 2011. Figures from the Norwegian Patient Register show that the number of stays in these institutions has increased from 28 425 in 2006 to almost 40000 in 2011. Some of the increase is due to increased daily provision, which has also been mentioned here. It is difficult to measure the extent and quality of habilitation and rehabilitation in a good enough way. This is due, inter alia, to: that these are processes involving many actors, including those outside the healthcare system, such as the training seat and the Nav. Rehabilitation in the community health service is very central and often requires good cooperation with the specialist health service. In the field of specialist health services, services are provided both in departments for physical medicine and rehabilitation, in other departments and outpatients, through outpatient teams and through the learning and mastering centres. In addition, regional health companies buy services from private individuals, as I have mentioned. This diversity is important in order to provide the best possible rehabilitation services, but obviously makes it complicated to record all activities carried out in the field of rehabilitation. In municipalities, annual work is recorded in health and care services, but not the tasks they have. It provides demanding statistics when we know that the same personnel provide both treatment and rehabilitation. In the specialist health service, including in the private sector, day-care and outpatient clinics are also more common in the case of rehabilitation. Therefore, measuring bed capacity does not provide a comprehensive picture of the overall rehabilitation offer. Rehabilitation is more often included as an integral part of hospitalisation. This too is a desired development, but is difficult to measure. In the mission document of the regional health enterprises, I have clarified that the provision in the field of rehabilitation and rehabilitation should be relevant and adequate, comprehensive and coordinated. The aim of the interaction reform is to contribute to integrated and coordinated services. This is central to a rehabilitation process. The interaction reform means that a greater part of the tasks must be done in the municipalities. This will have an impact on how the rehabilitation tasks are to be addressed in the healthcare sector. By virtue of the Health and Care Services Act, municipalities and health businesses are required to conclude cooperation agreements. The agreements shall include, inter alia: contain guidelines on rehabilitation for patients in need of coordinated services. Professional development has led to changes in the field of rehabilitation. This is good, but it makes us have to look at all kinds of offers to get a proper idea of the development. There has been a positive development in this area. The government will continue to strengthen this area so that all those in need of rehabilitation will receive an offer tailored to their needs. I will present a big message later this year where I am discussing quality and patient safety, including how to measure quality and stimulate the best possible development in the different parts of healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e728	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e742	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee opened a case on some aspects of the merger process at Oslo University Hospital on 17 January 2012. It was the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party that initiated the creation of the case. The background to the initiative was that a number of critical issues had emerged over time through the media, linked to parts of the merger process at Oslo University Hospital. The Committee chose to focus on three issues in particular: first, on Clinical Workplace and ICT – better known in the media as the ICT scandal at Oslo University Hospital – second, on patient safety and, third, on managing the merger process. In the course of the committee's proceedings, TV 2 revealed what appeared to be an extensive waiting list shock at the OUS. This was also a separate theme in the Committee's examination of the matter. There was also a separate verification hearing in the case. It is important to limit the matter to only those matters. This is not an evaluation of the merger process or an attempt to stop the process. The starting point is that an overall increase in time agreed to address the capital challenge and found that it was not acceptable that the Oslo area was divided between two health regions. However, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee may initiate any administrative inquiry, including in the course of the implementation of public projects. I owe it to draw attention to the fact that the government parties have their own comments to a large extent. I guess they'll come back to these themselves, even though many of their particular remarks coincide with the opposition's comments. In this presentation, therefore, I will continue mainly to deal with the presentation of the majority remarks, which in our committee and in this matter mean the comments of a total opposition. Oslo University Hospital is today one of Scandinavia's largest hospitals after the merger. Before the merger, the different hospitals had different ICT systems. The ICT project Clinical work was the system that would enable the various systems to ‘speak together’, so that one could follow the patient, the journal, the x-ray, etc., from the entire hospital – regardless of location. This was seen as critical to the overall merger process and to ensure better treatment, better information flow and follow-up, while saving large resources. Although resource savings were not to be collected in money, the goal was to obtain more effect for each krona. During the monitoring consultation, one with today’s system – where this ICT system has not started – lost patients during treatment. So they disappear, some patients, and they don't have to follow up. It is serious, and the majority ask the Council of State to instruct the health business, if necessary, in order to put these matters in order. I'll get closer to it later. The medical association also claimed that about 40 years of work were used to transport different patient information between different parts of the hospital, because the units are located in several locations in the Oslo area. Even at the time the agreement was concluded with the supplier of the new ICT system, it was clear that there was a high level of uncertainty about the project. However, the acquisition was made by the regional health enterprise, despite what many would consider to be strong warnings. The regional undertaking was in control of the entire procurement process, and when Oslo University Hospital used the framework agreement, the health region continued to control development by setting up its own group director, Steinar Marthinen, as director of Oslo University Hospital. This is a construction that appears to be critical, and I am pleased that this is an organisational model that is no longer in use. The acquisition of a Clinical Workspace took place in December 2009. It appears clear that one of the main purposes of the acquisition was to ensure Oslo University Hospital the possibility of a common ICT platform. It was crucial for the solution that it was in place on 1 July 2010, what is called day two in the merger process. It quickly became clear that this timetable was coming up. Since then it turned out that the delivery could not be used in line with the assumptions, and in April 2011 the entire project was completed. Oslo University Hospital lost approx. 119 million. kr directly on the process, but the greatest loss has, of course, been in terms of less efficiency and reduced patient treatment compared to the original plan. The majority of the Committee cannot see that effective measures were in place to remedy the delay. The majority therefore believe that the so-called scandalous acquisition is the responsibility of the regional health business. It helps little that the CEO tries to point downwards at Oslo University Hospital. There she herself sat with full control through her group director as chairman. Of course, if this should have consequences for those involved, it is up to the Minister of Health, as she herself pointed out in the hearing, who is responsible for everything in the healthcare system, and it is an important part of this management responsibility that one ensures that the necessary competence is in place in all parts of the organisation. I'm now going to say a little bit about patient safety. It is important for health care confidence to be at the lowest possible risk for the patient. It is a serious signal when health director Lars E. Hanssen in the hearing can tell us that healthcare in Norway is generally at too high a risk. This means in clear text that it is more dangerous to receive treatment in Norwegian hospitals than it should be. The level of risk at Oslo University Hospital is even higher than the overall level of risk, but, at the same time – and this is to be taken into account – it turns out that the number of actual errors is not as high as the level of risk could suggest. That's positive. Thus, even if a driver is at high risk, this does not necessarily mean that there is a link between the high level of risk and the number of specific and actual hospital errors. There are still a number of cases for the treatment of the county doctor in Oslo and Akershus, and County Petter Schou gave some serious examples of these cases in the control hearing. The majority ask the State Council to report back to the County Medical Committee on serious findings in its studies of individual cases at Oslo University Hospitals associated with the migration process. There's also reason to be aware of that 94,4 pst. by the nurses of Oslo University Hospital, the migration process is considered to be in breach of patient safety. 71.7 pst. the nurses themselves are aware of specific circumstances that compromise patient safety as a result of the migration process. There is also more than half of the nurses who believe that there is a fear culture in Oslo University Hospital, which makes it difficult to report errors. These are very alarming and serious signals from the nurses. The majority would like the Council of State to report back to the Storting appropriately on how this is being followed up and tried out. Then I'll say something short about the government of the department. It is a challenge in the governance system we have for Health Norway, that it is easy to point fingers up or down when unpleasant things happen in hospitals or in regional health companies. This is a kind of compromise model, and it shows some weaknesses. With today's government, we have in many ways entered into a kind of formality governance, where the Council of State acknowledges formal responsibility, but pushes down the real responsibility. The model is designed in many ways for disclaimer, and the losing party becomes the patient. I am aware that a case has recently been brought before the Stortinget that concerns me, among other things. these issues and are now being addressed in the Health and Care Committee. For the Progress Party, I want to support the governance model we have today, subsidiaryly, but it is a question of whether it is not time to evaluate the way our health care system is managed, overall, to make it more efficient and responsible. It is not intended that the governance model as such should lead to political paralysis. In this case, it has become clear that the Minister of Health eventually increased the frequency of follow-up meetings with the regional health business. Nevertheless, it took a long time for the Council of State to understand the extent of the problems of Clinical Workplace. It also appears that she was not very up-to-date when she answered questions to Stortinget from the representative Laila Davøy about this. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that there are good enough procedures to keep the Council of State up-to-date on critical aspects of the migration process at the OYS. In my opinion, it may seem that something has failed here. The majority believe that this must lead to a review of the procedures of the Council of State in this area. It is essential for large conversion processes that management is clear and clear, while at the same time being in charge of employees and ensuring the safety of patients in a good way. The majority believe it is important that the board of directors now do what the Council of State said during the hearing, namely assess the pace and order of the conversion process, and that this is included in the further process. TV 2 revealed that Oslo University Hospital made changes to the waiting lists for patients with a deadline breach who complained that the deadline had expired. In practice, this was done by offering treatment to the patient at the OUS and thus sneaking past other patients, regardless of whether the other patients needed more treatment. The TV 2 report claimed that there were economic reasons for these changes, and that there were several middle managers who strongly criticized the practice. These also showed that this was reported upwards to the management of the service path. In the audit hearing, this practice was confirmed by the Medical Association and the Nursing Association. The group audit at Oslo University Hospital has reviewed the matter and made a report to the board. The Management Board has not yet dealt with the matter fully and the Committee asks for feedback from the State Council on how this is to be followed up. The group audit report shows that, in some cases, the re-priority of patients revealed by TV 2 is within the scope of the current legislation, provided that the so-called gaps are filled in planned operations, so that it does not actually affect other patients. The committee also asked to know about the top management of the hospital was familiar with the practice. The studies show that neither at board level nor at CEO level evidence has been found that some of these were familiar with this practice. The Committee also stresses that it is primarily the hospital’s responsibility to prevent temporary interruptions and that it is not acceptable that patients with a high level of resources are treated more quickly than those with a low level of resources with the same diagnosis and need for health care. The Committee has also understood that the group audit indicates that the legislation is unclear and the legal elements are fragmented. This is a very unfortunate and in many ways serious situation. A Joint Committee therefore asks the Council of State to come back to the Storting with proposals for amended legislation preventing a practice that adversely affects patients’ rights. In addition, the Committee would like to have been informed of the final examination of the audit report by the Management Board of Oslo University Hospital. Then I record that the sitting board focuses heavily on this issue. That's important, and that's good! So to sum up the map: It was a solid loss of health region south-east to conclude the framework agreement with Logic, which resulted in the loss of approx. 119 million. kr plus loss of effectiveness at the expense of patient safety. Responsibility lies with the regional health enterprise — at the top level of the management. There is generally an excessive risk level of hospitalisation in Norway, and the risk is even greater in Oslo University Hospital during the transition. Nevertheless, there has not been any evidence of any specific indebtedness. However, there is a lot of criticism that is not irresponsible in the sense of the law. The governance model for Health-Norway must not lead to political disclaimer and lack of political initiative and governance. And finally, the Council of State has to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a new regulation, as I just mentioned, for the prioritisation of patients and deadlines that do not adversely affect patients' rights. This is a matter with quite a number of serious facets. The criticism promoted, partly by the majority and partly by the Committee as a whole, is serious, and I expect that the points we make in the case will help to ensure better coherence between progress and the actual process of aggregation. There is no one – and I want to make that clear again, no one – who will reverse the merger, but everyone is concerned that we also have a proper process, where employees and patients are taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e809	I would say, as the rapporteur also stressed, that the entire Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and I believe the whole of the Stortinget, will underline the importance and seriousness of this matter. It's about a big project. It's about patient safety. It's about patient treatment, and it's about Oslo University Hospital's future. I agree with the considerations that the rapporteur initially had on the background that this became a matter for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I also say, so to speak, that the entire committee has always fully agreed that it was necessary to review the processes associated with the development of Oslo University Hospital. I'll start my post by saying four things. Firstly, I believe that the hearing we had has helped to shed light on the situation at the hospital in a very good way. It has given us insights into the complexity of the merger, and given us a better and clearer and more accurate picture of the hospital than what we could read from various media essays and performances from the opposition and some employees in advance of the hearing. Secondly, I believe that the hearing has also taken place, through inter alia: the opinion of the supervisory authorities that the patient safety of Oslo University Hospital is not at risk, even though it is said, as the case-rapporteur also said, that hospitals in Norway are being operated at too high a risk. It was also found that risk assessments should be carried out continuously, both in conversion processes and in day-to-day operations. Thirdly, the hearing has made it clear that the merger of hospitals in Oslo and the establishment of the OUS has been correct. It's a fact. I also noticed now that the case rapporteur said that no one believes anything else about it. It is nice that he says it on behalf of an overall opposition, as it has not always been what has been stated or indicated by representatives from the opposition – also in this room. At the latest in a hectic week before New Year’s, many suggested that the process needed to be slowed down and questioned the correctness of the entire structural change. Fourthly, the consultation has also shown that there is a great deal of consensus among organisations, management, former management, supervisory authorities and the state councils that there is no need to stop, brake or press the break button, as I have already said, many people spoke for a while. All of this is important, and all of this I'm happy for. At the same time, there are other things that have emerged in this process that I am not so happy about. Before the merger, the different hospitals had, as it was said, different ICT systems for patient information management. The now much-discussed ICT project Clinical work – as has been said – was intended to ensure that the different ICT systems at the hospital had a common platform for consistent patient follow-up. Several of those who participated in the open hearing, underlined, as everyone has done, the importance of putting in place what is thus called clinical work, both to coordinate patient treatment and to ensure a good basis for good interaction. In a modern society, it is not difficult to imagine that it will of course be very challenging to operate efficiently if the ICT systems do not work properly. Therefore, it is clear that better technological solutions will facilitate conversion and organisational development. Although a so-called clinical work force was not the prerequisite for the merger with the OUS, I ask myself, how is it possible that it has taken so long to put in place what so many in our days would seem to be a matter of course for an organisation of this kind to work? It's a very central question that very many people have reason to ask themselves. There's no one who accepts that that's the way it is. I hear no one saying that, not by those who are represented in the lodge here, or by those who sit with responsibility in the hall. I then talk about both us representatives and the government representatives. No one really accepts it. But nevertheless it happens, and there is reason to ask yourself a very open and honest question about it. It is absolutely necessary, as the rapporteur said – and I agree – that you really take this in and do something very active with it. The need to put in place an ICT system that works came very clearly in the hearing, and I expect the new director, Bjørn Erikstein, to hear this clearly where he sits, and that he takes that responsibility in a concrete way. Of course, that does not mean – and I agree with the rapporteur – that the Council of State does not have its own responsibility for this. I am also aware that Health South-East has a responsibility for this. But it is the operational management of Oslo University Hospital that, of course, has to put pressure on this case, handle it and put it in place, so that we do not experience new scandals related to the establishment of these things. So to this with the waiting lists. It was TV 2's reports that told us about it. It is a concern in itself that the media were going to provide this information. I don't criticize the council and the government for that, but I'm just saying here – with my commitment and the seriousness of it: how is it possible that management didn't know about these things? We asked about it at the hearing. I asked the director of patient safety about that, after the doctors' association' representatives had confirmed that they knew it, after the employees' representatives said that they had been up-to-date for years – that's exactly what they said. And then the management says they didn't know it! It bothers me a lot. I take note of what is said in the group report, that the directors did not know about it, i.e. the present ones. I'll take note of it, but I'm surprised. It's quite obvious to me that when it's true that they didn't know, there must be a problem in the structure that they don't know. In an organisation representing 20,000 people, it is not possible that management does not know about a practice that is of the category described in the call. It's obvious that there have been things that are not going to happen here. I refer to the setting. In this respect, I also refer to what the rapporteur said, namely that of course this is not acceptable. What is important now is what the Council of State has written in a letter to the Committee, that the Council of State should now enter into the law, go into what may be of regulation and practice, and ensure that we have a law, regulation and practice that ensures that there is equal rights in the treatment of all patients in Norway. We can't accept anything else, and I don't think there's any disagreement across all the party divisions in this hall at this point. We're just going to have to put that in place. If this is a problem with practice, it must be dealt with. If there are difficulties in managing Oslo University Hospital management in this regard, it needs to be addressed. If there are difficulties with the law, as it is also presented in the group audit, it must be addressed. There's the Storting's message at this point. I'm glad, because it builds up under what is at least my party's thinking at all patient treatment in Norway: it's going to be fair, and it's going to be equal. We can't have any roundabouts around it, to put it straight out. Using the law in a creative way to get it done, I say here – at least from my point of view – that I do not accept it. If that is also the case in other hospitals, as it is said to be, I would say that it is obviously as unacceptable as it must have been in Oslo University Hospital, and that I expect it to be handled in the way I have now said. Of course, it is very important that we generally deal with what is associated with a breach of time, even if it has not been directly within this case in particular, namely a breach of deadlines in general. It is very important that we do what we can to ensure that hospitals in Norway deal with this matter in general. In order not to get too far, I'm just stressing it from here. We have to deal with the deadlines, so that we in Norway are able to treat patients as we are determined, and as we here from the Stortinget have built up the Norwegian healthcare system in order to have effective and good management – the deadlines need to be reduced, and people need to be treated in time. As mentioned, and as everyone has understood, the representative Anundsen also said, the patient must be in the centre. Patient safety is, and should always be, the most important thing. I would like to make it clear that it is absolutely necessary for patients, and for the trust in healthcare, that management and health care staff have full attention to the patient’s needs and safety — both in normal operation and, of course, to an even greater extent in everything related to migration processes. A key point, which the rapporteur also raised in the hearing, was precisely the question of patient safety being adequately addressed at Oslo University Hospital. That is why both the district board in Oslo and Akershus and the director of the Health Authority were asked very carefully about this. There we heard both the State Health Authority and the county doctor in Oslo and Akershus tell us that they have been involved in several cases related to Oslo University Hospital and the hospital conversion, but they say – and I say that in contrast to what the case rapporteur said – that they have not, in all the cases they had concluded until then, ‘ended that there is irresponsible operation’. I was very careful to take that matter up in the hearing. Because it is quite obvious that if the supervisory authority had said in Stortinget – either the county doctor, or even the director of the Health Authority – that there is irresponsible operation that endangers the patient safety of the hospital, we would have had a big problem. But they didn't say that, they said the opposite. They said, no, we can't say that. This is an important point to make – they said the opposite. I may be a little unfair to the case rapporteur now, and if I am, I'm going to put it aside. If we agree on that, it's good, but I thought I heard he said the opposite. If we agree on it, as I see he's now nodding or shaking his head, whatever I say, it's okay. Then there is agreement on this in this room, and it is of great importance for the matter. I also think it is of great importance for those who have the operational responsibility for the operation at the hospital. So, of course, it's worrying, what was said by the Health Authority's Director, that we generally have too much risk. When the top supervisor said that, I was a little squirming. It may be the case, but I can't judge whether that's true or not, and what's really in it. But at least it's not a bigger problem associated with this at Oslo University Hospital than it is in general. I also say this politically, even though I'm not trying to be so party-political here. I have been sitting in this room and heard representatives from the opposition use patient safety against the conversion process and asked for a break. Now it's quieter in the living room, I don't hear much about it now. I take it seriously, but that is not the basis for saying that this qualifies for a break, or criticise the structural changes in the transition as such. That's an important political point. If, through this treatment, we can get rid of it, at least this matter has had great political significance, because it supports the views of the government and the majority on what the structure really has meant. This is important to be told, at my discretion. In the end, something the case rapporteur was also talking about, that is, what is related to what you can call the mentality of work, at Oslo University Hospital. It is disturbing, of course, that one sits – a little solemnly, but nevertheless – in a parliamentary hearing and represents the Norwegian Medical Association, represents the Norwegian nurses and represents the other employees and says that part of the culture is a culture of fear, where one does not dare to say what you mean, because then one can risk getting fired. That's exactly what they said. Of course, getting such information — a major challenge — from one of Norway’s largest jobs is a major challenge for the Stortinget. I'm not saying it's completely true, what's said, but I can't say it's not true. What I can say from my point of view, as a member of the Stortinget, is that I expect this to be handled. I expect that our Council of State can give the necessary directives to those with operational management related to this, so that we can put an end to it. Because there is something that is not effective, it is if there is no anchoring among the employees in the conversion in such a structure as this. Then it's never going to go. It's a clear management responsibility, of course. It must be handled by management. That's my last message: it's necessary to get hold of this. I say like you say after you have made such posts as this, but that is very serious: it can be said that everything in all is going very well for Oslo University Hospital. Patient safety is in place, and the structure is on its way. There's a lot left, and it's a formidable problem. But if management deals with it properly, we get this done. We're going to, with a little bit of time, get a great hospital. That is what must be the objective of this audit hearing. But then we have to effectively clear away the things that slow down such a development, and that can prevent the hospital from becoming a successful project in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e858	Let me start by referring to the rapporteur's comments, and also to the last one, which had such a width that one can always agree with some of the things that were said – both the concerns and the very optimistic conclusion. I have to say, I don't share any of the extremes. I don't think a control hearing can guarantee us a good hospital. I'm sure of that. But it can illuminate part of the process, and it has. The consultation and discussion itself in the committee brought a little further on the process. I agree that it gave a holistic and interesting picture of the process, but little new, except what came about by chance at the end of the hearing. I'll come back to that – it's about waiting list jacks. If I'm going to try to give an idea of why it's gone partially wrong, why the process has been more complicated and more challenging than necessary and also put patient safety at risk – not more than that, but there have been problems – I have to say that there are three factors that I think count with. The most obvious thing is that the ICT system should be in place first. I agree with Mr Kolberg. It went wrong in all sorts of ways. It's kind of strange, because the Norwegian public sector has a series of scandals to point to and could have learned from the scandals. In terms of health and social protection, a series of acquisitions of ICT systems have been made that have gone awry and cost a lot of money. It would have been possible to learn either from these or from other hospitals where things have gone well. There are also examples of the latter. Health South-East has therefore chosen an organisational form for its own ICT acquisition. I see little reason for that, and it's obviously a major cause of the problems that came to light later. The second was that, in retrospect, one should have had more of the building integration in place before the merger process was started. Many old buildings have been worn out, inappropriate location and departments that have worked in different places. It has created many practical problems. It would have been wise – in retrospect, I added it – perhaps to wait a little while to start the process and had more in place before the process was started. That was the second moment. The third element is more politically the responsibility of the Council of State. It had, I think, been wise if the council a little earlier had started its more intensive monitoring of the process. It's easy to say in retrospect. But at least the system is so that the Council of State has the ultimate responsibility and all the powers to give orders downwards. There's no doubt about it. You could say a lot about the system, but the government has the opportunity to give orders, so there's no doubt about it. The more intensive monitoring of the process had been an advantage that had started earlier. That's, in retrospect, what you might get wise on. Maybe you can learn a little bit from that. This is a process with an association that does not exist elsewhere in Norway — but something can be learned. I agree with Martin Kolberg also in two other observations. It is frightening to observe the total lack of communication that exists in a system in which employees claim that years after they have reported waiting list shocks, but have not been heard, and at the same time have been able to discover through the audit report that neither the two former directors nor the current director of the OYS have known, or have received reports. In other words, there's someone who doesn't speak the truth, or someone who goes around each other. Lack of communication is the most diplomatic presentation of what I think is possible to give. It also scares me, like the representative of Kolberg, that there is such a systematic fear culture in parts of the OYS as mentioned in the suspension and reported by the employees’ organisations. A fear culture is not a good basis for good communication, nor is it a good basis for good patient treatment. The waiting list jack did not appear as a result of the committee procedure, but as a result of a TV 2 report. It is possible that it was initiated by the Committee reading – this is often the case for news. It's scary to sit and observe that this appears from the media and not internally in the system. This should have been revealed in the hospital’s own system – not by the media. That has been said by the group audit, and I assume that the legislation is unclear and needs an overhaul. It is an overall committee that expects the Council of State to return to the Stortinget with proposals for an improved system and better regulation. It's hanging in the middle of nowhere. The legal framework must be so clear that it can be practised and, in addition, practices must be reviewed. Finally, it was the representative of Kolberg who said that there has been ‘suppliers in the living room’ – I assume that ‘stua’ is a transferred concept in the public space – about a break in the process. No one really wanted to pause on their own, but they've been alerted by the media that's been alarming. This consultation has confirmed and otherwise cancelled some reports. But it is at least that the Council of State has a responsibility to follow if she gets new reports from the Health Authority or from the County Board, simply to order a partial break. After hearing the Council of State on countless occasions in Stortinget, I believe to remember that she has explained that she is prepared to give an order for a different pace if it turned out that there was a basis for it. I would like to say that the Council of State has all the powers from Stortinget to possibly take a break in the process, if it turns out that the patients are affected. It is the professional reports of the professional bodies that need to be taken into account and not random media reports. That authority has been given to the Council of State, even though, on previous occasions, there has been an intensification discussion as to whether to set a lower pace. I perceive that the new management at the OUS has actually set a somewhat lower pace, by continuing within existing building mass and having a slightly lower ambition for pace. But I also see that the Council of State has a mandate from the Storting to follow closely the patient safety in all possible ways. And I put emphasis on what Kolberg also stressed: the participation of employees is absolutely necessary to make this process work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e881	I thought, to comment on Foss at the last point, that the Council of State is following this matter in a good way and with the intensity that I expect. At the same time, it's the board of directors and the directors who have the main responsibility. This is why, among other things: what our State Council is doing with regard to waiting lists and legislation. It's very central that one goes through it, to avoid similar things happening again. Then one is kind of dealing with the situation itself. What matters to all of us in the Biggest, I think, is that we have to have a fair system that people trust. Then there's a whole central one there's not going on cheating and fantasy in this system. Of course, it applies to all hospitals; it does not only apply to this hospital. So I want to also problematize this with ICT. Why is it that one doesn't get this? This is not only true of the hospital sector; it also applies to other sectors that are struggling to achieve ICT solutions. Does it have anything to do with supply policy? Is there something to do with responsibilities powdering? It would be very good if someone knew what the problem was, and could tell us that we have to do it and that. In a way, you're looking for something that doesn't really work out, so someone has to be clear about what we politicians have to do to get an ICT system in the public that works. And so it's important, as many people have said, that if there's a very unculture in this system, where people slander each other, where there's fear of being laid off, etc., it says itself that it's going to be very ineffective. As other speakers, I argued that here, the lease must be brought in and made sure that this unculture ends, so that one can have confidence in the system, so that the trust and cohesion that we have at that time will lead to more effective treatment and more of the money that we spend on the hospital system. Let me say from the SV page that we support the dimensions and the direction this conversion has. Therefore, it was also important, as one heard in the hearing, that the trade unions also support this. It applies to trade unions, and it applies to the Medical Association and other associations. They will be happy to continue with this project. Then we have to follow it up, because this merger has actually been carried out. But now we have to keep up the speed of the further work. One should not run so fast that it becomes dangerous, for one must take care of patient safety. That is the most important thing in this matter. They must be fully focused on this – I just need to underline 100 pst. At least it is a little satisfying when both the County doctor in Oslo and Akershus and the Health Inspectorate said that the conversion process did not lead to any more errors and errors than before the start of the conversion. It's a little reassuring to listen, because here one could risk it actually was the opposite, but it's not. I just want to underline once again that in the further work, a great focus must be on patient safety. SV is very pleased that the government, as the Council of State also said in the previous case, is now following up the issue of quality and patient safety in a separate survey message that comes during 2012. Finally, I just want to say that we have a business model that SV initially did not want, but that's the model we have to keep going. Then it is important, as the Minister of Health does, to engage in the matter, but at the same time not take away from the board, directors and board of directors the responsibility they actually have. So we hope, as Kolberg stressed in his statement, that this merger, this merger, will be successful, and that this will benefit patients, because it's primarily those we're busy with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e900	The case concerns parts of the conversion at Oslo University Hospital – OUS. I want to start with: what was the plan for the new Oslo University Hospital? Well, it was a very demanding plan, it was a plan that included 20,000 employees, so no matter how the plan was to be implemented, it had a number of critical areas that it was difficult to predict in advance. However, some of the central features of the plan included: the closure of Aker hospitals, and 160,000 patients were to be transferred to Ahus. It has probably come too little that some of the whole prerequisites for the construction of Ahus were just this transfer of patients, so that Ahus could act as a whole quality and economical within the framework given. It is something we can learn from in all new construction projects that one presents the whole truth – all the consequences – of such large new buildings, so that all those involved are aware of the prerequisites for this to work professionally and economically. Furthermore, the plan was that one would combine double solutions, as it was within the Oslo area, and thus obtain savings gains. There were further operations in many places, about 50 in practice, and it was then necessary to move together to get some coordination gains. In the capital process, as described in government case 108/2008 from Health South-East, an important premise was to decentralise it as one could, to other hospital areas in Health South-East. One was to combine parallel professional environments in Oslo and avoid double resource use, one was to professionalise at national and regional level, while Oslo was to use relatively less resources. This was to be combined with the fact that the area around Oslo was to become stronger with several patients, primarily Ahus and Västre Viken. This matter in the Control and Constitutional Committee is not an evaluation of the process, but a discussion of three themes, which have been discussed by many, such as Clinical Workplace/ICT, patient safety and the department's management of the merger process. With regard to Clinical Workplace/ICT, I think that both the representative Kolberg, the case rapporteur and the representative Foss have said in a good way what is my opinion, namely that we are very surprised that one could come in such a situation that this did not come into place, and when it did not come into place, that one could not use existing solutions in a fully-fledged way until one came out better. When we're going to go through these issues, it's hard to do it without looking at the whole thing. In my opinion, when the merger process has not improved this year, it has a bearing, inter alia, on: the lack of communication in the ICT improvement, which was not realised, the lack of physical management at different levels within the hospital, and a ‘top-down’ management, or in good Norwegian top-down management. Then it is difficult to get the employees along, because many strong and skilled professionals are happy about their work, and such top-down management we know, as the representative Kolberg and others were in, will not work – and thank you and thank you for that! Furthermore, there was no impact assessment for a number of the merger proposals, and therefore the benefit is not taken out either. There was also a lack of capital for investment, and the conversion took longer than initially estimated. In the case of tricking with the waiting lists in case of a deadline break, the reason for this, in my opinion, is that one at the hospital did not want to incur any additional costs by the patients choosing other hospitals. As others have said, it is very strange and alarming that management did not know about it. That's all it is to say, it's strong enough in itself. In terms of patient safety, a fragmented data on what it is. Data on quality in Norwegian health services are too weak. Today's patient safety measurement looks at individual parameters, which are selected and do not give a complete picture. At the same time, employees relate to matters of relevance to patient safety. The Minister of Health therefore has too little data to comment on the safety of patients. Furthermore, with regard to patient safety, the knowledge centre, an investigative unit in the Directorate for Health, is now playing a central role. Notices of events have now been transmitted from the Health Authority to this knowledge centre. This is a very extensive effort to put in place procedures where we get better knowledge of patient safety. No mergers go painless, no mergers can be presented as glossy images or success, because it is very complicated. It is unwise to make it a political success in advance, and one must say that such a merger costs money in the short term. People who stand out with critical remarks must be included in a completely different way by the management of the hospital in the work to improve Oslo University Hospital. It is my opinion that the new management of the OUS now actively contributes to this change in the culture of working life, which is very important. I expect the Council of State has affected this in the annual letters of assignment to the boards, which are good. It is important to have a local management where all hospital functions are included, where budgetary responsibilities and staffing are included, and also that every employee must know who is the nearest supervisor. Finally, I would like to say that the establishment of the OUS would help to slim down the specialist health service in Oslo, while at the same time being eaten up in tasks – i.e. both better quality of treatment and to decentralize what you can, mainly to Aarhus and West Viken. The idea of establishing the OUS was good, but far more demanding than an understanding. We have to remember: the combination of the Rikshospitalet, the Radium Hospital and Ullevål is an old case. Very strong forces have disagreed with this. Therefore, it is difficult to move medical positions to e.g. Ahus and Vestre Viken. Finally, a relationship that shows how demanding such a conversion is: with a free hospital choice for the individual patient, it is an offer-driven specialist healthcare service. When there is a good offer in Oslo, it is difficult to fund a decentralised patient offer by building a better and wider offer outside. It is difficult to finance such build-up by reducing guest patient costs when patients continue to apply for Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e936	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good presentation of what this matter is about. I would also like to stress that the Christian People's Party's commitment to this matter is not about us wanting to reverse the conversion process in terms of Oslo University Hospital – that is what they say. That we have arranged to slow down has just been because of the feedback we have received both via the media and through direct enquiries that things are going too fast. But as I said, this isn't about that we want to reverse this process. In fact, there is a broad consensus that this aggregation is of the good. Our aim in merging was to improve the coordinated supply and use of resources, and this also benefits patients. There are, however, three concerns that we have raised through the Control Committee. That is what is involved in ICT bet, patient safety and, of course, the governance of the Council of State in relation to the entire project. With regard to the ICT scandal, as one chooses to call it, the different hospitals before the merger had different ICT systems for patient information management. The project Clinical Workplace was intended to ensure that the various ICT systems could talk together so that one got a patient follow-up system across the entire merged hospital. In the open hearing that we had, several of those who were heard underlined the importance of the Clinical Workplace. They said it was a premise for the merger of the hospitals. Aasmund Bredeli said the following about this: ‘This was quite fundamental – I would say – in order to communicate between hospitals, and when you start moving patients and also people between hospitals, it goes without saying that we do not have information available where the patients are at all times. We get a loss of information, we get a discontinuity in this, and it will ultimately affect patient safety." This is so serious, and it is so strongly underlined how important such a Clinical Workplace is for the system to function well enough in a merged hospital. Several people followed up with one of the same things, including: The trade union, which thought that it is “a part of the hospital’s heart to have a KA system that works and communicates across”. So it's unfortunate that this ICT bet stranded as it did. So we've wasted over 100 million. kr out of the window without getting any things back. I really hope that this is something that both Health South-East, Oslo University Hospital and, of course, the Council of State will follow closely in the future, because this is something that needs to be done, not least for patient safety. So it's this with patient safety. As the rapporteur also said in his statement, it is important for health care trust to be at the lowest possible risk for patients. It was obviously more than I was concerned when the director of the State Health Authority, Lars E. Hanssen, in the inspection hearing said to the committee: ‘But it is important to take into account this consultation that the supervisory authority considers that healthcare in Norway is generally operated at an excessive risk level.’ It's worrying. He also said: ‘We have looked at this in more detail, for example: when we moved into Ahus, where we went very thoroughly and looked at the risk analyses that had been made, and whether they were satisfactory based on what we believe. And we didn't think they were." The rapporteur has now been involved – and I would also like to stress – that there is not necessarily a link between high risk and the actual number of errors. We're going to take that recognition with us. We have registered a number of headlines in the media where claims have been made that the patient safety of Oslo University Hospital fails. Now we have not dealt with individual cases, apart from the fact that we relate to the information given to the committee, among other things. through the inspection hearing, and there also mentions the county doctor in Oslo and Akershus, Petter Schou, this both in general and from some specific cases he has treated following complaints from patients or relatives. The county doctor in Oslo and Akershus has been involved in a number of issues related to Oslo University Hospital and the hospital conversion process, and we also notice that Schou felt that there was an increased risk of brain stroke treatment, and that the offer to children with so-called "shunt" is irresponsiblely organised. Schou also said in this hearing: ‘We have also recently had to conclude that the Radiology and Nuclear Medicine Division is being operated at an excessive risk of patient safety failure and that this could probably have led to irresponsible operation for major or minor periods of time.’ However, it is quite correct, as Martin Kolberg said in his statement, that the supervisory authorities do not conclude that there is an irresponsible operation at Oslo University Hospital, but they point to the increased risk. Through the Norwegian Association of Nurses, we have been told that patients disappear during the course of treatment. It's quite shocking if it's the case that people disappear in the course of treatment because you don't have an ICT system where hospitals can talk. I really hope that this is something that both hospitals, Health South-East RHF and the Council of State take on, because we cannot live with this in Norwegian hospitals – that patients disappear in the course of treatment. To what has been discussed by many, the studies carried out by members of the Norwegian Nursing Association. on the fear culture to be found in Oslo University Hospital, if any. In a hearing related to a proposal for a representative, 24 S for 2011–2012, the president of the Medical Association, Hege Güssing, said that people no longer speak from. You do not take part critically in the discussions, because in the worst case you experience losing your job. I really hope that management at Oslo University Hospital will take this into account, because such a culture of fear can clearly be involved in weakening patient safety. Nor can we have it in Norwegian hospitals. A little about the governance of the Council of State: we assume that the governance of the conversion process by the Council of State at Oslo University Hospital followed the normal follow-up procedure through the regional health company. However, we note that in the summer of 2011, the Council of State introduced a mechanism of more frequent follow-up meetings with Health South-East RHF, because parts of the process did not go as planned. We point out that these meetings were started about 12 months after the new ICT system was due to enter into force, and about 3-4 months after further delivery after the contract was cancelled. The Council of State explains the background to the increased frequency of follow-up meetings that there was insufficient progress in the preparation of new crew plans and that the project Clinical Work was not completed. I am pleased that the Council of State introduced more frequent follow-up meetings with the regional health company, but perhaps these frequent meetings should have been introduced at an earlier date. I would like to end by saying that, in general, in such important conversion processes as this, it is incredibly important that the Council of State is ‘hands on’ all the time – not least in order to maintain progress. I am also pleased that the Council of State also says that the pace of the further progress of the process must be guided by the challenges that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e991	A lot has been said in this debate already, so just a little short from someone who is not in the committee, but who has followed this matter with interest from the outside. The shift had broad political support in Stortinget, with the aim of improving patient treatment, through, among others, a wide range of policies. improved coordination and use of resources in the capital area. However, it has proved not to be that easy. The left-wing member of the Committee, as well as several in this Chamber, has been particularly concerned with three issues: the ICT system, patient safety and the alleged juxtaposition of waiting list patients at Oslo University Hospital. As regards ICT, the representative Trine Skei Grande, who is on the Committee, has asked the Minister for Health what the Council of State will do to ensure that new interaction projects in the field of image diagnostics between the Oslo hospitals do not have the same fate as the project Clinical Workplace. We have been told through the media several times that the merged Oslo hospitals do not have a system to share images after the end of the ICT project Clinical Workplace in May. There has been a lot of time and a lot of money here, so everything has to be done to ensure that this does not happen again. The council answered the question from Skei Grande: ‘Oslo University Hospital HF is working on finding other ways to merge the clinical systems. In the meantime, temporary solutions are in place to provide clinicians with access to patient information irrespective of their location, but these are less user-friendly. Health South-East RHF generally emphasises the re-use and experience of previously implemented projects, in order to ensure learning and increased competence and understanding of the challenges posed by large-scale ICT projects. In the case of ICT systems for the processing of image information in hospitals, Health South-East RHF now has an on-going acquisition process. This procurement process aims at achieving a permanent solution to meet the needs of all hospitals in the region.’» It is tempting to challenge the Council of State on how this work is going, because the question was asked six months ago. If the work is completed or in full operation, it may be signed who have not followed well enough. Patient safety is closely linked to ICT efforts, but also has other aspects. The outsider could not avoid getting the media statements about alleged cheating with waiting list patients, and that there were economic reasons for re-prioritisation, not health professionals, which was also the subject of the case rapporteur, and that a fear culture developed among employees. Of course, this is very serious. The ratios of employees are also closely related to patient safety. The employees’ signals – as I have seen it – are that there has been a lack of inclusion in the planning and implementation phase. This has proved to be too frustrating in the professional environments. It is also claimed that the absence of funding of the process is clearly visible in the budget and causes a great deal of pressure on the remaining ones. I have also heard that people are afraid to say so because of the concern that their position is being cut, something that the representative Kolberg and others have been involved in. The transfer of personnel, the exclusion of patients from other hospitals and the assumption of fewer patients from the OYS create problems when the same patients still want to go to the OYS. There is a complaint that the managers are barely visible, because they are in contact because of the process, and on patient records that are not communicated across borders, which I was at the beginning. In conclusion, I am aware that, in a speech on 8 May, the Minister of Health said that, in the autumn, she would present a big message on quality and patient safety – a message that will form the basis for work on quality and patient safety in the coming period. The Health Minister has asked for input, and I think it is important that employees are also heard. Satisfied employees are essential for patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1020	As Mr Kolberg said before, I believe that the open hearing on the OUS on 2 March has helped to shed light on the situation there in a good way. It has given us better insights into the complexity of the merging and given us a broader and more accurate picture of the OUS than we could read in the media, and hear in play from the opposition in the weeks before the hearing. The consultation has also made it clear that patient safety has so far not resulted in patient injury as a result of the switchover. Although it was said from the Health Authority that Norwegian hospitals are at too high a risk, the Council of State stressed in the consultation that risk assessment is something that should be carried out continuously, both in conversion processes and in day-to-day operation. Even I want to add that that's just how you can get an acceptable risk standard in our health care system. Another important thing we have been stressed emphasizing is that the merger of the hospitals in Oslo and the establishment of the OYS has been right. The hearing showed that all interested parties agree that there is no need to stop, brake or press the break button, as some have mentioned earlier. This is good and not surprising for me. But it's very important to recognize this for the further process. Nevertheless, there are some things that have a great potential for improvement and learning potential. The much-discussed ICT project Clinical Workplace should ensure a common platform for consistent patient follow-up throughout the OUS. It is obvious to me that such a comprehensive change process is difficult when basic ICT systems are not working. It is clear that improved technological solutions will facilitate conversion and organisational development. Although Clinical Workplace was not a prerequisite for the merger of the OYS, it was an important project that should have ended differently. The responsibility for the OUS conversion lies with the management of the OUS and Health South-East. The development of ICT systems for such an organisation is clearly a management responsibility. In working with the Clinical Workplace – as I see it – the former management of the OUS must take full responsibility. The same is true of the findings of a lack of staffing plans under the former OYS management. I am probably quite convinced that such a comprehensive change process requires good manning plans and a fundamentally good ICT system to get the necessary speed, support and enthusiasm from the stakeholders. When this did not come into place by the former management, this also, of course, helped to make the situation uncertain and uncertain for many of the employees. It doesn't create good and inclusive change processes. Some have claimed that the Council of State should have addressed this earlier. It is not the role of the Council of State to address details of ICT projects in a hospital or to ensure staffing plans. However, it is the role of the Council of State to remain informed about the risks, opportunities and limitations of such a comprehensive change process as this is, and it is the role of the Council of State in its governance dialogue to follow in and facilitate the development of the process in the right direction. I can't see that something has come up that suggests that the government council that owns should involve itself differently from what she has done – on the contrary, the case has shown that the council has been on the ball all the way. In the case of ICT, which is a very important area for the entire healthcare sector in Norway, this government rates ICT in the health sector. Major projects such as national core journals, electronic referrals, the introduction of eRecept and the further development of the national health portal are important areas. We know that the government is working on a new e-health notification in a digital everyday life, which is completed in 2012. This will be an important prerequisite for the development of ICT in healthcare in the future. The night before the hearing, we were probably all bewildered when, in a TV report, we heard allegations of extensive jokes with waiting lists at the OUS. The topic was duly addressed in the consultation, and we have also received a report from the OYS own group audit later on. The report confirms the impression that was made in the media that patients have been shifted from their position in the queue to the benefit of others, who were also entitled to treatment, and where the deadlines have expired. The report also states that the regulatory framework is complex, and it appears that there is a regulatory framework that is difficult to comply with. I need to be clear on this: we are not going to have it like this in Norwegian hospitals. The patient should come first, the patient should be in the center. It is quality and not economic gain or budgetary assessments that will form the basis for the treatment. It is the hospital's responsibility to prevent a breach of deadlines, not the individual's ability to call HELFO and complain. We should not have a system that provides resource-intensive patients with faster treatment than a resource-weak with the same diagnosis and the same need for health care. Before the hearing, we heard a lot of voices saying that patient safety has been compromised by the OUS. In the hearing, both the State Health Authority and the County Board of Oslo and Akershus could reassure us all. None of the matters related to the OUS, which they had concluded before, had ended with the fact that – as they said themselves – it was irresponsible operation. They could also tell us that the conversion process has not resulted in more errors and more mishandling than before the start of the conversion process. Furthermore — and this is important — at the hearing the Health Inspectorate confirmed that they recommended stopping the process. At the same time, the County Board of Oslo and Akershus confirmed that it is appropriate to continue the process of merging Oslo University Hospital. For the patients and the employees, it is important that the OUS in the further conversion process ensures that the operation and the change process takes place at as low a risk as possible and always with the patient's safety in mind. Therefore, they must, of course, have daily risk assessments. In the open consultation, the Council of State stressed that risk analysis is something to be done — not once, but all the time. I fully agree with that. At the same time, I believe that good patient safety is often about staffing and personnel management, working environment and safety, and how employees are able to report critical issues. Is it high enough under the roof to take the difficult things? There are questions about what has happened in the media. If the employees experience risks, management must take it seriously. During the hearing, it appeared that many people do not feel sufficient security at their workplace to address the difficult issues. Today's management must therefore follow this closely, and I believe that Norwegian hospital employees will experience a working culture of openness and trust, where there is security among managers and employees to deal with the difficult issues. It's good for the working environment, it's good for the patient experience and patient safety. Having said that, I believe that just the new management has already taken hold of this, because I am registering far fewer negative statements in the media now than before. Provided you have a good internal dialogue, this is good. Having said all this, it is necessary to say that the treatment results of the OYS are largely good — yes, not very good — despite some headlines in the media and some critical opposition voices. What's good, we're going to appreciate it. What's not good, we're going to fix it. So I want to add, before I finish, that this is the fourth time we've been dealing with the OUS question in this room since December. We had the State Budget Management, we had an interpellation debate, we had a Document 8 proposal – and there has been a whole lot of work in the Control Committee. One has to ask questions about whether we are contributing ourselves to creating uncertainty about the process of the OUS when we are constantly having a debate here in the Chamber whether we should continue or not. I wonder if many of the employees feel just that, that Storting is contributing to the uncertainty of their own project. It is at least important that we have this in mind further, because we know that conversion processes are demanding for everyone involved. OUS is complicated. It requires everyone's efforts to get it to – from directors and employees at all levels. It means involvement, cooperation, height below the roof and ability to fold up the sleeves. The management is always responsible in such processes for ensuring a common sense of reality for all parts of the organisation. Then each person has the responsibility to see its role as a whole to help achieve common goals, namely better and more coordinated patient treatment at the country's largest and best hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1064	This has been an interesting debate. Once the conversion in the capital area has been debated in this Chamber, there has been no lack of gloomy predictions. But both the hearing and I would also like to say the posts here today have shown that it is important and right to continue the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital. None of the speakers in the hearing on 2 March called for a reversal of the merger and a halt to the conversion work. I also take note of the fact that the entire committee wants the transition to continue. As many have said, there was basically broad political agreement on the necessary conversion. It is also the case that conversions are carried out throughout the country, not just at Oslo University Hospital. Medical and technological developments move limits on what we can treat. The population is growing, we're getting older, and the disease image is changing. At the same time, access to health professionals is limited. We are living in a time of economic turmoil in Europe, which means that the Storting too is confronted with demanding priorities of public funds. So we have to keep looking at how we use our resources for the benefit of patients. I believe that we, who are elected to political positions, are responsible for making changes, so that patient care is improved as development progresses. It's about how we use personnel, medical devices, buildings and technology, and how we use support functions. The results so far have shown that the changes in hospitals have been correct. Some have been involved with this with indicators and what we can measure. We don't have all the measurement parameters in place. The Health Directorate is working on developing more quality indicators, which of course we want to get in place, but some numbers we have. If we look at numbers from the Norwegian patient registry, they show that the waiting time for treatment is falling. Last year's OECD report shows that Norwegian cancer treatment has very good results in five years of survival. For cervical cancer, we are the best in the world, for breast cancer is the best in Europe, and for intestinal cancer we are well above the average for OECD countries. This is a significant improvement from previous years. In the past, Norway was mediocre, so now we're in the top level. It's not least the efforts of cancer doctors at Oslo University Hospital that make us have such good results. For strokes, we're number four after South Korea, Japan, and Denmark. For heart attack, we're number two. One of the main reasons for the good outcome of heart attack is that we have collected emergency treatment at Oslo University Hospital and five other places in the country. Oslo has also contributed significantly to the treatment of atrial fibrillation. In 2010, 458 treatments were carried out in Norway. This increased to 1,564 treatments at the end of 2011. I will praise all the skilled professionals who have made it possible to achieve such good results in such a short time. This type of improvement would not have been possible without conversions. Of course, I could draw up other examples of what you actually get at Oslo University Hospital, even if they are in a demanding transition. Among other things, they have the largest transplant centre in Europe. Oslo University Hospital causes Norway to be at the top of the world for transplants. 2011 was a record year with a total of 469 transplants completed. Several quality indicators show that Oslo University Hospital is on the right track in several areas. Capacity and quality have increased in several disciplines. The proportion of Corridor Asians has fallen from 2.4 pst. in the third tertiary 2010 to 0,9 pst. at the same time in 2011. So Oslo University Hospital is lower than the national average for hospital infections. This is good, but – as many people have been involved – there are also things that remain. There is no doubt that there will also be challenges in the future. It is difficult to bring together strong trade unions and to reconcile different ways of working and cultures. It is also demanding to facilitate this technological and physical. Too many employees this implies a new place of work or changed tasks. There is also no doubt that staffing plans, ICT – which has been discussed by many – have been lacking in budget discipline and the management of waiting lists for some patients. It is important that the new Board of Directors and the new management of Oslo University Hospital should be given peace and confidence to continue the conversion work with the employees. The main challenge in the field of ICT at the OUS is that there are too many systems that do not communicate well enough with each other. A lot of people have thought about it. Former owners have over several years allowed hospitals in the same city to develop and use systems that do not communicate well enough. This is particularly problematic now that medical developments are increasing the activity across hospitals. Oslo University Hospital is now implementing its ICT plan. The plan pays particular attention to the need to ensure common infrastructure, a common clinical information base and common administrative solutions. Patient safety shall remain at the top of the agenda. It is good that the county council is following up the concerns that are coming, and that the culture of reporting deviations is getting better and better. Electronic systems provide better opportunities for fault detection and correction. The detection of errors, as the group audit in Health South-East has done in the patient administration work of several health companies, shows that we have a health care system that traps and learns from it. That's how we have to work to achieve our goals. We know that there will also be errors in the future. I believe that the hearing and the information we have received in recent times shows that we are on the right track, but we cannot allow ourselves a single break. I follow up on the need to improve the management of hospitals. On Friday I made a proposal on changes to the Health Business Act. There, the government proposes several measures that are important for political and democratic governance and control of health businesses. Directives on the establishment of audit committees and internal audit shall contribute to sound risk management, internal control and quality control and will enhance the legitimacy of the internal audit. Lawmaking that the number of health enterprises and the geographical areas of inclusion of health enterprises is to be decided at national political level in the business meeting is one of the proposals. This case shows the importance of close political involvement in these kinds of processes, as many have said here today. I also suggest that the Ministry keep itself informed about the activities by collecting information from the RHF and holding reporting meetings, so that this becomes part of the law. These proposals show that the government is constantly working to improve governance in order to improve the quality of service and patient provision. The previous management made mistakes, and the new management will also certainly make some mistakes. We have to keep improving, but we have to stay awake to black paint a great hospital. I don't think it's done here today either. I'm glad, and that's why I like the posts that have been. So I'll comment on something that's been recorded. The case rapporteur, and I think everyone, was in on the waiting list and the work to improve the system, look at the laws and regulations. So let's do that. But there's something that's necessarily taking some time, so what we're obviously busy in the meantime, is getting down the number of deadlines. There is a breach of the deadline given to each patient who is really the reason why it can be done wrong, as it has been. At the same time, I would like to say that the matter is not closed. As the rapporteur said, the board is still holding on to it. Of course, I will report back to Stortinget appropriately about it. As far as ICT is concerned, I mentioned it earlier in the article. As regards the rate of conversion, I would like to say again what I have said many times: carrying out risk analyses is absolutely necessary. Taking action when it is seen that the risk is too high is also absolutely necessary. And there is no end date for when the aggregation of these hospitals is to be completed. Therefore, you have to use – as many people have been in it – the necessary time and do the conversion wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1101	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1104	In the case of waiting list shocks at Bærum Hospital, the State Council in Stortinget was to ensure that there was a review in all the regional health companies to ensure that this did not happen there. Now this case and the revelations related to it have shown that almost exactly the same thing happened at Oslo University Hospital. This was not revealed in the review requested by the Council of State to be carried out by regional health firms in the context of the Bærum case, despite the fact that almost all persons involved in the consultation of employees confirmed that this was notified upwards in the system. What is the Council of State's assessment of what has gone wrong, since the Council of State was not informed of this kind of fraud when she asked for a review in all regional health companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1111	What came out in the Bærum case was that it had moved on to the date of treatment. That is why I asked that all hospitals throughout the country do journal reviews to see if this was something that could also happen elsewhere. When making mistakes, one is not better than the other, even if the errors are slightly different, or if they have a slightly different value. That's why, of course, I'm very serious about it. Although the reason is that there have been different systems in a merger – the patient has been given the right to the necessary health care in one hospital that is involved in the merger process, and not on another one – the result has led to errors. The matter that is now under way is being cleaned up. It will be dealt with finally in the board, and I will report back to Stortinget when it is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1118	The representative, Bent Höie, is given the floor in Reply No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1121	In the hearing, the Health Inspectorate referred to the fact that, as early as 2008, in the context of the consultation document related to this process, they requested that an analysis be carried out of the specific patient courses and the most frequent conditions to ensure the quality of patient courses in the context of the reorganisation. The hearing found that at that time the Health Authority had not yet received a satisfactory response that this had been carried out, although the Health Authority had indicated that this was necessary in order to ensure a sound health service. Has the Ministry of Health ever asked, through the frequent contact with the company since 2008, whether the health company has fulfilled the Health Authority’s request for an analysis of the specific patient course?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1128	What has been very much stressed is that the conversion and the various parts of the conversion process must be done in a proper way. In this respect, it has not least been important to focus both on risk analyses and on taking action in relation to the risk analyses carried out. It is also the case that for each stage of this transition – for this is not just one difficult process that goes off-farm, and then it rolls – new analyses and adjustments and measures need to be made in relation to it. That's what I've been busy about. In terms of patient conduct, there is something you work with all the time in all the hospitals to make them as good and as optimal as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1135	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1140	As the rapporteur-general, I would like to say something at the end of the debate. Firstly, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I think there has been a debate that has in many ways highlighted the aspects of the matter on which we have been involved in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. And then the control perspective in Stortinget is once so arranged that we are very good at pointing out the critical things, or the things that have gone wrong -- that's kind of our job. That's why it might have been appropriate for the Council of State in its statement to also express what goes right in the Oslo University Hospital process, because it's part of a larger picture, even though we focus on what we've found the basis for criticizing something around. But there are many good results also at Oslo University Hospital, the employees who work there do a fantastic important job, and there is no doubt that this will eventually be a hospital that will play a crucial role in achieving the objectives we have in health policy in the Norwegian context. The main picture is that there is a very large degree of cross-political agreement, both about it – I think – and also about the findings that we have discussed in our attitude related to the four main issues. There are a few things I want to comment on. I do not know the general noise level in the living room of the representative Kolberg, but I understand that it has become calmer there. I think it might also be related to the fact that the state council's attitude to the process and progress is different now than it has been in the past. I think it was very good what the council said from the pulpit, where she said that it is necessary to take the time it takes to implement this conversion – without jeopardising patient safety – and that it may be necessary to breathe a little longer in some stages of the implementation process, so that one is sure that patient safety is not affected. I think that's a very good signal, and so did the Council of State in the hearing. It is important that it is also followed up by the hospital management. Then, too, some of the discussion distance – because there have been some nuances in the approach here – may be due to the fact that, of course, it is true that neither the county doctor nor the state health services have said that there has been irresponsible treatment – except for one case, I think, it appeared in the hearing. It has also been said in the verification hearing that it is a long distance from what is optimal, to what is irresponsible. Within it, that is, before it becomes illegal – because that is what is the point – and before it goes over the line where it is an unwarranted piece, it can be a great potential for improvement. That's what's been important to point out to some of us -- what some of the speakers have called noise, which I think is absolutely necessary for the opposition to actually contribute when it gets the kind of information we've got in the media in this case. I would just like to say briefly that I am recording that the representative Breen believed that it was not the role of the Council of State to follow up ICT projects and staffing plans at the hospital. I am pleased that the Council of State does not agree with that, because it was precisely these two conditions that were used to argue that there were more frequent follow-up meetings on the part of the Ministry, which I believe is right. Then we can agree or disagree if this happened at an early enough time. I believe that this could have happened earlier, but it was good that it happened. I also think the reason for that was right. Then I do not agree with a recital, which was perhaps suggested by the representative Breen, that Storting's involvement in this matter creates uncertainty at Oslo University Hospital. A lot of people want this room to be up to date. I think it is a good sign for Stortinget and Stortinget's topicality that you are engaged in the largest hospital merger in Norwegian history. I think it's important for employees to know that the Storting is concerned about what's happening at their workplaces, and that patients are aware that the Storing is concerned about their safety. I think it's just positive, and I hope for the future we'll still be present in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1153	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1167	It is the third year in a row that the Swedish Parliament's Committee on Control and Constitution deals with a document from the National Audit Office on the Nav, the Labour and Welfare Act, and it is also a unanimous position we are presenting this year, as we did last year, and well the year before. Nav managed in 2011 welfare schemes for around 300 billion. kr. Half of Norway’s population are in contact with the establishment every year, with a total of around 2.8 million users. It goes without saying that the performances managed by Nav affect and are of great importance to individuals and society as a whole. Nav is today the backbone of the welfare community. It is therefore important that the organisation has a functioning performance management and sound operational management that contributes to a positive development in terms of process times, residues and service to users. The Norwegian social model shall ensure all welfare, care, health, education and work. The interaction between public infrastructure and the provision of services on the one hand, and industrial development and private sector production on the other, is essential for the creation of value added and ensuring people's work. We know that the challenge of achieving good and efficient public sector service production will increase in the years to come, including: because we get more older, and we get higher requirements for quality, service and availability. The demand for services is high, both from the political system and from users. The requirement for the first line service is greatly increased, the pressure on the first line service is increasing, and the focus on the first line service is increasing. And that's where the users meet the public. The size – through our decisions – and the government, as an implementing body, is responsible for the organisation of the public sector for the benefit of its users. It is important that users do not meet the wall – not to say the door – when they go to a public office. It is also important that they do not have to go to more than one door and that they get through on the phone, that they get answers and a quick and sound procedure. It is essential for Nav’s credibility that the contactees experience a service-oriented and easily accessible first-line service. The situation in Nav's performance management is significantly better today than in the first few years. The total was 67 pst. of social security benefits treated in the normal period of 2011 and the proportion of issues treated in the normal period increased by 4 pst. from 2010 to 2011. Nevertheless, most of us here in the house are still contacted by people who do not get through on the phone, who do not receive a response, or who meet staff who lack knowledge and competence. I would like to show that the Stortinget has repeatedly stressed that the external Nav offices, i.e. the local offices, must have both the necessary competence and make simple decisions. The size has previously criticised the fact that both competence and authority have moved behind the scenes to the so-called administrative units. The result is that the first line service becomes damaged. But that's where the users come in, and that's where they meet Nav. The Committee therefore stresses the importance of following up the competence challenge. Document 3:10 for the 2011–2012 Riksrevisionen has investigated whether Nav has an effective use of resources in the performance management. It is important that the welfare seat has a management system that ensures good service and quality of service in the performance manager. But any management system must be used with reason – and this is something I say from this pulpit to the Riksrevision. The reality cannot be captured in any simple indicators. Nav is not a car repair shop or a chocolate factory, and New Public Management is hardly suitable for managing the Nav business. Qualitative targets are more difficult to follow up in current governance. The Committee believes it is important that the Directorate set up in December 2011 a service complaint system in the establishment, a system such as: include complaints during the course of proceedings, availability, conduct and routine failures. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Council of State will follow developments in this area in the future. The establishment of Nav was based on a welfare policy vision, with a first-line job and welfare management service as an important tool for achieving the objective of a comprehensive labour and social policy. A unanimous growth agreed with the premises of more people in work, fewer in social security, simpler for users and more efficiency. It has been a difficult process to implement this reform. We should really thank the employees for the willingness they have shown that 'we're going to do this'. I know several of them, and I also know trustees in this department. The employees have been chopsticks in the critique against Nav, and they deserve praise for the job of keeping the floor going for a demanding time. The childhood disease is now behind us. It has been six years since the merger and – as pointed out by the Committee – Nav actually carries out the tasks previously performed by the merged entities. That's why it's important now that the department works, and that we can put these childhood diseases behind us for good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1195	I would like to thank the rapporteur for her statement on the report and the Committee's comments. I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for this excellent report. I want to make some additional comments and comments. In the almost three years I have been a member of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the Stortingen, Nav has been a member of the Committee, both in the examination of Document 1 and in its own special reports and consultation. Before I arrived at Stortinget, I worked for a few years at a work office. Based on my experience there, and from the experience I have had as a local politician since 1987 and as a national politician since 1997, I think the idea of a common labour and welfare seat is fundamental. However, I had a reasoned assumption that a merger would be challenging – and it has become. The question is whether more could be done by politicians in order for this to be done better. I think so. The results so far cannot be said to be satisfactory. The Progress Party has programmed that we want to bring Nav and the co-localised social offices together into one office, and with one budget financed directly from the State budget. We think the best thing is to see all the schemes together and make sure that it's the same level of administration that pays for what the individual needs. It would probably be easier to achieve the main objectives of the Nav reform, which would create cooperation and integration on matters previously divided into two state bodies and municipalities. The creation of a single establishment would result in the dismantling of old storehouses and the establishment of a new professional role within Nav, based on the objectives of labour rights and user rights. Today's situation is that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare directs the state part of the department through two separate guidelines: the special unit line and the county line. The county line includes the Nav offices and the NAV Administration, which are the units of each state that cooperates in the work of the performance management. The purpose of the issue we are dealing with today has been to investigate whether Nav has established an effective use of resources in the performance management in the county line, and to identify organisational and management reasons why the use of resources varies between the counties. Despite increased resource frameworks, weak performance and lack of target achievement remain, and there are considerable variations in productivity and target achievement. Obviously, there is a potential for increased productivity and better resource use when the most productive county has a production per year of 47 pst. greater than the least productive state. Of course, this may be true, but good productivity is linked to good achievement in several areas. High productivity in the counties is associated with low residue levels and shorter procedural time. The low residue level is again linked to higher target achievement in terms of user follow-up and user satisfaction. The improvement in the productivity of the counties is therefore central to the achievement of the objectives of the establishment. It is also a matter of course, but it needs to be clarified that better productivity and target achievement require management attention and better cooperation on good joint solutions, and that you learn from those who do well. I will not do any deep dives in Nav's challenges in this post, but I want to develop a relationship that I myself have visited the Nav office to be briefed on, and that I have observed with my own eyes. It's the department's ICT tool. The study shows that the current ICT tool in the establishment does not adequately meet the process and information needs of the new organisation, but that it was adapted to the form of work in the old establishments. The interview leaders, supervisors and case handlers describe challenges related to the parallel use of the computer systems in order to ensure access to all relevant information in the process. The consequences of the many professional systems are, according to the report, the lack of information between the different performance areas of the administrative unit, the need for case handlers to record information in several systems, and the need for many manual operations. It goes without saying that this increases the use of time, it also increases the possibility of errors, and it is probably also very frustrating for employees. I can also point out that it seems to be far-reaching for this government to have ICT systems that do not work – just to mention three examples: the justice sector, the Food Safety and the health sector, all of which have been affected in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs during this period. It is timely when the National Audit Office points out that the total operating costs of the Nav offices and administrative units increased by 26 pst. from 2007 to 2010 and that wage and salary expenditure increased by 29 pst. during the same period. This significant increase in resources would include, inter alia: contribute to the reduction of both the balances and the duration of proceedings. However, the study shows that residues are only marginally reduced during the same period and that there has also been no significant improvement in the duration of the etate’s proceedings from 2008 to 2010. Furthermore, the study shows that only 60 pst. of the hours worked by the Nav Office staff and the administrative units are used for professional service related to the benefits. Increasing the efficiency of the performance management and more targeted use of resources are essential for the proper functioning of Nav and meet the expectations and requirements of the Stortinget. With regard to the Committee's comments, I would like to stress in particular that the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that, within the current framework of resources, there is a basis for expecting the agency to reduce the duration of proceedings. I understand that employees in interviews with the Riksrevision point out that high labour pressure and lack of mastery feeling are factors that are burdensome. Of course, some appropriate ICT systems contribute to this. We notice, of course, that the Council of State will follow developments in this area in the future and that some measures will be taken. The question is whether that is enough. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee's last comments in this section, which points out that Nav has largely carried out tasks previously carried out by the merged entities and that it is now six years since the merger. It is time for the system to show better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1225	The main objective of the Nav reform was to bring together the various agencies to ensure better and more efficient use of resources, for the benefit of the individual and for the benefit of society. The central thing was, and is still, that one should meet and see the individual, and use the economic and human resources in the best possible way. There are many great people who work in Nav, who do their utmost to do a good job. The government must therefore facilitate their being given the opportunity to do just that. But the Riksrevision comes with quite striking criticism of resource use. Now Nav has not existed for so long, and it is understandable that such a comprehensive reform will take time to realise. However, considerable differences have recently been identified between the different countries in the use of resources, suggesting that there is a high potential for improvement. Nav is a significant part of the state budget, and the government is responsible for ensuring that the funds are used properly to ensure social considerations. The national audit points out that the average manning situation in the country is 1.54 per 1 000 inhabitants, but there are considerable differences across countries. For example, the manning situation in Finnmark is: of 2,2, while in Rogaland, Akershus and Hordaland it is between 1,2 and 1,4 per 1000 inhabitants. Although Finnmark has a high crew, the report shows that this county has an productivity of 47 pst. lower than the most effective state, namely Uppland. In the event of an improvement in efficiency, Nav could have released 273 annual works for other tasks if the potential had been identified. So there's not necessarily more money that is the solution, but better use of the resources that already exist. The current resource framework therefore provides the basis for expecting Nav to achieve its target more effectively, and it is the government’s responsibility to ensure this. In a report from the Frischsenteret: «The Nav reform: More in work – less in social security?», they concluded among others. with: ‘There appears to be a number of clients with an unemployment-social or health-related problem receiving temporary social security benefits over a longer period than before.’ This shows that Nav is facing major challenges, and more effective use can do something about that development. There are wide variations between the counties in productivity in key areas such as residue levels, process duration, user follow-up and user satisfaction. In the case of high productivity, the processing time is reduced, resulting in increased user satisfaction. The report shows that user satisfaction has fallen over the period 2008–2011, which is very alarming. Fortunately, we have recorded that this trend is now to be over and that it is a improvement. Trust in Nav is central to ensuring good cooperation between management and users, thus ensuring that Nav is able to carry out the tasks assigned to them. The Christian People's Party has been very concerned about exactly these issues for a long time. We've dealt with this with this state council and other state councils on a number of occasions in different ways. We have pointed out the need to fulfil the Storting's intentions with the reform: fewer social security, more at work, easier access for users, the fact that the knowledge of the case rapporteur should be at the forefront of the local Nav offices, as well as measures to improve the operational situation of the establishment and ensure the implementation of what was meant by the Nav reform, for the benefit of users, without the major changes necessarily being made. Therefore, the Christian People's Party expects the government to look at the best states and ensure that good practices and working methods are spread around the country. I would also like to point out that, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, questions may be asked as to whether the directorate and the ministry have, to the extent necessary, established a basis for managing the budget's resources in the best possible way, thereby ensuring that users' rights are adequately respected. It is also worth asking whether administrative units have sufficient competence to carry out their tasks. In a report, the Data Protection Authority has shown that Nav has used some speculative methods to detect the misuse of welfare goods. This report shows a practice that is highly objectionable and at the expense of legal certainty for users. Here the Christian People's Party expects the Council of State to clean up and ensure that Nav uses sound methods in his work. Nav is bound by confidentiality rules, and many of the methods identified are at least ethically questionable. State councils should therefore review the adequacy of legislation and, where appropriate, provide for clarifications at certain points. The Christian People's Party is concerned and it is good to work to expose the abuse – it is important – but we expect this to be done in a proper way. Finally, I just want to say that it is encouraging to see that some states get it. That's why we have to be concerned that the states can learn from each other. We expect the government to take on board the specific points raised by the National Audit Office and to put in place the measures needed to achieve the best for all, namely a hub that works even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1249	The National Audit Office’s 2009 and 2010 survey shows that there is a potential for better use of resources in Nav. I agree. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has therefore launched more measures in line with this. The subsequent studies show that these measures are effective. Much has happened since 2010. The last Nav office was established in 2011 and thus the establishment of labour and welfare management was completed. At the same time, major changes have been introduced in many services and instruments in this administration during the reform period. I believe that the changes according to the assumptions have been satisfactorily implemented. I underline ‘according to the assumptions’, because it is not easy to make such a big transition and at the same time have ‘business as usual’, ensuring that people get what they want, and then introduce major changes, both in terms of content and in terms of organisation. This year’s user survey also shows higher scores than in the previous three years in many areas. There is progress in user satisfaction in all counties and in almost all user groups, including satisfaction with service and respect. The National Audit Office did not have material observations on the accounts for 2010. There is a significant improvement from 2008 and 2009 when the accounts were not approved. In addition to resource use, the allocation of resources is of great importance and crucial for us to have a similar service provision across the country. In line with the recommendation of the expert committee that was set down in the spring of 2010 to look at the Nav and the organisational model, the Directorate has developed a new resource allocation model for the county line, which will be implemented gradually. I underline ‘gradually’ because the survey showed that there was – as you are also concerned about here – a certain imbalance in distribution in the needs of the counties and what they were actually allocated by means. It is important that you do not change this overnight — or in this case a year — because there is a need for a gradual introduction of the right allocation of resources, because otherwise it may create more problems than we are fined. This new model improves the distribution of resources between the counties based on the challenges in the county and the task load. The Ministry has asked the Directorate to strengthen the work on productivity measurements as a basis for improving resource use. ICT modernisation shall provide more efficient performance management and release annual work for the labour-oriented follow-up. It's especially important. I think we should be clear that working with the most important message of the Nav reform itself, getting more people to work – it has not been able to focus so much on the times in which you have had organisation and conversion – is one of the things you now have to do in particular. It will be the most important thing in what Nav is doing in the future. The Directorate has developed an activity strategy up to 2020. The strategy focuses in particular on measures to achieve the objectives of efficient performance management, good user follow-up and high professional participation. In recent years, the State of Employment and Welfare has been working to improve the quality of performance management. Three areas have been central to the follow-up of the Ministry: implementation and enforcement of key procedural checks as part of a significantly enhanced internal control system development of a quality system and a knowledge base to set objective and measurable standards of quality in the process and not least; new ICT solution in the Working and Welfare Session The Directorate is well in the process of taking action in these areas. Developments in the period of treatment in the performance field were positive in 2011. The budget dealt with several cases in a timely manner, while reducing the total number of pending cases. Cases over the external border were reduced during 2011. The aim of the Directorate is now to reduce the duration of proceedings during 2012 for most benefits. It is primarily in the Nav International and for some of the family benefits that there are major challenges to meeting the requirements of procedural time. The ministry follows this closely. I would like to stress that, in particular, Nav International has major challenges with the large labour migration we have to Norway, and with the open labour market, it is clear that there are major demands for Nav to be able to follow internationally – get legitimate information, etc. So it's a very challenge to make sure that people get the right performance at the right time. I think we should be aware – and I am very concerned about that – that this is a challenge that will probably not be less in the years to come. In 2011, Nav also strengthened user follow-up for work and activity. Several job seekers, sick-seekers and people with unemployment benefits have been followed up. As many have said here, competence is an essential element of quality in the performance management and labour-oriented user follow-up of Nav. The ETF has implemented several training measures that have improved the quality of the response. The Ministry has asked the Directorate to complete a comprehensive competence strategy. The Ministry will have dialogue with the Directorate on the competence strategy when it is available. In February, the government presented Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012, Welfare Education — Interplay in practice. It was emphasised that the Nav reform introduced new skills requirements for staff. Initial and cross-professional cooperation shall be strengthened. The Ministry of Labour and the Directorate will actively participate in the follow-up and concreteisation of the measures proposed in the Communication. The State of Labour and Welfare has had major challenges, but I believe the state is on the right track. At the same time, improvements in performance management and user follow-up are needed to achieve the objectives of the reform. The size and complexity of the establishment mean that further development must have a long-term and holistic perspective. It will take time for all areas to have sufficient quality. This must be seen in the light of the fact that much of the improvement will also be based on ICT modernisation, which is now well under way. Finally, I will join in that, among other things. The rapporteur-general said. I also want to thank the employees who have been standing in this storm – I do that very often, but it is good to say so from the voice of the Stortinge. Then I have two brief comments on the representative, Mr Ropstad, who referred to the Frischsenter report, which has been presented recently. I would like to stress – I think the representative is aware of that too – that that report is based on data up to 2008, i.e. in the period when Nav was most vulnerable to migration. It's not surprising to anyone who knows about this type of conversion, that when it was the ability to work to get people out of work, they fell down. What's the big challenge, and what's most important in the Nav strategy now, is to use the new instrument, redundancy money, and the new tools that we're constantly putting into Nav, to correct and change that development. At the end of the day: the data protection authority was also mentioned. The Data Protection Authority has provided a report that we are now reviewing. I can promise the representative that I fully understand that Nav will abide by the laws and regulations. There is nothing in the Swedish Data Protection Agency's report, as I see, that suggests that Nav goes on chords with laws and regulations. I'll give my answer. There is a difficult balance between enforcing a good system that prevents abuse and privacy, but we need to do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1306	The National Audit Office's review of the use of resources in Nav is, of course, the description of the snow that fell last year. It's necessarily not less important for that reason. In any case, it is important to keep an eye on weaknesses in an organisation that manages nearly the third of the government budget annually. We depend on an organisation that manages all of our most important welfare systems, and on the optimum functioning of this organisation. Despite the shortcomings identified in the National Audit Office’s investigation and a significant potential for improvement, the National Audit Office’s review also shows that Nav’s organisation is in the process of settling and that many are working better. If we look at today’s situation, i.e. two years in time after the National Audit Office’s review, then Nav’s own user survey shows further improvements. The hub is on the right track, and the user satisfaction has increased. However, the National Audit Office points to two important issues that I am afraid still characterise the organisation, namely major internal differences in the service provision, and that too much of the resources are spent on tasks that are not directly related to the users. In 2010, the total was 40 pst. of the time spent on what we might call administrative tasks. I assume that an antique and heavy-duty computer system is a major reason for this. But I would also like to believe that regulatory simplification and organisational change have improved, and will improve, the situation further. We already see results of this. The renewal of the computer systems is in full swing, but it takes an improper amount of time before all of this is on the lookout. It is not, however, this image that the media conveys, or that characterises the enquiries that run into the e-mail boxes to us wholesalers. We are in many ways the complaint wall for all those who think they are not getting the treatment they are entitled to – and let me add, often with full justice. I am therefore very pleased that Nav has gradually established its own better functioning complaint handling system and that the complaints are now being taken more seriously. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of Nav being a learning organisation — the organisation’s ability to learn from itself through best internal practice. In this respect, I have great expectations of the so-called quality promise that the organisation is now carrying out, through areas, establishing national standards and setting quality standards. At the same time, I feel a need to warn ourselves a little bit, that is. Our own attachment to, and appetite for, detailed governance and supplanting of large organisations in general. We still see tendencies toward it. We have e.g. issued a minimum guarantee for the number of government employees in all the municipalities of the country, i.e. a political requirement for the organisation, which is probably well-known but which may not contribute to an efficient and well-functioning organisation, in order not to optimise the use of resources for the benefit of users, which is the theme of the National Audit Office’s review of Nav in this case. Or in another way: when we make such a demand, at least we have to renovate on the requirement of an efficient organization. I think that some self-imposed restraint in imposing new and demanding tasks on Nav in the near future, at least until the computer systems and the organisation are able to handle them, can be in place. Finally, I am responding to the use of the concept of production in the National Audit Office's report, as if social services, pensions, social security benefits of a different nature, are to be measured as production. Of course, this is never production, and it makes no sense to measure such services in the same way as industry does. I therefore fully share the rapporteur's comments with the National Audit Office on New Public Management.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1325	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1331	The size is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-30.ana.ud2079e1393	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
