ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e26	The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e29	I would like, on behalf of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Tord Lien and myself, to promote a proposal on a pharmaceutical policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e46	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e53	During the weekend, we could read the very strong story of severe fire damage Even and his family. It is clear that we also saw the unreasonable rate of wealth tax that affects this family, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm what the Minister of Finance has said, namely to clean it up. So I would like to allow myself to read some of that family themselves said to VG this weekend: «Mama Karina is not ready, but has a full-time job of keeping track of the paper mill around the son. The family has a lot of extra expenses, both for medicine and travel. They have to keep time-limits for reimbursement, in order not to be economically dependent. Parents must deal with several public authorities, NAV, HELFO, Patient's Trips and Health North. The system is complex, it's hard to keep track of it. – We often do not get an answer to what we are asking for, but we are only sent on to the system. You can call a whole week just to get the right person. In order to get involved in the legislation, and to know what we really have to do, we usually have to look for the Internet ourselves. But luckily now we have been given assistance to the administrative part, says Mom." It's clear that for this family, it's great that they've got that help. But it's quite amazing that it's going to be necessary to get administrative assistance from the public in order to meet the public bureaucracy. There are more and more examples in the public space that suggest that you should be very resourceful and really quite healthy to be ill in Norway. And there's a lot of examples of that from the media. There is a notice that we have received several health bureaucrats after the hospital reform, a doctoral student who says you need to be healthy to deal with getting sick in Health-Norway, there is a notice of a break in the waiting lists – not least about Filip, who fought Nav for five years before he got a hit. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does he think this is the right way to treat sick people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e77	I think it made the impression on absolutely everyone who read that story in the VG this weekend. It is good that there has been so much attention, because I believe that attention is important both for cleaning up weaknesses and deficiencies found in the Norwegian healthcare system, and actually also for the individuals who see them being finally seen. I can confirm what the Minister of Finance has said about the wealth tax. It's obviously an unreasonable rash, and it's time for it to be cleaned up. In the case of bureaucracy, I am very concerned that public services – in healthcare and elsewhere – should be made more accessible. There's a lot of things we do to contribute to it. An important measure, which the government is in the middle of now, is digitisation. It is simply that the normal first choice in the case of forms, in the case of papers and in the case of applications should be digital solutions. It will significantly reduce paperwork, make information and forms easier to access and reduce processing time. That is why we have now also launched the most comprehensive programme for simplifying paperwork and bureaucracy in the public sector through the digitisation of the public sector. Now we also get what's called e-ID, so you can use this simpler than what we're doing today. So red tape, simpler solutions, we're very much in favour. But in this case, I think maybe the most important question is that we also want to expand the Norwegian healthcare system, so that more people can get good treatment. That's where we see evolution going in the right direction. Several receive treatment, and the quality of treatment increases when we compare the quality of Norwegian hospitals – and treatment outcomes there – with other hospitals. We're among the best, but we're not satisfied with it. We will be even better, and therefore we need to further strengthen the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e88	The even case is one example, but unfortunately it's not a unique example. I don't think we have to go into the claim that it's just an individual matter. Because there are a lot of people in Norway who experience the same when they get sick, that they have to spend a lot of resources finding out what their rights are, what their demands are, and how they are going to find out what information is about them. It's a very unnecessary burden for people who really have more than enough just to get healthy. Then I might think that one thing is digitizing, another thing is coordinating information. Only in the health sector is there a wide range of health portals to be searched for, in order to access relevant information. So the question is, does the Prime Minister think that what we're seeing now is an auxiliaries or whether it's – what we're going to call it – a ‘knock in the wheels-apparatus’?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e95	There are between 8 and 9 million treatments, investigations, in the specialist health service every year. There are 1.8 million different Nordics receiving treatment in Norwegian hospitals and specialist healthcare every year — more than ever. The main picture is that people receive the treatment they require and that quality is good and increasing. But when there are so many people who are being treated, and so many different treatments, there are unfortunately still too many examples of failure and lack. We want to do something about that. We want to make it easier. These include: This is why we have introduced eRecept, and that is why we are now investing significantly in better communication between hospitals, between health services and the Interaction Reform – just to make everyday life easier and health services more accessible. In addition, we have announced that we will go through the entire law on health care rights, because it is too complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e102	Three additional questions have been asked so far, and this will be given an opportunity – first from the representative Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e105	The Prime Minister is absolutely right that we have a very good health care system. Very, very many people get good help in the Norwegian healthcare system, but unfortunately we also see many examples like that with Even – and many others. We are told every day, and I'm sure the Prime Minister will. We also see that there are the resource strengths that win through a tough system — those who can look for other treatment sites in the home and abroad. We also see that we have a strong increase in those who sign private health insurance, and that's exactly what it says that people have no confidence that they're getting the help in health care that they should get. My question to the Prime Minister will then be whether he will help us get a society that puts the patient higher than the system, and whether he will help us to strengthen patient rights – perhaps primarily by making health care so simple that you get the help you need, and not need help to get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e114	When we discuss health policy, I think we have to try to be nuanced all of them. It is very important that we see all the simple examples of things that do not work – people who do not receive treatment, or people who have to work too much through bureaucracy and forms, to get treatment. At the same time, we must not lose the big picture, but give recognition to all the tens of thousands who work in the Norwegian health care system every day, who do a formidable job, and who ensure that we have – based on international comparisons – one of the world's best health services measured in e.g. survival, quality of treatment, safety of operations. Then we have to see the shortcomings, but also that the big picture is that the Norwegian health care system and all those who work there – doctors, nurses, health professionals – deserve recognition. So I'm concerned with simplification. And that's exactly why we've now launched the national core journal, which is going to involve significant simplification. That's why we introduced reimbursement digitally – we did a few years ago – and many other simplifications that make it less bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e121	Bente Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e124	I think Norwegian patients have made a good diagnosis of Norwegian health care – they are largely satisfied in the meeting with the individual working in the healthcare system, but they are very dissatisfied with the organisation. They tried to do something about this, and we got a NOW called the Patient first! The main instrument there was to introduce the patient-responsible system in all hospitals, which all patients with complex needs would receive. After ten years it turned out that no hospital had systematically implemented this, and the government's response to that was to change the system to a patient coordinator. Doctor Per Fugelli is the one who may have put the strongest words on this, when he, as a cancer patient, experienced having to deal with 37 doctors. How many years should it be before cancer patients and other patients in Norway actually experience that hospitals implement what the Stortinget has adopted in law more than ten years ago, namely that they should have one coordinator who takes responsibility for them when they are in hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e134	I agree that we can still make things considerably easier in the Norwegian health care system. When the representative mentions cancer, it is also an area where things can be made easier – we can remove bottlenecks. But in the case of cancer, the picture is also that although we have too many single examples of things that are too complicated, the main picture is that while we were an average country a few years ago when it comes to results, we are now absolutely at the top. We're the world's best in survival by multiple cancers, or at the very top. Not many years have passed since the majority of those diagnosed with cancer died. Now, two out of three people who get a cancer diagnosis survive. Only in recent years have we seen increased survival rates, for example. for breast cancer and bowel cancer, where we are now up to 90 pst. survival rate. There are important results of a fantastic effort, mainly by those who work in the health care system. And then I say, "I see there's a shortage, I see that it's not good enough to be completely in the top of the world, but we're going to be even better, and that's also why we've asked the hospitals for simpler, better and faster routines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e141	Hans Olav Syversen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e144	It might be nice to remember that what we often talk about is when people meet the system – whether the system exists for humans or for themselves. That's at least for the Christian People's Party the most important question here. Back to this with bureaucracy: There the government has got one of its own top bureaucrats describing how it works today. One of the tops in the Ministry of Culture says that we have now received an increased focus on organisation and administration, while we have a reduced focus on action – action to benefit individuals. My question is therefore: Has the Prime Minister read this chronicle? Has the chronicle made an impression on him? And if it's done it: what is the government's answer to get more focus on action for the benefit of the individual human being?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e153	I've read the chronicles, and I think it just confirms that we always have to be impatient to simplify, to improve a large public sector. Not least we who are for a strong public sector with good welfare services for all must be the first to be critical of the way the public sector operates. That is why we are also implementing major changes, major reforms. Secondly, I would say that man is of course more important than the system. It is about individuals, it is about individuals who have to get good deals – and individuals have different needs. If the system doesn't serve the human being in a good way, there's something wrong with the system – nothing wrong with the human beings. But as I try to get there, fortunately, the simple examples are that things don't work, not the typical thing for the Norwegian health care system – the typical thing is that it works well. There is no comfort for those who experience that it is not working, but there is an inspiration to do something about the deficiencies that are still there in the Norwegian healthcare system. Quality – we have introduced transparency on defects and errors, more systematic measurement of errors is important to correct errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e160	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e163	After seven years of red-green government, the Minister of Knowledge concluded a crisis meeting with the country's teacher training institutions on Monday. The background was the very high percentage of the math examination of some teacher training this spring. About 50 pst. In fact, the strike provides a basis for saying that there is a mathematical crisis in Norway. But it's a notified crisis, the trend has been there for a long time. Norwegian maths council has a so-called pre-knowledge test that they've been doing for a number of years. It shows that the proportion of students who respond — and understand — to the simple percentage problem has fallen from 84 pst. in 1984 to 40 p.m. in 2011. This gives great cause for concern, because it's so that mathematics is essential. It is important for engineers to calculate a bridge and to ensure that road construction is good, it is incredibly important for the nurse to outsource medicine – we also see high drug calculation outflows – and it is incredibly important for teachers to make sure that knowledge goes on. Last year, there was also a publication of a study where we gained low on the mathematics skills of newly educated teachers, and the context became clear: what we already saw in primary school, so we at the teacher's education -- we're making things worse in mathematics. We've got a chain that's negatively downwards in this field. The right has proposed a number of measures: several teaching hours in mathematics, further training of teachers, increased admission to teacher training, stronger skills requirements for teachers. All this has been voted down by the Labour Party and the Government. My question to the Prime Minister is then: What does he intend to do to break the evil chain and raise mathematics skills in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e174	I think math is a very important subject, and it's a subject we need in a lot of areas of society -- it's a language that makes it possible for some complex issues to be presented in a simple way. I think one of the problems with mathematics is that some people just think that either you're an expert on mathematics, or you can't do anything. The threshold into the world of mathematics appears to be too high for many. That's why I think making mathematics less mysterious and more accessible from primary school is a very important contribution to raising the general understanding of mathematics in Norway. It's a subject that's very important in a lot of areas of society. That's why I'm worried that the iron percentage is too high for teacher students. For this reason, some emergency measures have been taken by the government, including: own screening tests, to reveal the level of knowledge in mathematics among students starting in higher education, their own intensive courses which can give students a satisfactory level of mathematics and their own competence development project adapted to teacher training. Other more short-term measures are also being taken. The more fundamental thing we do, and which will be of great importance over time, is that we have shifted teaching from teaching to teaching, and that we have introduced skills requirements for teachers when they are going to teach in specific disciplines. I think that also reinforces the importance of mathematics, and we see that the search for teacher education is increasing. 50 pst. The increase in the number of applicants for teacher training also facilitates the setting of higher qualifications for those who are required to take training courses. So we're concerned that mathematics is important and concerned that the quality of a lot of mathematics is too low. We are worried and worried about it, and at the same time we rejoice that we are seeing progress in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e185	We are missing about this year. 16 000 highly educated ICT engineers in Norway. We see that we have to import a lot of knowledge because for a few Norwegian youths over time have learned and can enough math to make them choose, and be able to implement, that kind of education. It's a crisis. The government has taken some action, but there is little evidence that over the next 10–15 years, we are able to break the negative circle we are inside in mathematics, with the measures that have been taken, among other things. because you are not willing to say clearly and clearly that we also need to impose competence requirements on those who are already teachers. Those who are in school today actually have to raise their math skills. We have proposed that, and the government has opposed that. If we had done so, and did what we did with the promise of continuing education, we could break this chain much faster. Because it's like if you have perspiration over fractions – as the Prime Minister himself has admitted that he had at some point – and you're a teacher in a fifth grade, you actually have a problem. So this is going to continue with the government's pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e190	I think I said I got sweaty in my hands when I saw a fraction, and that's quite right. I don't get as sweat now, on the contrary, I enjoy looking at fractions -- and percentages and stuff. It gives me a self-stimulation in life. [[Laughter]] That's the one. The second is that there is a lack of engineers in Norway. It's due to a negative thing and a positive thing. The negative is that we train too few engineers. We've increased the education of the number of engineers. There are more people who are trained now than before, but that's not enough. The second reason is that Norwegian economy is going very well. There's a lot of demand for professional skills, so here too it's probably the way the world is a little bit nuanced. We're busy continuing to train more engineers, but we're also busy having high speed in the Norwegian economy, so there's good demand, even after that profession. It was this government that introduced skills requirements for teachers, and we have significantly strengthened continuing education and training, inter alia. to increase teacher math skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e199	Four follow-up questions are raised – first from Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e202	The Prime Minister boasts that teachers have been trained, but it is the new teacher training that now produces students with 50 pst. Delete. The Prime Minister was busy making mathematics less mysterious from the elementary school of. We now have reports that show that in mathematics there is a clear correlation between results from national tests and positions. Nearly 80 pst. of the students who reached the lowest master’s level in mathematics in the national test stage 8, graduated from primary school with the first or second position in mathematics. The government's measures to help the weakest students were that New GIV is inserted after Christmas in the 10th grade. It thinks the Right is too late. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the government see the seriousness of the situation of the weakest students, and will the government now change its New GIV strategy and deploy measures from 8th grade, when we already know which students really need help there?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e214	We see the seriousness. That is why we have implemented a number of short-term measures. I mentioned several of them, among others. own screening tests, own intensive courses and own competence development projects for teacher students, and we have also put in place more long-term things, such as strengthening the continuing training of teachers and the competence requirements for teachers. But I am at any time willing to discuss other measures. I have very lowered shoulders when it comes to finding other and even better suggestions that can enhance mathematics in Norwegian school, among both students and teachers. I believe there is one measure that is important for municipalities to take — that is to say, at primary level, to take courses at secondary school level. We see that several municipalities are now facilitating this. It raises the math skills of the students, and letting primary school students take upper secondary education -- not least mathematics -- is something I'd like to encourage more municipalities to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e219	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e222	What the Prime Minister and the representative of Solberg have discussed is a symptom of a much larger challenge, namely that mathematics, science and technology have been down priorities for many years, both in the social debate and also by the majority in this Chamber. The party of progress is concerned about this. It is a big and scary paradox given the importance of these subjects for the welfare and value creation of Norway. When the Prime Minister says he thinks it's funny with percentages and fractions, I've included a math question today: When the Prime Minister came to power in 2005, Norway lacked 6,000 engineers. After seven years of power, Norway lacks 15 000 engineers. If this trend continues, how many engineers will Norway be missing in 2017? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e229	Even more so than today. But I think we have to take over the following: we're training more engineers. That's good. We get more applicants for teacher training. That's good. But as I was in the middle of it, there are two reasons why we have a shortage of engineers. One is that although we train more engineers, we have such good growth in the Norwegian economy – we have so high investments, we have so high employment growth – that the need is even greater. Then we have to do two things. We have to keep training even more engineers. We're going to fix it. We are increasing the number of places of study, including: in the field of engineering training, in our budgets. We have done the same in this budget. The second thing we do is to facilitate being part of an open European labour market. It just illustrates how important it is for Norway not to isolate itself from the world but to allow us to gain expertise from other countries as well. So we thank the engineers from other countries who come to Norway and help build Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e236	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e239	There's no doubt that it's the teachers who are the key to bringing up the math skills in our country. My theory is that we have now reached a spiral. We've had a low level of math in teacher training. As a result, we get poor students, who are now teachers, and who iron out math. This means that the most important input now is not the rapid action you can take in teacher training — it is long-term action. The short-term measures are to get teachers who are currently in school to become good and safe in math skills. The Prime Minister said in a previous reply that we had had a significant investment in continuing education. Then I can say hello from the Education Association in West Agder and say that they do not experience it. Although some changes have been made to that system, there is still a much greater need — and a desire — for teachers to take on- and on-the-job training than they can. Will the government now have an obligation, and a right, to continuing education, which will give us speed on this, and that there will be a significant investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e246	I think that's the way it is in this area, as in a lot of other areas where I get questions, and answers, and that's that it's done a lot. We're on the move, and we're stepping up. At the same time, we are not on target. There's still more that can be done. That's also the case here. There has been a significant escalation of continuing training of teachers. I am open to considering other and even more measures, for the aim we agree – to strengthen the competence of teachers who are already in school. I think it's important that we also do the long-term things, like to make skills demands for newly-trained teachers, and I think it's important that we think about mathematics in primary school. I have been involved in several measures there, including: the provision of facilities for even more primary school students to take upper secondary school courses. What I think is important is that we raise the status of mathematics and real science. Then it's both about what we're actually doing, and also a lot about what we're saying -- we're talking nice about the subject and we're talking about the importance of it to increase the status of the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e255	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e258	We very much agree on the state of mathematics in Norwegian school. We probably very disagree as to whether there has been a major escalation of continuing education. It is at exactly the same level as it was under the previous government, and it was started under the previous government. We very much agree with the rhetoric – that it is important that our teachers can discipline them. But when Jens Stoltenberg promises to do something for math in the next period, he promises several math lessons at a price of 1.2 billion. kr. I believe that he should have promised to use them to get better and more teachers into the hours we already have. So why is it that the Prime Minister understands the problem, he understands what is needed, but he prescribes the wrong prescription? We don't need more hours, we need much better content in the hours we have. We need more teachers, and we need good teachers who can communicate the joy of mathematics and how great that subject is – not more hours with teachers we don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e265	I mean, we're not going to set up any difference between several hours of mathematics education in Norwegian school, and getting better teachers in mathematics in Norwegian school. I mean we need both. It's true that the government has increased the number of hours of math education. I think that's an expression that we want to bet on mathematics. It is a long-term measure, but it is an important measure. In addition, we have done a lot to facilitate better teachers. We see that more applicants. Then it is also easier to make higher demands, and we have introduced skills requirements – including in mathematics – for newly-trained teachers to start school. Fortunately, we have looked at the international PISA surveys that after Norway fell for some years, we have now seen some increase again. We're on the right path there as well. Then we get to hope and believe that the positive development can continue, because over time it will also do something to the mathematics skills of the teachers when new generations come out of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e272	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e276	The Prime Minister and I have had a slightly different development. It wasn't until after I became a party leader that I was in the habit of seeing fractions and percentages. I have an important question for the Prime Minister. We want to take care of equivalency and human dignity. There has been broad political agreement to protect precisely the equivalency to avoid human beings becoming commodities. The government has been very clear. The government has advised Norwegian citizens to use surrogati abroad, and government councils have also asked questions as to whether surrogati is not a form of human trafficking. But unity is not limited to surrogacy. Biotechnology laws today protect many types of assisted fertilisation, against cloning, against the choice of child characteristics, against the sex testing of foetuses, against different genetic examinations and gene therapy. Nevertheless, I need to ask the question: What is the government's view now? The Ministry of Health has sent out a proposal that the criminal liability of biotechnology laws should not apply to private individuals. It means that surrogati, the choice of properties of children and sexual orientation are legal for individuals. In the hearing proposal, there is not a single word that shows that the government has any objections to surrogati, sex testing or the choice of child characteristics. In a large and growing global market, poor women sell access to their own bodies. The buyers are rich people from our part of the world. My question to the Prime Minister is very simple: Is the government against surrogati or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e289	It is true that the government is reviewing and evaluating the Biotechnology Act. It is also right to work on the question of surrogati and its handling. When it comes to that question, it's like I've declared myself incapacitated for careful reasons, simply because one of the themes that's been most advanced concerns a matter that's about a person that I know well. That's why there's a question that I'm not participating in the discussion of, neither in government nor at large. So what I can say in general about is the work on the biotechnology law in general, but surrogati would be wrong if I said something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e296	I do not ask whether surrogati should be legal in Norway or whether it should be legal for Norwegian citizens to do it abroad. I ask questions about surrogati itself. There I understand the Prime Minister, and he has acted very neatly in these kinds of matters. But this is the question, what do we think about surrogati? The Prime Minister must have a point of view. This has been an area where the government has been very clear, they have been against surrogati. Now, what's special is that the government has come up with a listening memo saying that individuals in Norway can do this legally abroad. But what's the hold of surrogati? Is there something the government wants to fight against? Does the government want more and more people to have done just surrogati abroad? For such an important value question, the government must have another position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e303	I think that the way the question is formulated just illustrates that there are some difficult balances here. The representative asks what I think about surrogati, but in the next sentence he asks what I think about surrogati abroad. This is precisely the question of how to do things abroad that are illegal in Norway, and how to deal with them in Norway, I am incapacitated in relation to – or at least I have considered not to be involved in the treatment of it for precautionary reasons. I think it's almost impossible to have a discussion about surrogati, which is banned in Norway, but where the main theme or at least the most central themes has been how we handle doing things abroad that we have chosen to ban in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e308	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e311	We have expectations that the Prime Minister has a clear view of the most important value issues of human vision that are at stake today. These are not questions you are or can be incapacitated in relation to. The Christian People's Party has been used to looking at the left as close ally in the fight against the exploitation of women and in the fight for equality both nationally and globally. That's why we have to ask the question again: Is the government for surrogati, or is the government against surrogati?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e318	I think it is a dilemma that I am being challenged by things where I would at least very easily formulate myself so that it is perceived that I am taking a position on the question that the previous representative asked, namely what I think is that surrogati can be carried out in another country, and that is the question I must be careful to comment on when it is prohibited in Norway. Of course, the government believes that under Norwegian law, which we have practiced and put ourselves behind, this is prohibited in Norway. But that is not the political theme of the debate now. What is the political theme of the debate now is a question I have said that I am indulging in relation to: What do we think about doing things in other countries that are banned in Norway? Then I'm in the middle of the question that I've said on several occasions that I can have a personal and private opinion about, but I especially believe in the Stockholm Chair, as Prime Minister, I'm not going to begin to think anything about what can be interpreted as that I think about something that I'm innate with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e325	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e328	I'm sure the Prime Minister may know some poor people too, but I don't think he's indulging in discussing poverty. When he joined, he was to eradicate poverty, eliminate poverty. After seven years of power, this is the goal that governments are far from. We know that 75 000 children under the age of 18 live in families with persistently low incomes in Norway. I think it was really embarrassing when the finance committee yesterday took its position, where we spend 1065 billion. kr in 2013, and we are unable to fight poverty by using those funds. Kristin Halvorsen once said so wisely that this is about political will. I went through the press book to the government, that is, the textbook, where the 2013 budget is produced in all the best ways you want, and there is the word poverty zero times. The left has proposed an obliging escalating plan, for example: in the field of social assistance and a number of other measures. The most concrete thing that the government stands for in this budget is that they vote against all the proposals proposed by the Left. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the government's efforts to eliminate poverty after having been with majority power for seven years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e339	The answer to that question is no. I like to use an old Swedish message: we are proud, but not satisfied. There are very few areas of society where I say I'm satisfied, but there are a lot of areas of society where I say we're proud of the effort and have done a lot of work. But the day you say you're happy, I think you can easily see that you can lean back and say that you're satisfied. We're not. Poverty is a serious social problem – that people live with low incomes over a long period of time. There are few things that make me more worried and more worried. We also know that low income and social problems are easily inherited. That's why we've done a lot to reduce social inequality, to raise those who have the hardest. There are many reasons why people live with low incomes over a long period of time. That's why we want to do a lot of different things. The main reason people have low incomes is because they don't have a job. This is why the most important measure to combat social inequality is to provide more people with work. We have managed to keep Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and we have had record growth in the number of people who get a job in Norway. It is an important measure of poverty. Another important reason why people live in poverty is poor integration. Immigrants account for an increasing proportion of those with low income. Integration, free core time, homework, labour market measures, Norwegian education — all these are poverty measures and help us to achieve better integration in Norway than in many other countries. Russ and psychiatry are important reasons why people have low incomes. Never before have more people received drug treatment in the specialist health service; never before have more people received an offer of psychiatric health care. I'm proud of that, but not satisfied with it, because we need to do even more. In addition, we have increased the minimum population benefit to 2 G, raised to a new level, and we have achieved significant improvements in housing support. All these are measures that take different groups of people who are struggling with poor finances and who are pointing in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e352	Then I notice that the Prime Minister is not satisfied, but he is proud that the number of poor children has actually increased. We see that the left-hand side is often monotonous with the fact that all the distribution in society is going to take place through the income side of the government budget, where all the reasonable reliefs are stopped because they might fail, while you're not at all concerned with how to use the expenditure page to reach exactly those who need it the most. It's about differentiating child welfare, kindergarten prices, SFOs, equipment scholarships, all of the subsidies we have – we could have directed at those who absolutely need it the most. The left will also use the spending page to combat poverty. We have presented models in our alternative budget that show that a single-parent, for example. in my part of the city, with about 300,000 kroner of income and two children, could get NOK 2000 more to go with if we had been willing to use these tools to reach those who need it the most. Why doesn't the Prime Minister want to take part in such a vow?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e364	First briefly, the number of children living with low incomes has increased. Quite independently of statistics, too many children grow up with low-income parents, in any case. But it's always a little bit strange to hear that number usage from people who sat in the last government. According to the way the OECD measures poverty, the proportion of children living in families with persistently low incomes increased from 2 pst. to 5 pst. It's more than a doubling. Since then it has been stable. So while there was a strong growth when the Left was in government, we have at least succeeded in stopping that growth and flattening it out. I'm not satisfied with that, but I just think it's a little strange to hear that this is almost a problem that occurred after we took responsibility. There was a completely different and more negative development during the previous government. In terms of needs-tested child welfare and the type of action: I am very afraid that it will both make it difficult to have low income, and that you will have more needs-tested schemes. We're more for example. free learning materials and affordable kindergartens rather than creating poverty traps through more needs testing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e373	Four follow-up questions are raised – first from Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e376	Poverty has been an important issue in the last two election campaigns. In the 2009 election campaign, Jens Stoltenberg promised, at the invitation of the then leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, to take part in a cross-political force to combat poverty in families with children, on which the Prime Minister was now involved. It was a promise without real content. In the 2005 election campaign, documented in the film Oljeberget, the Prime Minister asked why a new government was needed. On that question, the Prime Minister replied that never has a government spent more money than the current government, that nevertheless the number of poor children has increased, and that was a good enough reason to change government on 12 September 2005. My question will then be: is the same good argument now in the 9 September 2013 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e385	First, I would like to stress that there are too many children growing up with parents with low incomes. It's a serious social problem, and I mentioned in my previous answer many steps we're taking to do something about it: work, integration, drugs, psychiatry, raising some benefits, among other things. housing aid, and many other measures. But it is that according to the way the OECD defines poverty, which is when you earn less than half of an average income or a median income, there was more than a doubling under the previous government. Growth has stopped – the proportion of children living in these types of families has actually gone down slightly under this government. But I repeat, I'm not satisfied with that. I think there are too many too, and that's why we have to do even more. I believe that we should do more, among other things. in the case of integration. A very large proportion of those living with low incomes are immigrants, and therefore we need to do more in terms of integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e394	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e397	Last week I met a five-year-old girl living in Oslo, who is one of the children growing up in poverty, where her mother can't afford to take her on vacations or on birthdays. One of the most important things that, among other things, For example, researchers point to the causes of child poverty. child welfare and that it has remained still from the year 2000 to the present day. At the same time, we also see that many of the children live on social assistance, and it varies widely around the municipalities how this is handled, and what rates are used. The Progress Party is more concerned with seeing children in their everyday lives rather than arguing about different poverty definitions. That is why I want to challenge the Prime Minister for two things: Will the government and the Prime Minister agree to ensure that child welfare follows wage developments in the future, and will the Prime Minister agree to make the rates of social assistance the norm, so that they are equal throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e406	We have thought it is more important to make services cheaper and accessible to people who are struggling with low economics than to give priority to increasing child welfare. We have done this in Norway over several years, under changing governments, and therefore child welfare has not been adjusted in line with wage growth. But under this government we have introduced a significant cut in the price of kindergartens. It's been reduced every year. We now have substantially cheaper kindergartens than we had a few years ago. It is an important measure that makes kindergartens available and is important not least for those who have poor advice. The second thing we've done is we're introducing free education in high school. The third thing we've done is to introduce free core time into areas with many immigrant families, simply because we know that -- I think it's about 60 pst. – at least a very large proportion of those with low income are immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e415	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e418	In many ways, population growth saves government's poverty statistics. Because although the proportion does not increase very much, the number is increasing. It is undisputed that there will be more children growing up in poverty. I agree with the Prime Minister that it is complicated. Poverty in Norway today is not just a matter of poor advice. Bad advice is often a symptom of other social problems, such as: that you don't get help in the psychiatry, which has been treated voicelessly for a long time, that you don't have a school that can teach everyone to read and write, so they have what they need to get out of life later, and that you don't get into the labour market. It is precisely in the labour market that, although the unemployment rate in Norway is low, there are more out of the labour market. Those we try to help enter the labour market experience that on labour market measures it is long queues, long waiting times. What does the Prime Minister want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e427	Firstly, the proportion of Nordics who are on what are called health-related benefits, when we add up both unemployment benefits, disability benefits and sick pay, has not increased — it has even fallen slightly. But once again, I don't know how meaningful it is that we're discussing that kind of number, because we agree, across the party divide, that there are too many, and that we have to do something about it. When it comes to poverty, we can have long, statistical debates. I think you have to look at the proportion. It is true that the population of Norway has increased. This is because many immigrants have come to Norway, and many of them are in low-income families. Then the EU has one definition – it's about the same picture. The OECD has a different definition, but regardless of definition, there are thousands of people who feel that they have too little advice and that they are struggling with low incomes. The most important thing we do to get more people to work is to create more jobs. That is why I am very concerned that we should pursue an economic policy that allows us to continue to have a strong growth in employment in Norway, and that we should build bridges into the labour market for those who are outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e436	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e440	I have read the government's status report on the Action Plan against Poverty in the 2013 budget, and as far as I can see, there are no new measures there for 2013. On the contrary, several measures have been terminated or are being wound up. The results are deficiently documented. It says the most about how many have been on different measures, but little about whether they worked — when we see all the measures together. I am surprised that the government has not launched a real offensive against poverty. Child poverty is very high – we all agree on that, including the Prime Minister. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party proposes a new tax deduction of NOK 5000 per child. This will be given in cash to those who are out of work. This will really be a solid uplift to child poverty. Should the Prime Minister consider this, either now or for example. in the context of revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e449	I do not know the device on that proposal. It's stupid to say that you don't want to consider a proposal – I think a lot, and I'm always willing to change my mind, learn and adjust my policy. But in general, I would say that I believe that in terms of poverty, the most important measure is to help people get to work. The second is that for those who cannot get to work – and there are some people who cannot – services are very important. We know that addiction and psychiatry are absolutely crucial, and so the government is spending more and more on psychiatry. It is primarily health measures, but they also have important effects on people who are struggling with low income. As far as integration is concerned, as I have said, I do not think that the issue is primarily more cash, but the question is Norwegian training, labour market measures, childcare facilities, homework – all measures that can help people with immigrant backgrounds get into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e456	So we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e459	The situation in the Middle East is very exciting and dramatic. It announced the ceasefire between Israel and Hamas did not take place at midnight. At the same time, it is difficult to see the individual conflict completely isolated and only through Israeli/Palestinian glasses. The individual conflicts in the region derive influence from and affect other countries in the region, and not least the risk of an infectious effect is high in a region where the balance of power and power now appear to be completely different. Norway took a very pending position on the situation in Libya a year and a half ago, and in the Questionnaire as late as two days before the Security Council reached its decision on the no-fly zone and the protection of civilians, the government was not willing to flag when an overall opposition asked for the government's opinion. In the shadow of what is now happening in Gaza and in Israel, a gathering of the opposition took place in Syria on 11 November – to the National Syrian Opposition Council. In a short time, France, the Arab League, the EU and – as late as yesterday – the United Kingdom have recognised this opposition in various ways. For the time being, Norway has been silent. The process of gathering the Syrian opposition has been in demand of the international community for a long time, because it is a very important step in the direction of putting in place an alternative to today's very brutal regime. It is an escalation of violence – over 30 000 people have been killed – and political signals of support have a major impact on the way forward. With the experience of the restraining position taken by the government in relation to Libya, will the Prime Minister now ensure that Norway recognises the National Syrian Opposition Council as a legitimate representative of the Syrian opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e472	First to Libya: I believe Norway had no restraining role there. We were one of the countries that participated most actively and were most clearly in both the political and military processes to stop the abuses that Gaddafi committed against its people, and we have received a lot of recognition for Norway's contribution to that process, not least the large military contributions. Then I agree that the Middle East conflicts are linked, and that the situation in Syria is very dangerous; it is an unsolved situation. We have welcomed the formation of a national council, a national assembly of the opposition in Syria. We believe it is a legitimate representative of the opposition. We have not said – perhaps unlike any other country, at least France – that it is the only legitimate representative. That, I think, is a correct attitude on the part of Norway, because it is quite incomprehensible, and there may be other representatives. But that the opposition is gathering, we think it's positive. We believe that it makes it easier to imagine a negotiated solution when there are two clear parties, and we encourage them to start a dialogue, stop fighting and find a political solution to the conflict in Syria. We have also expressed that in many political conversations. Not long ago, I had a long conversation with the Prime Minister of Turkey and with the President about this, and Norway also plays an important role in humanitarian aid in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e479	It is absolutely indisputable that Norway played a reticent role in what happened in the Security Council. So just two days earlier, you were very skeptical about introducing a grounding zone – it's just to go back into the minutes and see. When we first took part, it is absolutely right that our efforts and the efforts of our soldiers have received considerable and deserved recognition. It is good that we managed to make a contribution as quickly as we did, when we first decided to contribute. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister now says that a meeting of the Syrian opposition is welcomed. I would like the government to go even further and say that it is recognised as a representative of the Syrian opposition, because it is an important political signal. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was only a short time ago in Turkey and Greece, among others. We visited a refugee camp for Syrian refugees all the way to the border with Syria. The refugees we talked to, of course, told strong stories, but at the same time they were very concerned that the international community had to give them help to find a political solution to the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e488	We regard the new national committee as one representative of the opposition in Syria, and that is the most coordinated and united representative. That's a recognition in it. And we believe that getting a larger overall opposition in Syria makes it easier to imagine a political dialogue. A challenge in the conflict in Syria has been that there have been struggles between the opposition and government forces and between different opposition forces, and it is quite unclear which political and military groups are part of the opposition in Syria. It argues that, at least, there should not be a completely unambiguous party on the one hand to the conflict, but should try to contribute to political dialogue, try to contribute to political talks, which will result in a political rather than a military solution to the conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e495	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e498	The brutal civil war in Syria has no winners, but the list of losers stays longer and longer for every single day. However, there is reason to rejoice that the Syrian opposition has now gathered, and there is reason to rejoice that there are more and more who recognise the opposition, either as the only or as a legitimate representative of the Syrian people. I share the previous questioner's intention here that Norway should be late. We were very late in our relationship with Libya, where the Norwegian Government had a negative attitude two days in advance of the Security Council resolution. A very short time ago, representatives of this government said that Norway did not accept or otherwise cooperate publicly in order to recognise the Syrian opposition. So my question is, how will the government now contribute to working with the opposition for a better and democratic Syria? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e507	Let me again stress that we consider the national coalition to be a legitimate representative of the opposition in Syria. That's what the Foreign Minister has said, I say that, and there's a recognition that we're saying that, and we think it's important that that opposition initiate political talks and that we have a political dialogue. Norway plays a more central role in other peace processes and conflicts than we do in Syria. What we're doing here is we're supporting a lot of countries that are trying to get into dialogue and solution. We have supported the work of the UN and we have also had a Norwegian general who has played a central role in these efforts. The fact that we do not play an equally central role in the conflict in Syria as we do in other conflicts is not an expression that we are not concerned about the conflict, but I think it is right to have a division of labour between different countries in different conflicts, and that not all countries are equally central in all conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e514	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e518	The Syrian government is reported to receive weapons and equipment from Iran to continue its warfare. The same is true of Hamas. My question is about what Norway, and to the extent that other countries, can do to prevent Iran from continuing to equip dictators and terrorist movements with weapons, thus further destabilising the Middle East?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e525	First, what Norway is doing is taking part in international efforts to resolve the conflicts that give rise to Iran’s role in conflicts in the Middle East. Secondly, we are participating in the international sanctions in place, including: in the case of weapons – against Iran. We are deeply concerned that Iran, but also other forces and powers in the region, is now using different conflicts, whether in Syria, Gaza or elsewhere in the Middle East, to gnaw up under more weapons use and undermine the possibilities of having political talks. There are no simple or quick solutions, but military power is not the answer. Political dialogue must solve the fundamental problem of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and that is what will also, sooner or later, provide the basis for the resolution of the conflict itself in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e532	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e535	Today, a prime minister, who, as far as the fight against poverty is concerned, has been very repatriated, with regard to fundamental ethical issues such as surrogati, has emerged as without meaning, and who now, on the issue of one of the most bloody conflicts the world has seen, and which has been going on for 21 months and has taken 30,000 lives, appears to be very, very passive. Yesterday, United Kingdom Secretary of State William Hague declared that the United Kingdom — one of Norway’s closest allies — considered the new coalition of opposition parties in Syria to be the only legitimate representative of the opposition. What does the British Government know, as Prime Minister Stoltenberg does not know, since he cannot join such a more active conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e544	Firstly, I strongly disagree with the description by the representative of the Højbrätten of my position on, for example. the question of poverty. I have answered many questions, and I have shown that it is a big and very serious social problem that many people live with low income, live in poverty. I have shown many measures, including measures to strengthen and increase the standard of living and the income of those who are struggling in Norway: work, integration, psychiatry, labour market measures and increases in some social benefits in terms of social security. As far as Syria is concerned, we say that the national coalition is one legitimate representative, while other countries say that it is the only legitimate representative. The difference in that is not dramatic, but our assessment has been that there is an uncertain situation in Syria. There are many opposition groups, and we think it is enough that we say that there is one legitimate representative, and not that we say that it is the only legitimate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e551	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and then we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e563	There are no changes to the configured question list.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e570	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence a question. ‘Avinor is planning a completely necessary expansion of Flesland airport. The aerodrome has much more traffic than it is dimensioned for, and it is urgent to develop it in the future. As part of the renewal process, you want to take over areas from the Defense that are no longer used by them. There has been considerable disagreement about the conditions for the acquisition, and the case has remained completely silent for 9 months. Will the Council of State take an initiative in resolving this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e584	Norwegian aviation is largely built up by a close interaction between the Swedish Aviation Agency, later Avinor, and the Defence. Avinor AS and Defence have a close and close relationship with the operation of many of the country's airports. The defence has historically been owned by many airports in Norway, but the need for ownership has been significantly reduced. Large areas have therefore been set aside for disposal. Among other things, this applies to areas in Flesland, including so-called aviation critical areas, which it may be appropriate to transfer directly to Avinor AS. The disposal of property in state ownership shall be carried out on the authority of the Storting. The disposal instruction, given by kgl. Res. of 19 December 1997, sets out detailed guidelines for the disposal of State property. The main principle of the instruction is that disposal is made at market prices in the open market. The instruction does not contain explicit provisions on direct sales to state-owned limited liability companies. The Cooperation Agreement between Defence and Avinor AS, on Aerodrome and Air Navigation Activities, signed in February 2011, mentions inter alia: possible transfer of aviation-critical areas from the defence sector to Avinor AS. In the agreement, the parties agree that such areas ‘should be valued through legal contractual arrangements, if one of the parties so requires’. Such a legal contractual relationship, relating to the critical areas of the Flesland aviation sector, is reported to exist during 2013. When the contractual relationship is available, the government will consider the need to promote any direct sales case for the Stortinget. In the case of areas, which under that cooperation agreement are not aviation-critical, Avinor, as other commercial operators, has to compete in the market in order to gain access to them. The 2011 Cooperation Agreement represents an important milestone in the further development of the close interaction between Defence and Avinor AS. The more detailed follow-up to the agreement is labour-intensive. At the same time, in order to achieve full success, it is essential that the parties comply with agreed rules to seek clarification and consensus. That legal understanding is also an important part of this. Dispute resolution mechanisms are also established in the cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e599	State councils mention that Avinor ‘must compete in the market’, as it was said. Well, there aren't as many other players who have the opportunity to use the areas that an aerodrome actually consists of. In Norway we have organized ourselves so that it is Avinor who stands for the airports. That is why I doubt that interpretation. But what is more serious is that in the process you have a statement from Defence Buildings saying that there is a lack of understanding that makes them want to bring the matter before the department, and there the case has been. Then I demand political will from the state councils responsible for this, because that means that businesses and the population are suffering, and that the airport is not being expanded. And so the same government wants to cut down on the planning time. One year of unnecessary planning time and costs has been included here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e606	As I understand it, the parties have been discussing this for the nine months, among other things. work on the following issues: the preparation and conclusion of agreements on legal relations, documentation of what has been invested in Flesland over NATO’s infrastructure programme, interpretations of the previous cooperation agreement on NATO investments and questions relating to the form of taxiing. Then I assume that the representative Halleraker also agrees that we have to follow the rules of the game that Stortinget has made. It is very important that Avinor and Flesland Airport have access to the aviation critical areas that are actually needed to develop the airport, but at the same time this must be done in a way and in a form that also makes us comply with the disposal requirements set by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e613	Of course, we should follow the rules we have adopted ourselves, but as I said in my first follow-up question, there are elements in this that enable the Council of State to intervene and enforce these processes, for here it has become firm. It is also the case that significant resources are used on both sides over public budgets – totally unnecessary. I think most people have big problems seeing the state against the state delaying the necessary expansion of an airport. I would also say that the requirement of market rental for areas that no one else can exploit in the market, which is therefore three times higher than the one that Avinor himself gets from his other commercial tenants, is, to the most extent, unreasonable. So I again encourage the Council of State to use its influence and cut through, so that something is done about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e622	I see very well the need for Flesland airport to evolve. Equally, it is true that there are large-scale tax programmes and many conditions that need to be put in place in connection with disposal, not least in order for us to meet the requirements of the Stortinge to dispose of, among other things. defence properties. It is also true that in order to meet the acute need for Flesland Airport and Avinor, a lease of 25 units of land has been concluded on Flesland. And of course, we're concerned that this has to happen as quickly and as well as possible, but it's also such that Avinor and the Defense agree that we should use this contractual relationship, and that it will happen in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e633	‘This is the last time, for example: through the article in the Address Paper of 14 November 2012, several patients lose the offer of psychiatric treatment in the specialist healthcare system on the grounds that patients are treatment-resistant, i.e. for sick people to be offered treatment. The Council of State considers that such practices are professionally sound and within the framework of the legislation in force, and what will be done, if appropriate, to: The Council of State decides not to allow patients to experience this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e640	The government is committed to ensuring that people in need of mental health care are offered the best possible range of services. Assessment of treatment and follow-up shall always be carried out on an individual basis and within the framework of professional soundness. The user’s wishes, needs and life situation shall be at the heart of these professional assessments. The specialist health service receives over one million referrals each year. According to the Patient Rights Act, the patient is entitled to healthcare from the specialist healthcare service when 1) the patient has a certain loss of prognosis if the healthcare is delayed, 2) the patient may have expected benefits from the healthcare, and 3) the expected costs are proportionate to the effectiveness of the treatment. All three of these conditions must be met in order for the patient to be entitled to priority treatment in the specialist healthcare service. So a course of diseases can have different phases. The health service is responsible for assessing the action to be taken when. Patients who have undergone specialised treatment programmes may no longer be able to benefit from treatment for a period of time. At that time, the specialist health service and the local health service have a common responsibility for planning, implementing and monitoring the patient’s assistance and care that provides security and life and health care at that stage. In such situations, it may be appropriate to provide services where treatment and care go side by side. It may be relief, support, help to master a difficult life situation or relief. Specialist health services and municipalities are jointly responsible for following up patients in need of health care. In addition, I now have a consultation proposal to strengthen patient rights. The Roadmap for Mental Health aims to develop services that facilitate, as far as possible, the mastery of most people’s lives. This means that patients with both mild and more severe psychiatric disorders should be treated more closely locally and outside hospitals. We have not yet achieved the objective of a comprehensive, easily accessible, local offer across the country tailored to the needs and wishes of users and relatives. There is therefore still a need to change mental health protection in order to expand local services. These are also leaders who are very clear from the World Health Organisation. The interaction reform also points in that direction, and that is right for patients. Let me therefore conclude that no one is too ill to receive treatment. But the treatment they receive must be adapted to the disease and the disease profile the patient has. Therefore, some are to be treated in the specialist health service and some are to be treated in the community health service. It is not always the case that patients and healthcare agree on what is proper treatment. I don't think we can ever get completely out of it. However, it is important that the dialogue between patients and health professionals supports, as far as possible, the existence of such assessments in order for patients to receive the best possible treatment. I mean, for example. the use of terms such as ‘treatment-resistant’ in dialogue with patients. It is a bad word because it should always be an offer of either treatment, care or other follow-up. But now I don't know if this is a word that has been used by healthcare, or if it is in the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e657	I thank you for your answer. We need to understand that patients who go in and out of psychiatry, and their relatives, feel that it's hard to deal with such things, and that you often feel powerless. That's why we don't hear about such things so often either. But we've got feedback on more such events, and I think it's nice that Frida – as in this case – actually stands out with her story, and that it becomes known, to Frida, and patients like her, should not be met that way by the health care system. Patients who are motivated for treatment but who are described as treatment-resistant should also not experience falling between two chairs. Therefore, I would like to ask the question a little more specifically: what will the Minister of Health be doing actively to ensure that the term ‘treatment-resistant’ disappears from the healthcare system and is not used?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e664	I ask for an understanding that I do not know the specific case to which it is referred, but I also perceive that the representative asks the question more in principle. It is also unclear to me whether ‘treatment resistance’ is an active word that is almost written into the patient’s journal. What I'm emphasising, and we're also coming back to it when it comes to the quality of health care, is that the user, the patient, should be more involved in the treatment and be closer to designing the offers, because the interaction between patients and those who treat is so important to the quality. And as I said in my post: I would say that the word ‘treatment-resistant’ should be quite foreign to Norwegian health services, because whether a treatment at this stage produces results and benefits is supported by what you have of knowledge. You can ask questions about this, but then there may be other offers the patient has. I think I should follow up on the question asked by the representative by looking into whether this is a term used, and what the consequences are if it is used in the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e675	We're taking it on a basic basis, precisely the fact that patients in the psychiatry who are sick are met with that term. It feels like a heavy load. For example, the mother said to the girl in this case – and I quote from the newspaper: ‘She was too sick to receive treatment now, perhaps it would be topical in a year or a half. But if Frida is to go home, it is not certain that she will survive for Christmas." In view of the fact that several people approached us about meeting them in the health service with ‘treatment-resistant’, we are pleased that the Minister of Health will look at how to prevent this from happening. If the Minister of Health could be more specific in what way he would follow up, it would have been very nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e685	I think there may be cases where, in order to use a non-medical term, a patient can be too ill to receive a certain type of treatment, and that one must be in a certain type of condition to receive a certain type of treatment. There are, as I said in my answer, different stages in which this is happening. At the same time, I say that it indicates that you are not in dialogue with the patient – and it is important – if you use the word ‘treatment-resistant’, because if you are resistant, I think the association goes to being unresponsive to anything, and is almost isolated. You may be too sick to receive a type of treatment, but I think I'll do it so that I'll ask myself in my own department and system to know if this is a term used, and whether it has a consequence that it is used, as the representative has asked questions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e696	‘Inhabitants in Health Nord with MS are in practice receiving consistent rejection of requests to participate in rehabilitation stays at the MS centre in Hakadal. This means that residents in a whole part of the country have been cut off from a specialised rehabilitation together with others who have the same disease experience. Does the Council of State mean that there should be such a difference between the regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e703	Good quality rehabilitation services are important both for individuals and for society and shall be accessible to all. There have been structural changes in the provision of services in recent years. In the specialist health service, rehabilitation services such as day-care and outpatient clinics are increasingly provided. Rehabilitation is also provided as an integral part of hospitalisation. Regional health enterprises have focused on strengthening the quality of the provision provided by the private training and rehabilitation institutions. This is one of the areas where there is a very good interaction between public hospitals and private institutions. Resources for the purchase of services from private training and rehabilitation institutions have increased, from about 996 million. DKK in 2005 to approximately 1525 million. kr in 2011. Rehabilitation involves processes involving many actors, including non-health care actors – such as the training seat and the Nav. Rehabilitation measures in the municipality are central and often require cooperation with specialist health services. The cooperation reform shall contribute to integrated and coordinated services. Of course, this is absolutely central to any rehabilitation process. Of course, the rehabilitation services provided by specialist health services to patients with MS need to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Regional health businesses are responsible — and they all have — for ensuring that MS patients, like all other patients, receive a good and relevant offer. In Health Nord, the MS unit at the neurological department of UNN coordinates the provision of this patient group. MS patients are offered rehabilitation services at UNN, and in addition, agreements have been made with Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre and the North-Norges Kurbad rehabilitation centre for offering MS patients. Health regions are responsible for providing good and relevant services to the population of the region where they are responsible. This also applies to specialised rehabilitation. Therefore, the assessment of whether individual patients should be offered at the relevant centre, for which the representative questions – the MS centre in Hakadal – is a question that needs to be assessed by professionally competent personnel in the region. I want to take a closer look at today's practice. The Ministry of Health and Health will assess whether the right to free hospital choice should also be extended to private training and rehabilitation institutions that have agreements with regional health establishments. This will be done in the context of the consultation notes on changes in patient and user rights law and the implementation of the Patient Rights Directive. It is now at the hearing, and we are waiting for feedback on it when the consultation period is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e718	Last week I received 3,741 signatures from an MS patient named Inger Martinussen. She's not just a MS patient, but she also has a doctorate in rehabilitation, and has herself been refused to travel to the MS centre in Hakadal. What you can see is that enterprises are increasingly trying to convert the rehabilitation into one rehabilitation that suits all patients, while some patients with diseases are deprived of the possibility of getting more specialised rehabilitation in institutions that have built up many years of competence — for example. The MS centre, which has 35 years of expertise in MS specifically. The second thing that it deprives the patient is the possibility of rehabilitation with many patients with similar life experience, who have a great added value. Will the Minister of Health take any steps to ensure that a person takes care of these specified rehabilitation institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e727	I think that with the work distribution we have, we should assume that the regional health company – here Health Nord – is assessing the professional resources available in the region. This does not prevent us from following up and asking questions about the assessments that have been made, in order to make sure, if necessary, that the public's concerns are understood and well-managed. But as I say, the region has given me a very clear response to the responsibilities of UNN and the hospital there, and the agreements they have with private rehabilitation institutions. I assume that they will then assume the responsibility they have by being able to offer individual, customised offers of rehabilitation to those who need it. It's also important with what's of patient exposure, which I have the impression that all the health regions are concerned about, but I don't want to stand out from the Storting's pulpit and decide with which individual institutions the region is going to conclude its agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e736	When these restrictions were introduced, the Nordlands Hospital argued that there were economic reasons for tightening this up and that there were no professional reasons. The user selection in Health Nord has also unanimously, in September, recommended that Health Nord again buy places on the MS centre in Hakadal, so that patients have the opportunity to travel there. Finally, however, in the main response, the Council of State said that one considered extending the free choice of hospitals to rehabilitation. I take that as a very positive signal. It is only when the patient is given the opportunity to choose between approved treatment institutions, that the patient’s own knowledge of both his or her own situation and of the treatment services available in the country is put at the centre, and that there is then the opportunity to become a leader. So here's a patient who has a doctorate in rehabilitation, and who probably knows a lot better than the hospital what's best for her.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e745	The last thing I can't decide – who knows best. I put great emphasis on, as I said in the previous answer, the dialogue between healthcare and the patient. I think it needs to be strengthened in a lot of contexts in order for us to feel that we have security and participation in the treatment that benefits us. The patient rights note is being consulted. We get a lot of input into it. I believe, in principle, that the primary responsibility for prioritisation must lie in public health – must lie in the assessments, the overview that public health has. We know that there is a significant element of private, non-profit and volunteers in the field of training and rehabilitation. That's why they're good and important partners for us. Then I won't stand here and say that there are economic and non-professional reasons that underlie the difficult balances to be taken by those responsible for prioritizing, in a situation where you probably always wish you had more resources for good purposes than what you have. But I feel confident that there are also decisions in Health Nord here regarding priorities, which are overall the best thing for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e758	‘The Ministry of Health has sent amendments to the provisions on criminal liability in the Biotechnology Act to be consulted. This applies, inter alia, to: questions about surrogati, but also all other key issues covered by the law. How does the Council of State feel that these changes can help prevent the exploitation of women and the violation of children’s rights and human dignity, and what signals does the Council of State think the consultation note provides for this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e765	It is true, as the representative says, that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has sent a proposal to consult on the amendment of the criminal law on biotechnology. Let me say that we adjust and clarify it, this to clarify the scope of criminal liability and clarify the applicable law in this area. The proposal includes, inter alia: that private individuals seeking or using offers which are not permitted under the Biotechnology Act in Norway cannot be penalised in Norway. It shall continue to be a criminal offence to offer, or to carry out, various forms of assisted fertilisation, foetal diagnosis and the like that are not permitted by the Biotechnology Act. This is a clear signal for health professionals. I think it is unfortunate that there is a ambiguity related to the issue of criminal liability. A legal text must be clear about who can be punished. There have been some uncertainties about who can be punished for violations of the Biotechnology Act. As early as June 2010, this was pointed out by an inter-ministerial working group which recommended that criminal liability be assessed in the context of the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. To clarify the criminal liability, we have therefore sent out this consultation proposal. The preparations for today’s law indicate that it was not the intention of the legislator to punish individuals who use offers that are not permitted under the Biotechnology Act in Norway. We want to clarify this in a new legal text. The Biotechnology Act only regulates what is happening in Norway. Although surrogati is not allowed in Norway, it does not prevent some from going abroad to use it. On its websites, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has published information on the risks of using surrogate mother abroad. This could be done, for example, by: be challenges related to the establishment of a parent. I think it would be unreasonable if these people were to be punished in addition. Persons who have used assisted conception are often in a vulnerable situation, with pregnancy or small children. The same may also be the case for persons using foetal diagnostics not authorised in Norway. As mentioned above, the proposal is for consultation. These are questions of many ethical dimensions and many difficult balances. I will go through the hearing answers carefully before I present a draft law to the Stortinge during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e784	The Council of State says that there is a clarification of the law. Jusprofessor Erling Husbø concluded in our country last Thursday that it is something far more than this. The Christian People's Party would like to have a discussion about the mechanism of the criminal law of the biotechnology law. We have to assume that we're talking about a global market of services that only imagination sets limits for. Then the discussion of criminal law might have to reflect that. But the paradox here is that they say there are difficult balances. There is nothing in the consultation note that bears the impression that these are difficult balances. There is no indication that you do not want the Norwegians to avail themselves of those offers. Therefore, I have to repeat the question to the Council of State: How does the Council of State think that these changes can help prevent the exploitation of women and violations of children's rights and human dignity? What signals does the Council of State think the consultation note conveys about these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e791	I would like to quote from the preparatory work that was done when the law was created. There it was, among other things. said: ‘As demonstrated by the Ministry of Justice and Police’s assessment, the actions of health professionals in Norway may, in the circumstances, be criminal participation under the Biotechnology Act, even if the action it is involved is not punishable in the country in which it is carried out. This applies initially also to researchers.’ Here the responsibilities of health professionals are very clearly clarified. I don't want to judge myself over the choices that individuals in a large global world make in this area with the legislation we have today. As the representative knows, we will be discussing the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act for spring. There may be proposals for changes to the law, and then we get a good reason to discuss what is allowed, and what is not allowed in Norway, in this area. But it has not been our opinion that we should go into this with a clarification that makes it criminal for people who do things abroad that are not legal – according to the law – in Norway. The representative mentions surrogati, but this may also apply, for example: assisted fertilisation, which occurs for 700 women per year in our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e805	I thank you for your answer. I am still amazed at the total lack of reflection on what these different issues involve, what kind of market we are talking about in practice. The question that I have now asked twice is quite simple: does the government want any kind of signal about what is believed to be what Norwegian citizens travel into the world and move out into that market – which on the one hand can be about a well-organized industry, as we see in California, which provides surrogacy services, and on the other hand can be wild west in developing countries to get services that only fantasy sets limits on? There is no doubt that the boundaries between surrogati and trafficking in human beings are extremely unclear. Does the government have any idea of Norwegian citizens going into that market? Do you have any ethical considerations that you would like to take with you when considering the criminal provisions of the Biotechnology Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e814	It could be tempting to ask the question back: What should be done to women who receive assisted fertilisation in Denmark, there are between 700 and 1000 of them this year, criminal when they return to Norway? It is the same issue, it is prohibited under Norwegian law, and it is done to a large extent. Are you going to jail, arrest and charge those women? For me, there are clear differences in that and surrogati, but no parts are law according to Norwegian law. Once we have adopted Norwegian law, we say something about what is happening in Norway. So it's a very strong norm signal. When surrogati is banned in Norway, it is a very strong norm signal from the Norwegian community. I believe that the social debate also sends out very clear signals about all the complexity around surrogati – many of the points that the representative also points to. But it is true that the legislator, by making this law, did not mean that criminal liability should go to the individual, but should go to the issue of participation – primarily directed at health professionals. We'll have a good opportunity to discuss this. The bill comes later and later to Stortinget. It's in consultation, and that's how we get good information and assessment in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e827	‘The Covent AS company in Rogaland has marked the effects of the financial crisis in Europe and, as a result of market failures, has authorised nine employees. However, these have been refused Nav’s daily allowance on the grounds that market fluctuations are considered to be ordinary business risk. The company has complained about the decision, but the complaint has been rejected. Does the Council of State consider that this type of handling of outsourced staff is appropriate for Norwegian business and Norwegian work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e834	In order to receive a daily allowance under leave, it is provided that the leave must be due to a lack of work or other conditions on which the employer cannot foresee or exercise influence. A number of enquiries from individuals, businesses and social partners in recent times may indicate that the Labour and Welfare Act practises the legislation on day-to-day pay during permitting more restrictively than in the past. A short time ago, I received a preliminary report on the practice of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. This report is now being followed up by several measures. Firstly, the budget is reviewed by 1 January 2012 on all appeals for daily allowances. If errors are found in the decision which led to the improper rejection of applications, they may give rise to the case being remedied. Secondly, work has also been started on developing new guidelines for the treatment of daily pay and permitting issues by the agency. This work involves both the LO and the NHO together with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. Thirdly, in order to deal with the issues before the revision of the circular is available, the Director of Labour and Welfare has also provided provisional treatment guidelines for the department. The review of the unit is now under way and must be resubmitted to the Ministry of Labour in a new report. I am committed to ensuring predictability for both workers and employers in matters of leave and daily allowance based on a proper practice within the framework of the People's Security Act. I trust that the measures I have now taken will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e851	Thanks for the answer. I think it is positive that the Council of State has addressed these issues. Access to skills and labour is, for many enterprises, a major bottleneck and a major challenge, especially in Rogaland in terms of labour market pressure there. The company now mentioned has not had permits for 15 to 20 years, and it is clear that it is important for this company to maintain competence. I hope that the Council of State can see that the practice that has been and that we are now hoping to have a change in can lead to companies having to make greater use of temporary employees instead of permanent employees. I hope that the Council of State also sees that in the event there would be an unfortunate development for Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e856	Now it is precisely this business in Bjerkreim and some others that is the starting point for this review because it may have been previously too liberal practice in terms of the legislation that has been, but that practice has been consistent with what has been the political leaders. If it is that it has been more difficult to get a daily allowance, then there has not been any change that we have wanted to make, and therefore it is necessary that we look at whether or not the legislation needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e861	What I read from the Council's response is that a review of the complaints from 1 January 2012 has been rejected and that these can then be converted. Does this also mean that those who have been denied a day’s allowance can later receive these payments? It is clear that for those who have to be without income for 12 weeks — often this will be about young people in an establishment phase, who would like to end and interrupt housing savings for young people and other things that have quite significant consequences for the individual — it will mean much that they may have a expectation that if the decisions are revised, they will be able to have the daily allowance for the period they have been licensed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e866	The answer to that is yes. If decisions are taken, the money will be refunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e875	‘The Government has promised the railway promises of the times. At the same time, we see that professional workers in Baneservice have to be cancelled because of a cut in the maintenance funds, and private operators report that they have to wind up if it is not soon to be more jobs to compete for. For example, on 12 November 2012, the VG states that no pick-up is to be carried out throughout 2013. The lack of maintenance is poor operation. Several delays may result. Why has the Railway Agency cut so significantly in maintenance funds for 2012 and 2013, and is this something that the Council of State accepts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e882	The Government’s proposal to grant the railway for 2013 corresponds to an increase of approx. 1.4 B.C.E. kr or 14,3 pst. in relation to the 2012 balanced budget. The increase in appropriations is intended to finance the rational continuation of investment projects under way and the further planning of Follobanen as well as its operation and maintenance. It is appropriate that the proposed maintenance appropriations for 2013 are slightly lower than the corresponding 2012 allocation, which was a historically high level. However, for the whole 2010–2013 planning period, the total appropriations for operation and maintenance are approx. 2 billion. kr higher than the operational and maintenance planning framework for the first planning period in NTP 2010–2019, or – in other words – an overall follow-up of 110 pst. in relation to the planned framework adopted. For operation and maintenance, a little at the top of 5 billion has been proposed. kr in 2013. That is about the same level as the 2012 budget. The budget is divided by a little over 3 billion. NOK for operation and a little over 2 billion. kr for maintenance. This implies a reduction of 14,5 pst. for maintenance in 2013 compared to the 2012 ageing budget. The reduction is due to the fact that in 2013 there will be a need to significantly strengthen the railway works’ operating budget. There is a need to increase the level of activity in several areas, in particular traffic management, winter preparedness, development of competence, rail recruitment, public information and planning. Within the proposed maintenance appropriations, which are still of a high quality, i.e.: approximately 2 billion kr, the Railway Agency has, on a professional basis, prioritised measures which, in the view of the department, give the best effect in the short term in order to have an infrastructure where trains can walk safely and where they can proceed according to the timetable. The Ministry of Transport sees no reason to overestimate the level of assessment of how best to dispose of the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e893	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. From the answer it sounds as if I should be very satisfied. What I hear, however, is that the government spends money on investment, but so let the rails fall due – will build new ones, but let the rails fall due. The size has increased annually the transfers to the Railway Agency for operation and maintenance, but much indicates that the money disappears to other things in 2012 and 2013. It's about two billion. kr for maintenance from the State budget, that is also said by the Council of State, each year in 2012 and 2013, but the acquisition calendar of the Railway Agency estimates acquisitions in the first half of this year of 130 million. Total kr. So when the government then promises the railway launch of the times and at the same time deprioritises the maintenance on the railway, I think it has to be cleaned up. The alerts on termination and non-compliance of operators because there is a drought in the market require their explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e898	As I have mentioned, the level of railway operation and maintenance has been historically high in recent years – at the same level in 2013 as in 2012, but in 2013 a priority has been given to the operations side to a greater extent than to the maintenance side. The priority of the operational side includes, inter alia: to have good traffic management and to have good winter preparedness. It is also necessary to ensure that railway disciplines are maintained and that there is good information, not least to the new base route model, which is now coming into force soon, and that there is sufficient means of planning. This means that a choice has been made with regard to the prioritisation of operations in relation to the prioritisation of maintenance. It is, in the opinion of the Railway Agency, a correct priority, and the Ministry of Transport will not review it in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e903	Thanks for the answer. I still hear that the government promises gold and green forests, but that the railway works fail in delivery. It will be expensive to downgrade maintenance, such as: doll cleaning. Then the government pushes a very high bill ahead, and the regularity, accuracy and operation of the railway suffer as a result. The railway works cannot comply with existing contracts for maintenance work – there is now feedback in the press. For the Skills Myr contract, the railway company has asked for the last 50 million kroner. The contract will be paid out in 2014 and you cannot pay today. Baneservice cancels 30 to 50 trade union workers, and in 2013 no funds have been allocated for pick-up cleaning, which should be done every year. So the track partner says they have no contracts to compete for on the whole Sørlandsbanen. Drying in the market, down-priority maintenance, and we're on arrears with the maintenance already.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e910	The appropriations made by this government for the operation and maintenance of the Railway Agency have been historically high and higher than any government before us. Within the proposed maintenance appropriations of more than 2 billion. kr, the Railway Agency has, on a professional basis, prioritised the measures which, in the opinion of the Authority, are most effective, both in terms of safety and in terms of compliance with the timetable. I have to leave to the Railway Agency as a specialist body to assess what is the correct use and disposal of the available funds. It also applies to impacts and capacity, e.g.: in the case of ballast cleaning, which is one of the areas in which they have a contract with Baneservice. Of course, in the Ministry of Transport, we could overestimate that priority, but I think it is wrong to ask the Railway Agency to re-prioritize or deprioritize operations or other maintenance tasks to award contracts to a company owned by the Ministry of Transport. For the rest, track service is a company that has also had a long-term low profitability and where the market potential and the volume of its operations have been lower than expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e919	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘The economy in the forestry industry is relatively poor at the moment. This is due to both high costs and low prices. What will the Council of State contribute to increasing the competitiveness of our neighbouring countries and thus contribute to a better economy for industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e928	Norway has significant renewable forest resources. Forestry is an important district industry with a high economic importance nationally, regionally and not least locally in Hedmark. In total, 25 000 people are employed in the forest and wood industries, and in 2010 the forest industry in Norway had a turnover of 44 billion. kr, corresponding to 5,8 pst. of turnover in Norwegian industry. Forest industries operate in a free market and are exposed to competition both in the domestic market and in their export markets. The economic situation in Europe is an important reason why industry is now facing major market challenges. The best thing we can do for this sector in the future is to ensure predictable framework conditions and to pursue the economic policy of this government. In addition, the forest sector is one of the truly large transport users in this country. The focus of the red-green government on road and rail development is therefore of great importance for the competitiveness of the forest sector. According to the Norwegian Forestry Association, only the improvement at Åsta Bru in Hedmark has a value of more than 2 million. kr annually in reduced costs. In addition, the Red-Green Government has implemented a number of measures in the field of forest policy that contribute to increasing the competitiveness of forestry in a challenging market situation: The Forest Fund Scheme was significantly improved in 2007 by increasing its tax-free share and by extending its scope. An action package was launched in the revised national budget in 2009 of 70 million. kr for bioenergy, establishment of an energy tile scheme and increased framework for a three-tier innovation programme. This helped to mitigate the negative effects of the financial turmoil on employment and value added. The subsidy framework for forestry and bioenergy has been increased from approx. 203 million. kr in 2005 to approx. 340 million. kr in the 2013 budget – an increase of approximately 137 million. kr. Three-based innovation programmes have been pursued with full strength and contribute to increased wood use and innovative wood-based production and applications. An action package was implemented in the revised national budget in 2012 targeting actions for a hard hit woodworking industry, a total of 100 million. SEK, of which 50 million. kr to R & D, innovation and conversion actions from the Ministry of Industry and Trade budget, and 50 million. to increase the availability of forest resources through strengthening investments in quays, timber terminals, forest roads and cableway operations above the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I focus on a further follow-up of the Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012, Agriculture and Food Policy, Welcome to the table, where the government helps to strengthen a number of forest, wood and bioenergy measures, as well as environmental efforts. Together with a sensible economic policy and a strong commitment to transport, the government provides a good basis for the forest industry to meet the market challenges we face. A sign that many people want to bet within forests by day is the great interest in buying the properties of Statskog, which is now being put out for a historically large sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e957	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the newspaper Nations, which I assume the Council of State reads, it says on November 13: «The import of timber products has increased by half a billion dollars to date this year. – Consumption is growing, but Norwegian producers lose market share, warns NHO.’ Looking at the figures, it turns out that imports of veneer, laminate and processed wood products are increasing – wood products are increasing, and wood loads are increasing. What doesn't increase is paper and cardboard, but it's quite natural when you need it less, for example. in newspapers. Isn't this number bothering the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e967	The forest and wood processing industries are highly competitive industries. Then I am very concerned that we are constantly going to be able to work on measures that ensure the competitiveness of the large and significant value chain that we have in the industry in Norway. My starting point is that there are two main measures that are the most important for the forest industry. One is transport and transport costs, that we need to have an offensive policy to reduce transport costs within the industry, among other things. with the restoration of Åsta Bru, as we do now, that gets down costs in the industry. The second is fiscal policy and fiscal policy is predictable. This was one of the major challenges in the period 2001–2005, including: the change in the average equation system several times over a short period of time, which created very unpredictability for the industry. In addition, the different grants are added. But the most important thing is transport policy and fiscal policy – economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e972	I thank the Council of State for those comments. The countries we compete with and import from are not just low-cost countries. It's the rest of the Nordic region, it's Germany, but it's also low-priced as the Baltic region, for example, so it's both. To the Council of State replied: I fully agree with the idea of transport. I had that question last Wednesday, this about forestry and transportation. Forestry needs a good transportation network, there's no doubt about it. The other thing that I also agree with the Council of State — and the Council of State agrees with me, to say the same — concerns fiscal policy. We have recently seen that this is a part of the practice, for example. which is subject to very high taxes on wealth and property because of the machinery contained in a building. Another thing is the inheritance tax, for example, in order to get the next generation to take over. So we have a lot to deal with, and transportation and tax policy are part of this. So while a lot is being built and cleaned up in Norway, we still buy a lot from the rest of the world of these products.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e979	We see different challenges for forestry in different parts of the country. The home state of the representative Bredvold and the undersigned have the advantage that it is close to the Swedish wood processing industry. This means that when a part of the Norwegian woodworking industry has faced challenges, there has been provision for quite a lot of mass work on the Swedish side. It illustrates how competitive Norwegian timber processing and Norwegian forestry are, because we do not receive a full stock disposal, nor is it profitable with the sawmill. So I just want to take a relationship in the end that we haven't been so much into, and it's going on in the general economic policy, because forestry is very affected by exchange rate changes. It has been a goal for the Centre Party to be able to hold back a little on the use of money over public budgets and not use the entire space for action within the action rule. We believe that the pressure in the Norwegian economy is high enough. There we have a different approach than the Progress Party, which wants to spend more oil money. We've been afraid that it would contribute to even higher exchange rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e990	‘The various film festivals in Norway are financed mainly by taxes on the sale of DVD/Blu-ray. Developments show a sustained decline in these sales and therefore create challenges for the various film festivals. I am aware that the Ministry of Culture is working on alternative financing in the future. However, for the film festivals, the funding problem is acute, and the government does not change the state budget for 2013. How will the Council of State contribute to a solution for the festivals already in 2013 and predictability in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e997	Film & Kino is responsible for the funding of the contributions to the various film festivals. The funds are distributed by an independent, wide-ranging festival support selection with Film & Kino as a secretariat. This system came into place after St.meld. No 22 for 2006–2007, the Wizard, also known as the Film Message. In the same message, it was decided that the scheme should be financed by the Norwegian Cinema and Film Fund fee. There was also something the Storting joined. From 2008 onwards, all the festivals that received funding from various public bodies received their support from the Festival Selection. The conversion made it easier for the film festivals to seek support, and that the festival support selection was independent gave the scheme legitimacy. It is right, as the representative Kambe points out, that the tax revenue of Norwegian cinema and film funds is being reduced. The fund income is derived from the videogram turnover charge. Since the DVD-salt has decreased significantly in recent years and has been replaced by electronic commerce, the revenue of the Fund has decreased. This has resulted in Film & Kino having a lot of distributions of revenue across all its posts, including the film festivals. However, the festivals have been significantly increased since the film release. This means that although the overall level has fallen slightly over the last few years, it is important to stress that the level of aid remains about twice as high as in 2007. The Ministry of Culture is now deliberating whether it is possible to impose a charge on the electronic movement of videograms. This will bring back the fund income of Norwegian cinema and film funds and contribute to more seniority for the film festivals and others who receive support through the fund in the future. With regard to the situation of the 2013 film festivals in particular, the Ministry of Culture in the 2013 budget presented the Kortfilmfestival in Grimstad and the New Nordic Films in Haugesund have partially re-entered the state budget. This means that there will be more to be distributed in the Norwegian cinema and film fund pot for 2013, and that will benefit the other film festivals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e1012	Thanks for the answer. I'm pleased with what the government has done, which I expect the Storting to join, in terms of the two film festivals the Council of State mentions. But it is a problem when the country's seven major professional film festivals make a joint letter to the entire cultural committee and say that for 2013 – despite getting more than in 2007, costs have increased since 2007 – nothing has been done. Because this is nothing new. The warning about the decline in DVD sales is not something that the department was told about just before Christmas this year or just before summer. This has been known for a long time, and so one has not managed to come up with an alternative solution that could actually have been implemented, for example. from the revised budget 2012, which had actually become effective in full from 2013. What is then my first follow-up question is: Has the Council considered putting support schemes under either the Culture Council or the Ministry's own support schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e1019	Some of the reasoning behind doing it this way, that one has a festival support selection, is that one thinks that the scheme one had before, where both the NFI and the Ministry of Culture also had to turn to to get support, was inappropriate. I feel that the Festival Support Selection scheme has a wide disintegration, but that the discussion is linked to their revenue and the possibilities they have for distribution. I acknowledge the point made by the representative, Kambe, that the cost side of the festivals looks different now than it did in 2007, but an increase corresponding to a double since 2007 is a considerable increase on that side. So I also think that the work done to clear out the possibility of introducing a charge on the electronic translation of videograms will have an impact on the total that the Festival Support Selection could distribute. That's what we want to do before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e1026	I am pleased to hear that the Council of State says that this change can be achieved from the practically revised state budget in 2013, which is now announced. We expect to see that. The council also noted that the Kortfilmfestival in Grimstad and the New Nordic Films in Haugesund have run into next year's state budget, helping to increase funding for the others. Another suggestion that has been made several times is that the Norwegian film festival in Haugesund has its own node function. The ministry has so far said no, but the impression is that there has been no more at the level of office than at the political level. My question to the new Minister of Culture, who was not at the meeting of the Minister of Culture at the Haugesund Film Festival in August, where the vast majority of former Norwegian cultural ministers and Liv Ullmann asked that this should actually happen now is: Will the Minister of Culture, for example. visit the film festival in Haugesund and launch that now is the time for node function there as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e1033	I am happy to visit the film festival in Haugesund, but I can already inform you that I have no plans to distribute additional node status to other film festivals than the one that is happening today, which is the Short Film Festival in Grimstad. So I just want to stress in the context of the word exchange we had instead of the proposition that I imagine we'll put forward before summer at the charge of electronic translation of videograms: it's a proposition that I'm going to put forward before summer, I'm not going to decide whether this should be included in the revised version.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e1040	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-21.ana.ud530e1053	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. It does not appear that anyone is asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled. - The meeting's been cancelled.
