ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e26	The representative of Øyvind Waksdal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e31	On behalf of the representatives of Vigdis Giltun, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for amendments to the Working Environment Act that allow workers to work at the age of 75.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e36	The representative, Siri A. Meling, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e39	On behalf of the representatives Henning Skumsvoll, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Borghild Tenden and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on user representation in Statnet's bodies, a national plan for power lines and cost allocation in the central network. On behalf of the representatives Henning Skumsvoll, Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on a forward-looking network structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e46	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e58	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide and the State Councils Ola Borten Moe and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Oskar J. Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e65	My question goes to the Borten Moe. On 8 October this year, a press release came from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, where one cryptically cancels the long-awaited energy message. This reacts very much, and when one looks for in the energy message history, there is a frightful example of a lack of caution. If we go back a few years, we see that the State Council rejected the need for an energy message, while Åslaug Haga warned a big message in 2007-2008. Then Terje Riis-Johansen came and put Haga's performance project on the shelf late in 2008. So Riis-Johansen turns around in 2010 and announces that an energy message comes anyway, and an energy selection was set down to create a NOW. Today's State Council, Borten Moe, received the energy distribution in 2012, and the OED presents the status of energy policy, at the same time as the State budget, and endorses this outlay of energy. In other words, the energy message is rejected once again. Does the Council of State think that this lack of precaution is the way to treat Norway's most important industries, not least because we are one of the world's largest energy nations, and that the income from this represents a third party of its income – and therefore also the welfare society we know today? So it takes seven years and four central government councils, and it's on the ground. The husband of a lack of action! Is state councillor Away Moe really comfortable with this completely unattainable way of treating Norway's largest export port, when we see the changes that occur within gas, within all the energy forms that are important to our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e76	First, to clarify the last representative, Grimstad, Norway’s largest export industry. I guess that's the oil and gas industry. It has just received a broad treatment through the notification of petroleum, to which a unanimous decision was taken last year. When it comes to energy policy, which is described as unpredictable, I will take a great deal of distance from such a description of reality. On the contrary, there is a very powerful government, which, through both climate communication, online messaging and green certificates, has facilitated a very predictable energy policy in Norway. It shall ensure fair, fair, predictable supply, good framework conditions for investments by producers and in the Norwegian central network. It was well on the way confirmed by the Energy Committee, and I believe that this government, through its actions and policies, has, in the last few years, arranged for what we now see: a historic uplift in production, a historic uplift in the investments in the transmission system – that we as a nation should thus have a proper, secure and good utility network, safe and good power supply, in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e83	This energy message is not something that the Progress Party is about to request. NHO asked for her, lo asked for her. All environmental protection organisations ask for it. Energy Norway is asking for it, and everyone thinks that this is a foundation for achieving the climate and environmental goals that we, as a nation, have committed ourselves to. We've all registered the internal power struggle in the Center Party, where party leader Navarsete is trying to deport parts of state council Borten Moe's crew. Of course, most people can think of the background of this, because I find that the Council of State has made the State Secretary who used to be in Nature and Youth keep an eye on it. Then the question is: is it that Norwegian industry – and the nation otherwise – must accept to be the victims of internal struggle in the Center Party, or will the Council of State now pass through and end this process once and for all and come to the Stortinget with a prolonged energy message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e88	I think that instead of making general criticisms about not providing an energy message, you should at least say something about why you want an energy message – that is, what parts of Norwegian energy policy are that have not been put in place by both the government and this room in recent years? What are the defects? What are the challenges? What haven't we solved? I want to report the following with all due respect, and it is that this government has now – and throughout the period – led a policy that leads to historical investment, which now leads to the solution of many of the challenges associated with the lack of transmission systems, which means that we have a secure and good and predictable power supply. Then, with respect, reporting the energy challenges in this nation is solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e93	Three follow-up questions have been asked — so far — and it is given an opportunity. The first follow-up question is from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e98	I've had a lot of respect for State Councillor Borten Moe. He has been pursuing a very good energy policy, in line with the wishes of the Progress Party for a long time. Now he's starting to fail. A big message is a strategy paper, and we must not fool ourselves into thinking that just because it has been a year that has been wet and mild, the underlying situations in the force situation have improved. It's been no more than a year since we had record power prices, not least in the state council's home country. At that time, the Council of State called for rather aggressive measures to counter that situation. To give the impression that he has had a red thread, a rough course, in energy policy, is at least not former government councils in this government agree. Åslaug Haga was councillor for two councillors since. She found in her book launch that she did not recognize the energy policy that is being pursued today, compared to the one she was conducting. So it's happening within the same government platform, and the same party that rules, that one runs a completely conflicting energy policy. That's why we want an energy message for Stortinget. Would you like to promote a strategy communication and present it to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e103	We are not going to present a big message about Norwegian energy policy in addition to the documents we have already presented. If we look back at the last one and a half years and see what happened, the big thing is the government has presented. Firstly, an online message has been provided, clarifying the prerequisites for the development of the central network in Norway — an important prerequisite for success. The size has been presented and has ratified the Green Certificate Agreement and the Renewable Directive, which provides Norway with the highest renewable share worldwide – a historically offensive initiative. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has granted a concession for several kilometres of high-speed lines than in any other period before, while granting a concession to a record high number of wind turbines and hydropower stations. It is not possible to just point out that you need a message. You also have to say why you want a message and what problems you might want to solve. I believe that this is not just control of, this is firm, steady governance ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e110	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e113	The energy investigation is a very good document, in which many people and professionals have put a lot of work into it. For the Right, it is important to use that basis to look forward, not just towards 2020, as much of the things the Council of State refers to are about, but beyond 2020. Energy is about long-term sustainability. For us, it is about what position Norway should have as an energy nation, among other things. in relation to Europe. It's about what position we're going to take to take to take advantage of the potential for value creation, technology development, etc. That's why, in our opinion, we need an energy message that can give us these visions beyond 2020. Our conclusion is that government in many ways only chooses a simple outcome by describing a situation, rather than addressing the long-term challenges after 2020. My question is whether the internal unrest within the government makes it impossible to be visionary within the energy field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e119	No, on the contrary. I would like to say that the energy policy we are pursuing is not only good and satisfactory in the short term but above all has a long-term perspective. We're going to have a renewable share of 67.5 pst. in 2020. It is the highest renewable share in Europe, the highest renewable share in the world. It points forward, and the way in which it is achieved is through investments in networks and in production, a better balance of power and by facilitating investment in business and production across the country. The investments we're making now are more long-term than very many of the other investments we're making. I am aware that the representative Meling has been concerned about the relationship we are going to have with the rest of Europe. Well, it's also a policy that's been put in place. Through the investments currently made in networks and transmission capacity to the rest of the world, Norway will take an even stronger position in terms of the potential for regulatory power and added value creation in the Norwegian power system. There is, in my view, no question mark that can be put in Norwegian energy policy, which justifies an energy message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e126	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e129	I'm going to give tribute to the Council of State for having come up with various messages, and it's true that he says he's come up with a kerosene message, there's been a climate announcement, and green certificates have finally come into place, even if there was a five-seven-year postponement. But the great vision of the Christian People's Party in the field of energy is to be able to see the relationship between the different sectors, i.e. to see the climate objectives, renewable energy and oil and gas into a context. What I experience as the big challenge is that this government provided a climate message that provided significant cut in CO2 emissions, which is good, but at the same time presents a petroleum message that adds to increased CO2 emissions, which is not good, and which is contrary to what was adopted through the climate communication. Then the question is, is it that you don't want to see this in context, which is why you can't create a document that takes on the fact that one affects the other? The fact that a person just doesn't want that connection, is that what makes a person choose to postpone or drop the energy message?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e140	First of all, the Christian People's Party has joined both of these government messages, so to the extent that the Christian People's Party believes that there is a contradiction between them, they must be largely in the Christian People's Party's own universe, I think, because there is no contradiction between them. Rather on the contrary, here we add up to a consistently good race where the different sectors are integrated into each other. We are going to make Norwegian oil and gas production more efficient, we are going to use a lot more power from countries to reduce, in isolation, the emissions from the Norwegian oil and gas industry, while investing heavily in transmission systems, in production and in energy efficiency improvement. Overall, this is a coherent, predictable and offensive energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e145	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e148	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A month ago, the government presented the European Communication. It may have come a little under the shadow of the Nobel Prize award by the Nobel Committee, but at the presentation the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that a single government is behind Norway's going to be much worse off without the EEA Agreement. It took about two hours for the class struggle to begin the work of finding out that it did not mean much of the government. Both the SV leader Audun Lysbakken and the center party leader Liv Signe Navarsete disagreed with the statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In addition, they could state that in the future they were no longer on the basis of the compromise on the basis of which the red-green government was founded, namely that it should be based on the EEA Agreement. Liv Signe Navarsete said: ‘If we continue to govern on the basis of the EEA Agreement, there are any new government negotiations and the strength relationship between the parties there that decide.’ The question of whether a future red-green government should govern the EEA Agreement is therefore at risk. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about the fact that it is now completely unclear what should be the basis for a future EU red-green government exposure to these opinions? I have registered that someone in the Labour Party has had quite clear opinions on this, for example. Martin Kolberg has said something that I think is quite wise. He has stated that if this continues, it makes us ‘incompetent’ – with a clear, clear address to the SVs and the Central Party’s attack on the EEA Agreement. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with Martin Kolberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e160	The government, as the representative of Solberg rightly said, did, for approx. a month ago, a good and thorough notification of Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement and the other agreements. It confirms the government’s view that the EEA Agreement has served us very well. The country and Norwegian economy have gone well since we joined the EEA Agreement, and the government is governed on the basis of the EEA Agreement. The NOU developed by Professor Sejersted on Norway’s relationship with the EU confirmed once again that Norway is the world’s most active country in the EU without being part of the EU, and that we have very close and broad cooperation, which no other non-member country has in the same way as us, in economics, justice policy and defence and security policy. We made a statement yesterday in the Chamber on our European policy, which is, therefore, the government's European policy. It is totally out of the question for the Workers' Party to be in a government that is leaving the EEA. The only option for the EEA would be membership of the EU and, as you know, it is not on the agenda. But then it is that when you enter into negotiations for a new government statement, after we have won the elections for the autumn, the parties will enter into those negotiations with their primary positions. If we were to get a different government in this country against assumption, I realize that even the parties that would make it would have some positions to negotiate before coming to a government statement. In fact, it is quite natural, and therefore our wording in the EEA in Soria Moria and the 2009 government platform are very similar to the wordings such as: was in the Sem declaration in its time, and was the product of an equivalent type of reconciliation between EU, EEA and EEA batches.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e167	I think it was a very clarifying answer. That means that what was the basis for the 2005 Red-Green Party elections is no longer ‘a clear basis before’. I can say, I think, on behalf of the four parties who are in opposition, and who want a civil government, that we are going to be in agreement with the EEA Agreement. I don't think that's a problem. The main link with Europe has been clarified, established and completed. That means that there is a more clear position on the civil side than there is on the government's side on this issue. But that's not what I really asked. What I asked about was the relationship with Martin Kolberg's statement, where he says that SV's attack on the EEA Agreement and the Central Party's attack must simply end, because if this continues, it makes us 'incompetent'. Is that not what we have seen in a number of cases, that this government is unable to influence and expand the space for action, because it is unable to resolve important questions before the EU takes the decision? Then we'll be sitting there saying yes or no, veto or not veto, rather than having made national adaptations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e174	I understand the representative of Solberg's desire to be so doubtful where there is little basis for finding doubt, but I would like to remind you that we have now run for over seven years. In that period, integration in Europe has continued with full strength. We took over, for example: a problem that the previous government had not solved, namely participation in the European Defence Agency, EDA. After approx. One year by power, we managed to get Norway into the EDA, and we are now one of the biggest contributors in absolute terms to that cooperation. In a number of other areas too, this government has continued a close and good integration in Europe – as the representative of Solberg and I agree is very important in the future too – and there is a massive majority in this room for the EEA Agreement. I think it will actually be, regardless of the other outcomes of the next harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e181	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e184	When the Stortingen dealt with the European Communication in 2006, there was a cross-political consensus that an early entry into processes was needed to influence this. Now, in the example of the renewable directive, one sees Europe's renewable power, Norway, sitting on foot, sitting outside, passive in the negotiations, coming in very late, and the EU adopts a directive without taking Norway into account. We saw the same thing when Norway was passive in relation to compensation for the impact on the electricity price resulting from the EU climate quota market. What we see is that Norway makes a few recordings, and we make late recordings. We are not the driver that we should have been, we are sitting passive and waiting, and we wait so long that we finally have one answer that must be given: yes or no. Are we not already incapacitated in European policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e196	Let me first refer to the same investigation from the Sejersted committee, which does give a reasonable objective answer to the last one. It has therefore been a major adaptation to the EU over the last seven years. A number of directives have been implemented, we have entered into new cooperation projects that were not there when we took over in 2005, and the NOU has certainly not clarified any significant difference in the approach to this between the government that has been sitting in the last seven years, and before that, in terms of the degree of integration into the EU or the willingness to enter the EU. It is true that in order to maximise the influence we have after all, all the time we adapt to the EU without being a member, we need to be early present in the processes. We have to choose our kind, and we have to decide what is important to us. It is the main message in the message we have just submitted, and it was also the main message in my comprehensive statement to the Stortinget about this yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e203	Karin S. Woldseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e206	I can confirm what the representative of Solberg says that at least for the Progress Party, together with the Right, the EEA Agreement is agreed. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs is aware, the Progress Party is a strong supporter of the four freedoms of the European market and Norway's participation in this market through the EEA Agreement. Sees the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the government's opposition to different directives, for example: the postal directive, could it harm Norway and the participation of Norwegian industry in the internal market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e213	I want to start by saying that also I and the party I represent are strongly attached to the four freedoms. We are part of a government that has just said that the four freedoms as a whole are important for the Norwegian economy, and that we must build on that. Where we may disagree, there is in the notion that some in the opposition are trying to create, that in order to be involved, you have to be civil and adapt to everything that comes, that there is no room to stand up for Norwegian interests. We had a very clear evidence of this yesterday, as it was a massive drive towards increasing customs duties on a few oysters from the EU. So it was a disaster and the closest basis for us to go out of the whole agreement – similar to the postal directive. It is an action room, and we have described in the message how the space for action can be better used than one has done, but also inspired by the fact that we actually see that we have made a reservation on the Postal Directive. As I have observed, it has not led to any breakdown in Norway’s interaction with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e220	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e223	This round on the position of the EEA Agreement in Stortinget and in various government options has been very elucidating. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was extremely clear in his reply to the representative Erna Solberg when he said that it was completely out of date for the Workers' Party to sit in a government that did not base the EEA Agreement. I can only confirm what the representative Solberg said about the position of any alternative government on the same issue. However, despite this clarity by the Workers' Party and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is an intense activity to raise the question of alternatives to the EEA Agreement, about the announcement of the EEA and some diffuse idea of a trade agreement that nobody knows what is. It takes place primarily in the red-green camp, it takes place in two out of three government parties, and it takes place in the different parts of the Landsorganisation. My final question is: Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs ensure that there is clarity across the whole red-green team?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e232	I feel quite confident that the EEA Agreement is very solid in this room and in Norwegian policy, and that it will work well until we have a new discussion on membership of the European Union. I understand that the opposition is concerned that a certain debate should be able to rock it, and that therefore it is preferable to sweep any debate under the carpet, so that we can all sit quietly in the boat and not confuse others. I'm not worried. I experience the professional movement as a solid supporter in terms of our work towards the EEA. I respect the fact that the trade union movement has raised questions about the consequences of some plays and directives on the rules of the labour market. That is why we say that what we should especially use our room for action is to maintain the support bars in the negotiation model – in the strike rights and how the working life is organised. But we're going to do that in the framework of the EEA Agreement, not by looking for alternatives to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e239	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e242	This question is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Recently, we have witnessed an alarming development in the Middle East. The rebellion against the Assad regime has cost almost 40,000 lives. There are 400,000 people who have fled Syria, 1.2 million people are internally displaced, and in the last few days we have seen a development that drags Israel into the conflict. The Palestinian rocket attacks against Israel have been taking place for a long time, but they have intensified sharply in recent days. The attacks on Saturday, Sunday and Monday are the most serious and extensive in one day since the Israeli warfare against the Gaza Strip around 2008-2009. At the Golan Height, Israeli forces have been responding to Syrian fire for the first time since 1973. If Israel were to be dragged into fighting in Syria, this would lead to a whole new level. Both Israel and Syria are military major powers in the region. They have strong air weapons and a large arsenal of tanks, missiles and other weapons. At the same time, there have also been over time serious strikes at the border between Turkey and Syria. The situation is now so tense and has such a dangerous potential that in all the capitals of the Western world, you discuss what you can do to dampen the tension in the area. I would like to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs' assessment of the latest developments in the situation and know what Norway is doing, and is thinking of doing, alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e253	I would first like to thank the High Commissioner for a very important question about perhaps the greatest crisis we are experiencing right now, and fully share his description of reality. It is not just a deep tragedy in Syria, but it is a conflict that threatens peace in the region. In the case of rocket attacks on Israel, we have said very clearly that they are, of course, totally unacceptable. We recognise Israel's right to defend itself. We remembered, as we always do, that the answer must be proportional and legitimate, but Israel obviously has the right to defend itself against that kind of attack on Israeli soil. As far as Turkey is concerned, I want to stress that I think what we've seen in the last few weeks is that NATO works, because Turkey chose, instead of a strong military reaction, to go to the NATO Council, to ask for a declaration of solidarity that they got from everyone, including us, that we were united behind Turkey's security. It seems to have had a somewhat damping effect on that escalation, but I'm probably so worried about, for example. progress towards Lebanon. All of this illustrates the importance of getting something done with the conflict itself, and as I think everyone in the room knows, this isn't just a civil war, it's also a general settlement between Persian and Iranian versus Arab influence in the region. A number of countries are directly involved, on both sides of the conflict, and it is much more than just an internal settlement. We have noted with satisfaction that a certain assembly of the opposition is now taking place, and expressed our view of the new National Council as a legitimate representative of the Syrian people. It is a step forward because the opposition has been deeply divided so far, and the attempts to gather together are important. It makes it easier to relate to this. Finally, I would like to say that Norway is a major humanitarian contributor through both the United Nations system and humanitarian organisations to those affected in Syria and beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e264	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e268	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I want to grab one element in it. On Monday, according to the NRK, 119 rockets from Gaza were shot at civilian targets in Israel, cities like Sderot where people live their everyday lives. I even visited that city for a while back. They live daily, constantly afraid of when the next attack will come, and whether they will be hit next time. So we're talking about attacks as one-sided civil targets. So the Foreign Minister says that Israel has the right to defend itself, defend its borders, and we fully agree with that. But the countermeasures must be proportional, it is difficult to disagree, but it is very tempting to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what are the proportional countermeasures against 119 rockets in one day against civilian targets in Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e275	Any State must act in line with international humanitarian law and other legal bases. That means attacking military targets, for example. those firing missiles are legitimate. Civil damage in the vicinity is not legitimate, at least if it can be regarded as intentional in any way, that sufficient precautions have not been taken to avoid it. There have also been counter-reactions, both military and non-military, on the Gaza side. But there must be no doubt that the aggressor here is groupings in Gaza and the victim is Israel, who has been subjected to this missile attack, and I have made that clear in my comments on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e282	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e285	I think it was a simple explanation of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs puts in ‘proportional’, because in the Norwegian debate one sometimes gets the impression that when Israel is going to react, one should be careful with a written enquiry if one could please stop shooting these rockets. It has been proportional, not least from many in the red-green clay. It must also be a cross-reference that it is the Palestinian self-government authorities in the West Bank who are fighting the Hamas regime in Gaza, and that it is this state that is now applying for some kind of high status in the UN. Norway’s response to this must be a cross of thought in the light of recent developments. But my question goes to Syria and the National Council. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see a positive trend towards this actually being a council that could constitute a legitimate opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e292	To the question of the National Council, it is our hope that this grouping will appear so broad, so united, that we can arrive at a situation where this is the opposite of the negotiation. We're not ready to say that it's the only representative of the Syrian people, we just don't know enough about that. Among other things, I have I note that all participants in this council are men, and the attempts to bring women have failed. There are also other reasons to ask questions about whether this represents the whole of the opposition, but we've gone a step further, and that's good. So to the comment on Gaza and the West Bank, there must be no doubt that the Palestinian authorities cannot be given any responsibility for these missile attacks, so they come from an area where they do not have real control, and it is definitely not in their interest to do so either. This, of course, affects the deeper, underlying conflict in a negative way, also from their point of view, so that it would affect a possible vote, I do not fully understand the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e299	Peter N. Myhre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e302	I think a lot of people agree with me when I say that the government is unclear about the Middle East conflict, and maybe a little one-sided. So Norway is dumping huge amounts of aid to the Palestinian side of the conflict. In the case of Israel, it has not been very long since one of the government's councillors, when Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, took the magazine from his mouth and proposed a boycott of the State of Israel. My question is: how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs evaluate these things, and what will the Minister for Foreign Affairs do to present a strategy for a balanced Norwegian view of the Middle East conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e309	It surprises me that we are unclear in the Middle East conflict. It may be that the explanation is that we have a different view of the Middle East conflict, but it may be something other than immortality. I can try to figure out what we mean. We believe that Israel and the people of Palestine are best served with a two-state solution. It's a position we share with the Israeli government, the American government, with the Palestinian self-government and almost everyone else in the world under the Oslo agreement, that the goal is a two-state solution. Then we have undertaken to coordinate international assistance to the Palestinian self-government authorities, among other things. Israel has repeatedly expressed its satisfaction. I myself conducted the AHLC meeting, that is, the meeting of the donor country group, where we were very concerned that we now have to be able to keep the Palestinian institutions alive for a while longer, until we get a new political process going. I am deeply concerned that we are now seeing the end of the belief that it will be possible to achieve a two-state solution. It is not in the interest of Israel or Palestine. That is the basis for our efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e316	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e319	I would first like to make it clear that I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister is finally stating today that Israel has a legitimate right to self-defense. But in the meantime, the Assad regime operates with its brutal acts of violence, as the representative Højbråten has described, month after month. We have seen that gradually a nation such as France, the Arab League and the Gulf States have gone to the recognition of coalitions and the opposition as the legitimate representatives of the Syrian people. To the NRK, Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide says that it is important that the world community is as united in this situation as possible. This rather hesitant statement, could it indicate that we still have to wait for Iran, for China, for Russia to decide for action?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e326	I've said earlier and so late as a few minutes ago, that we're happy that it now seems to be a collection of the opposition, because one of many problems in Syria is that there have been a lot of groups. Some salafists and various directions within Islam have used the opportunity to promote their vision. There's no problem taking a distance from Assad, but it's probably neither Kristiansen nor I initially share all the dimensions of all the parts of the opposition in today's Syria. I think you're getting more and more clear about it the more you look at it. That's why it's important to have a collection. We have said that this is important, we welcome it, it is a legitimate representative. We are not ready today to say that it is the only legitimate representative. That doesn't mean that the regime is legitimate, but that means that we don't have the full overview. I note that one country in Europe, France, has said that they know that this is the only legitimate representative. We're not there. I think it might be good that we stand on a Norwegian tradition because we recognise states and not governments, but that we also express our view that this is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e334	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e337	I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is important that we have got a collection – it may look like a collection – of the opposition in Syria, but we are still facing a very critical situation of human law. We are in a critical situation in terms of the fact that there is a conflict that can easily spread in a very difficult area, as we look at the attacks that are against Israel, what we have seen against Lebanon, what we have seen against Turkey. This can spread rapidly in an easily flammable political area. We also see that the abuses against the civilian population can be so great that we are beginning to approach the limit that I believe the world community can also have in terms of what we are going to tolerate before we are going to care about the people who are being subjected to these abuses. My question is, where does the Minister of Foreign Affairs limit when the international community has to get together to care? For this can ignite the outside world, this can ignite Syria, but it can also ignite us when extreme groups get ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e344	I share with the representative Skei Grande the description of reality. I believe that the limit for the longest time has passed. It has been a long time since this became too serious to be left to itself. That's why it's very important that the world community takes responsibility and does something about it. It was also the main point of my contribution to the UN General Assembly that we expect the members of the Security Council now to be able to get out of the deadlock they have been in, and take the responsibility of them. I believe that what we are doing now — both by supporting opposition groups, with extensive humanitarian efforts and by looking at how we can shield neighbouring countries from escalation — is all part of it. If someone had a universal key with which to fix the problem, I would have gone in for it right away, but no one has put one of these on the table. It's e.g. no western countries — none — that have called for an intervention in Syria, precisely because they have gone through the possible ups and downs at it. So much for the moment. there is no such proposal to deal with. What Russia and China have voted against is completely different from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e351	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e354	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. We see that the debate is still linked to the conversion of import protection for the agricultural sector. Let me just make it quite clear at the outset: I do not consider that conversion to be contrary to the WTO agreement, so I do not ask questions about the legality of going from a dollar to a percentage. So let's put that debate behind us. My question to the Council of State is whether it makes sense to make the proposal that the government has put on the table for the next year's budget, when you go from the dollar in these fields: beef beef papers and fillets, where you want a percentage of 344 p.m., lamb's lettuce, where you want a percentage of 429 p.m., and for solid and semi-solid cheeses 277 p.m. The reactions have not been omitted. The Danes have stated that Norway in this field is arrogant and unsolvable. We have seen strong reactions from some within the EU system in this field. We have seen that the food industry is concerned about production, because, among other things, in the case of lambs, the whole and half of the slaughter shall be taken into account. We have seen a fishing industry that is very concerned about future fish exports. As of today, Norway exports 35 million meal foods in the form of fish every day. We also need to negotiate side agreements that are not covered by the allowances, including: with the EU, which can then be affected by counter-reactions from that side. In addition, the government itself has stated in the State budget that this case has zero proceeds. Then my question to the State Council is Battle Violence Vedum: Is it worth it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e363	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e368	I thought that was interesting. I'm just going to be allowed to give the council the opportunity to also justify their yes, because everyone else out there is worried. State Council party trap Per Olaf Lundtigen stated in the News Channel this morning that the undersigned was only engaged by the consumer, the consumer and the consumer, as he said. Yes, we are also concerned about consumers, because those are the ones who have to pay the bill in the last round. Then I wonder whether the Council of State is also a little concerned about consumers related to the price level and the sample, and not least about the fish exporters. At least I hope that this time the Council of State can take some time to justify its position, so that those who sit and see the Council of State on TV and other channels can be reassured that this does not have the consequences that the industry fears, and that also very many other fears.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e375	For me, it's natural to answer questions. The question was whether I was willing to impose a percentage duty, and then I answered yes. But why are we doing this? Yes, because it's approx. 50 000 mills in Norwegian agriculture around the whole of Norway. That's about. 40,000 working in the Norwegian food industry. It surprises me that not the representative Nesvik is a little bit more concerned with the food industry in his own country and the agriculture in his own country. If we hadn't had a customs protection for example. solid oysters, and it had been phased out of Norwegian agricultural production, could all milk production in the West and North Norway, because then we had not needed production in the West and North Norway. The reason why we're doing that customs change is that we want a living agriculture, we want a living food industry, and we want it all over the country. For the government, it is natural to look at what is in Norwegian interests – how can we stand up to Norwegian agriculture, how can we stand up to the Norwegian food worker, how can we stand up to the Norwegian food industry? I am surprised that not the Progress Party also sees what serves Norwegian interests, and not what serves Danish interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e384	Two follow-up questions have been asked so far, and this will be given cause – first the representative Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e387	For the Progress Party, agriculture is an important part of our policy, in line with, among other things. the rest of our business policy. But in addition, the Progress Party also looks at the consumer perspective. The Progress Party wants Norway’s population to be given the opportunity to choose between a wide range of different types of food at a reasonable and competitive price. Governments live in a state bordering on Sweden. I do not know how much and often the Council of State is doing, and I do not have anything to do with it either, but I believe that the Council of State records that we have a border trade of approx. 11.5 B.C.E. kr, corresponding to a loss of approx. 10 000 Norwegian jobs. This border trade is not only due to lower prices in general, but also to a broader and more exciting range of goods in Sweden. My question to the Council of State will then be: Does not the Red-Green Government, with the Minister of Agriculture and Food at the head of the Norwegian population, enjoy the possibility to choose from a wide range of both Norwegian and foreign food products, but will it also consider customs duties and taxes to protect Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e396	That's exactly what we're doing. If we had not had customs protection, if we had not had budget support, it would not have been possible to have a wide range of Norwegian quality products. If we're going to be able to produce the unique tastes, we're going to have a volume-producing farm in the farm. That's where the different specialities come from. It surprises me that a representative from Hedmark is not more concerned about the 2,193 people who work in the food industry in our county. We wouldn't have had any food industries in Hedmark if we hadn't had an agriculture. The whole background that we have a food industry is that we have raw materials to run into the food industry. I was in another border state a few weeks ago, in Eastfold, in the inner Eastfold. Nortura was supposed to invest in a new slaughterhouse for 600 million. NOK, and when it was full capacity, it would have 800 employees. Having an agricultural sector is crucial for our own preparedness, but it is also very crucial for very many and for value creation, not least in counties such as Hedmark, Eastfold and other districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e408	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e411	To be a little disrespectful: I’m not always sure – at least when you look at the shopping basket – that it’s the broad range that interests all consumers. It's probably often the quantitative sample that does it, after what I've seen, but it's going to be another case. We agree with the Minister of Agriculture that we need to protect our own agriculture. It is of great importance to the districts, and there is a great connection here – as the Minister of Agriculture also points out – between agriculture and other industries: the food industry. Customs protection is therefore an important instrument. Equally full, I have to ask, starting from this: the list of oysters that came into the budget – how did it come into existence?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e418	The whole point of the customs change we have made here is to ensure that we have an agricultural industry all around Norway, that is to ensure that we reap the unique grass resources and the unique resources we have around our country, and that is to ensure the Norwegian food industry – so that we have living communities. We also have a different objective in agricultural policy and food policy. It is to ensure the widest possible diversity in Norwegian retail trade. Then we gave that assignment to our professional authorities: to look at so-called solid and semi-solid oysters, which had no significance for the Norwegian volume. We should ensure that we still had a good diversity, and the way customs change is done, allows the diversity of both Norwegian and foreign oysters in Norwegian cheese discs to increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e425	Svein Fleet – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e428	When you listen to the argument of the Minister of Agriculture, it's a purely protectionist argument. He does not mention with a single word that this concerns agreements we have with other countries, which have to do with our international reputation. The European Commissioner for Agriculture said exactly the same when the Battle of Vedum met him last week. He stated that he was extremely disappointed by the protectionist attitudes contained in the decision made here at home. Our Minister of Agriculture met this on the outside with a shoulder strap and thought it was nothing new. The government – at the Battle of Vedum and the Minister for Foreign Affairs – has taken the lead in saying that there are Norwegian press, and not least the Right, who have made the reactions in the EU. Did the Minister of Agriculture get a different impression when he met the European Commissioner for Agriculture, as far as their reactions were concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e435	I had a very good and useful day in Brussels, and one of the main issues during the day in Brussels was the law of good trade. There we have pursued an active European policy, and the European Commission wanted to get our input. It must be right that we have an active and up-to-date European policy. That's also why I traveled down there. It was not the European Commission that had asked me to come, I was the one that asked to come, to explain why we are making the customs changes we are doing, why we think it is right, and why we think it is in Norwegian interest. It is also a fact that the Norwegian people said no to the European Union in 1994, and thanks to the Norwegian people, the government has a space for action – an agreed space for action. That space of action chooses this government to use, and then we notice that a government that the Right would be part of would not choose the same space of action. The people in elections have to assess which government they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e444	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e447	Thank you, that's why I stay standing. I understand that the Minister of Agriculture – he can also stand still, for that matter – has used the opportunity in Brussels to talk about something other than this matter, and that he will not answer me on the question of what was the reaction in the EU. I am glad that he does not use the opportunity here to blame the Norwegian press and the Right for bringing up this matter. The Minister of Agriculture spoke earlier today about the food industry and how important customs increases are to it. But the fact is that the food industry depends on its costs, and an increased room for price increases makes their competitiveness weaker. The government does not have a Norwegian food industry in its back, because it will weaken its competitiveness by increasing the competitive position of processed products imported into Norway when Norwegian raw materials – used in similar products – are more expensive. That is a fact, and the Minister of Agriculture should take it upon himself. The Minister of Agriculture has an opportunity to also reduce customs duties, although I understand that it is not at the top of his dictionary. In fact, there are a number of agricultural products used by the Norwegian food industry which are not produced in Norway. This concerns dried egg white – I have to draw up the manuscript – modified starch and frozen dried meat. This is not produced in Norway, but there is a significant import duty on it. It actually reduces the competitiveness of the food industry by quite a few million dollars a year. Will Battle Violence Vedum do anything about that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e460	The government has submitted to the Stortinget the customs tariff we believe is right, so the Stortinget will have to discuss whether you support it or not. As far as I remember had no alternative proposal on the customs tariff last year, we'll see if you have alternative proposals on the customs tariff this year. You are free to have it, but we have put forward what we think is right. We also have a commodity compensation scheme, the so-called RAC scheme, in which we are to compensate for commodity disadvantages that the Norwegian food industry has compared to the foreign food industry. But the basic thing – which I can't understand is that nutritionist Svein Fletten doesn't see – is that if you don't have Norwegian raw materials, you don't want a Norwegian food industry. I see that the representative Ingerd Schou is in the hall, and when I was in her constituency and I met the factory manager in Härland, he said that it is of course that we had not had chicken and turkey production in Norway, we had not had factory facilities in Härland. It is not that we had run raw materials from other countries to filter and make the product in Norway — a high-cost country. The whole reason we have such a heavy food industry, for example. in the representative of the home region of Schous, is that we have a living Norwegian agriculture. That is why LO, NNN, NHO Food and Agriculture and the Farming Team support this change. Traveling around and meeting the Right-Rapporteurs around Norway, they also support this change, because they see the link between raw materials production and the food industry and housing and value creation around the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e469	Now I have just tried to tell the Minister of Agriculture that the Norwegian food industry is not in fact united behind the Minister of Agriculture in this matter. Let me also point out that I really did not ask for the Minister of Agriculture's standard agricultural talks. I had a very specific case that I wanted to ask him about – namely that there are some commodities that are not produced in Norway, like the food industry – that I understand the Minister of Agriculture is very concerned about today – saying that one should be able to import, without the high customs duties on this. This has nothing to do with general Norwegian agricultural policy, except that here the Minister of Agriculture has a glaring opportunity to show that, when practical, he can also reduce customs duties. I repeat the question: Is he going to look at that problem, which I hear he is obviously not aware of?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e478	The point is that we in the government have presented our proposal for customs tariffs, as we did last year. Without prejudice to the fact that I remember incorrectly, I do not remember that the right made any other proposals for the customs tariff last year, so we will see if you do this year. Of course, as Minister of Agriculture, I have always been in close contact with all parts of the industry, listening to recordings and taking them. One of the most important recordings I got from the NHO, the LO, the Bondelag and the Small User Team in terms of this year's budget was that one of the biggest threats to the Norwegian food industry, Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian housing now was that customs protection was in the process of weakening. That is why we made this improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e486	Two follow-up questions are raised – first Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e489	On 15 December 2011, the Government signed a statement by the World Trade Organisation. The government then gave a clear promise that it would fight against all forms of protectionism. In addition, the government committed itself to avoiding increasing customs barriers. When the government has already done a customs increase on some groceries, we see how long this promise has been made. If the occasion were to arise, would the government recommend resigning the promise of protectionism?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e496	This government is for a rule-based trading system. This is absolutely vital for Norway. We have the WTO agreement, and we have the EEA agreement, and that's what we're dealing with. If you are going to enter into new negotiations, you have to look at what agreements you get. Now we use the space provided by the agreements we have concluded, precisely to strengthen our national, Norwegian interests and our interests in relation to having a Norwegian food industry. What surprises me is that no representative from the Right is concerned with safeguarding national interests within the rule-based trading system we have, that not a representative from More and Romesdal is concerned with the existence of Elneswagen Daieri, not that not all milk production in Moor and Romesdal should disappear. Because that's what's the discussion: do we want milk production in More and Romesdal, or do we not want milk production in More and Romesdal? Do we want Elneswagen Dairy, or do we not want Elneswagen Dairy? But good luck – go to the choice of putting down Elneswagen dairy, and go to the choice of shutting down Norwegian milk production in More and Romesdal!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e505	Harald T. Nesvik – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e508	Governments have relatively categorical claims in their answers here. Putting the dairies down in Elneswagen if the state doesn't decide what kinds of oysters to buy is an interesting issue. He himself said that there had to be a government organ to tell him which oysters you would be allowed to have at the store. I actually didn't think that was the way to run politics in this country, but now it's obviously happened to the Center Party, and then we can get a lot of strange results ahead. My question to the Council of State is whether he is willing to look at one of the main challenges of the Norwegian food and beverage industry, and that is the big trade leakage we have to other countries. It is still moving to Sweden to act, and as a result of the Norwegian price level increasing and increasing for every year that goes, the Swedes are rubbing their hands and opening up new large shopping centres at the border. Now it's over 11 billion. kr in commercial leakage to Sweden and beyond 10 000 jobs deemed lost. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State at least bring a border trade package to counteract any of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e517	To inform the representative of Møre and Romsdal: At Elnesvågen it is Jarlsberg which is the main product, therefore it is relatively relevant to mention Jarlsberg and Elnesvågen in the same breath. The point is: As long as Norway goes well, there will be border trade between Norway and Sweden. As long as Sweden has a higher wage level than Denmark, there will be border trade between Sweden and Denmark. Then there will be border trade between Denmark and Germany, between Germany and Poland, and from Poland Polish workers will come back to Norway to get good working conditions here. This is completely natural. When some countries go better than other countries, there will be border trade. The main challenge in border trade is that in Norway we have had a very high real wage growth in recent years — fortunately — compared with other European countries. As long as there is different real wage growth and different costs for those who run shops, there will be a certain border trade. However, we have also taken targeted measures to strengthen the Norwegian food industry, among others. by removing the food production fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e526	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e538	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 2. Question 8, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e553	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Many in Norway are concerned with the development of the reprocessing plant at Sellafield and the hazard potential of this plant in terms of radioactive emissions to Norwegian sea and land. At present, negotiations are ongoing on the possible transfer of high-radioactive waste from Dounreay in Scotland to Sellafield. What will the Norwegian authorities do to prevent the escalation of the activity of Sellafield, and what will the possible transfer of radioactive waste from Scotland mean for the risk of spreading to Norwegian regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e562	There are large quantities of liquid high-radioactive waste stored in Sellafield, and as we know, the consequences can be serious both for the United Kingdom and neighbouring countries, including Norway, if a greater proportion of the waste is dropped into the air as a result of an accident or terrorist act. The concerns about the emission potential and the risk picture at Sellafield are something the government has been raising with British colleagues, both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Environmental Protection, through their activity over the years. My political adviser visited, for example. The Sellafield plant in June of this year. There is also contact at the office level and with the British Embassy on the issue. Finally, there is a close dialogue between the State Radiation Protection Agency and British safety and environmental authorities. Of course, we are not positive about any activity that can increase the risk of the Sellafield plant, nor about activities that can help reduce and ultimately clear the storage of highly active liquid waste. When it comes to what is going to happen to the radioactive material stored in Dounreay, it is part of a larger case complex that is now being discussed and treated in the United Kingdom. We are actively working to promote Norwegian interests and views on this, but also to get good enough up-to-date knowledge and background for the different options – the opportunities that lie there. I have therefore asked the State Radiation Protection Agency to investigate further, so that we can better assess any consequences for Norway and continue to work to promote a Norwegian view. Contact at political level is also relevant in order to achieve the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e578	I thank you for your answer. I hope that the Council of State and the Government will have a continuous, firm focus on this issue. We know that the United Kingdom is spending a lot on the development of renewable energy, but we also know that the United Kingdom wants to build nine new nuclear power plants in the country. This means that the hazard potential for an increase in the activity of Sellafield is present, also in relation to the situation of the removal of waste from Dounreay. My question to the Council of State is whether he himself has considered going over to Sellafield and meeting with the British authorities, so as to underline the importance of this activity for neighbouring countries, among others. Norway, and also in order to ensure that plans for the disposal of storage tanks have been made in the past, that the work is done as planned and that there is a direction that Norway wants to pursue in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e587	Let me first say that I agree with the description and analysis of the situation that the representative Meling is using here. Let me also say that this is a matter in which we now have considerable expertise and experience over many years in the political and administrative work of changing governments with her, and which is probably also remarkable because of how important she is to us, and the close contact it has been on matters of the past. It's also the risk picture that's led us to ask for Staten's radiation protection to follow up the case, and that we also have a different kind of contact. I can also confirm that I myself will regularly consider both contacting my British colleague and otherwise follow up the case. So we regularly assess all political and administrative contacts, with the aim of promoting Norwegian interests in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e594	I thank you for your answer. In my opinion, considering contact with the British authorities and considering going to Sellafield is perhaps a bit too weak an approach, especially when we know that we are going to move waste from Dounreay to Sellafield. It may then be appropriate for the Norwegian Environment Minister himself to take the initiative of a meeting, possibly a visit, to discuss this situation and thus underline the importance of this for Norway, for the coastal population and for Norwegian maritime food activities, etc., which is entirely dependent on having clean sea areas for its harvest base.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e601	I don't want to deny that this is the case. At present, we are primarily concerned with getting the full picture of what is in the United Kingdom a rather complicated case complex involving moving from Dounreay and discussing different locations. We regularly follow along and promote Norwegian interests. It also means to consider whether I should contact them in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e610	Then I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘Two Norwegian citizens are imprisoned in Congo, sentenced to death for espionage for Norway. It seems that the Norwegian authorities have done little to get the two out of Congo. The passivity is perceived, both nationally and internationally, as a strange elude in a legal case and a judgment that makes the Norwegian State a sponsor for espionage. The two are undergoing a prison stay under unworthy conditions and with a risk to life and health. How will the government now engage in active dialogue with Congolese authorities to get them out of Congo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e619	For more than three years, the Norwegian authorities have been actively working on a solution with Congolese authorities, which means that Thiostolv Moland and Joshua French can return to Norway. The two Northmen have applied to the President for a pardon. In 2010, the Norwegian authorities submitted a draft settlement transfer agreement. Due to a lack of progress, we have re-examined the issue of settlement transfer from Norway. The Congolese authorities are aware that a Norwegian delegation is ready to come to Kinshasa to negotiate an agreement — when to do so. The Congolese President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice know that we on the Norwegian side want the two prisoners to leave the Congo. We have had ongoing dialogue with the Congolese authorities since Moland and French were apprehended in May 2009. It has been necessary to address several issues in political meetings between the Congo and Norway, such as the physical security of prisoners and their legal certainty. We have also underlined the importance of the treatment of the two Nordics in accordance with international human rights standards. The Congolese authorities have ensured that the death penalty will not be enforced. Most recently in my conversation with Minister of Foreign Affairs Tshibanda at the end of September, it was stressed by Congo that a moratorium on the death penalty was adopted. We have made it clear to the Congolese authorities early that Moland and French have not been on behalf of the Norwegian state. There is no international legal basis to claim that Norway is a party to the case. A State may not bring another State before the national court, under the rules of international law on State immunity. The Norwegian authorities have made it clear to the Congolese authorities that we do not therefore accept those parts of the judgment that involve responsibility for the Norwegian State. The Congolese authorities have also not followed up the spying point in the judgment before the Norwegian authorities. The Norwegian authorities have expressed their opinion only on the part of the judgment which implies responsibility for Norway. The EEAS will never rule on convictions or guilt issues when Norwegian citizens are accused or have been convicted in foreign law. It is an important principle in our consular work that Norwegian authorities provide help regardless of the guilt question. We are concerned about the humanitarian situation of Moland and French. I recently expressed this in the conversation with Minister of Foreign Affairs Tshibanda in September. We will therefore continue to work for a solution with the Congolese authorities, which means that the Norwegians can return to Norway. Foreign service representatives will continue to visit Moland and French regularly in prison, providing practical and consular assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e636	Thanks for the answer. I record that the Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to dialogue, correspondence, which in some respects has not been correspondence, but letter one way. It is – I must say – a somewhat amazing trust in a system that through this trial has shown that you cannot trust it. No professional environments, whether national or international, have been registered and have confidence in the judgment. Recently, an opposition politician, Vital Kamerhe, has said that this is what he wants to do because it was not a fair verdict with the right to defend. Then it becomes a little strange that you don't get any more grip on the whole sentence, but only protests at that part of the sentence that hits the Norwegian state as a party. The same espionage sentence is at the root of the death sentence against the two prisoners. What will the Foreign Minister do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e647	It is true that there are a number of Nordics imprisoned in other countries, and there are a number of foreigners imprisoned in Norway. It is such in international cooperation that the jurisdiction of the country in which you live applies to everyone present in that country. We have a fundamental view that we do not take a stand for judges in other countries, and above all that we do not base our consular assistance. We support Norwegian citizens regardless of the basis of the judgment, because they are in a situation where they deserve our attention and support. The humanitarian situation is very demanding here, and we have made it clear that we are concerned about it. We have also made references that have led to changes in their status and condition. We are open to opportunities for both compensation transfer and pardon. We have a dialogue with Congolese authorities. I'm still going to have that, but it has to be done on the basis of the legal principles that apply between countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e654	There is no doubt that the two of them have had better reconciliations, but still there is a danger to life and health. They've got death sentences all over them. Then we record that it is said that it will not be implemented, but it is clear that it is a solid feeling to sit with this over it. Then the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been told – over and over again – that you would like to go down and negotiate to find a solution. There was no response to that type of dialogue. What I am now asking for is that the Norwegian authorities – the management of the Norwegian government and the U.D. – take active action on the other side. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs make sure that someone goes down, faces management in Congo and says that now we want a solution, we can no longer wait for answers from you, this is about life and health for two of our citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e663	I think I had been a foreign minister for four days when I first met my Congolese colleague to say just that, that we are very concerned about the situation the two prisoners are in, and that we want to get a solution, where they can be transferred to Norway – through either pardon or pardon transfer. I feel very sure that if I were to start in that conversation and say that we do not trust the Congolese judiciary, it would not encourage their situation in any way. It's also a principle point of view, where I think it's a good idea that we're consistent across countries and situations. So it's not like we're just helping the Norwegians we're supposed to be innocently convicted, and we're not helping the Norwegians who we think are guilty of. That's why it's right, in principle, not to settle the guilt question – we're helping anyway. It's not a statement of the opposite. There is simply no statement about what we think about guilt, but I am concerned about their situation. It's important to say that I both hope and believe that we will find a solution. But it is not the case that the Congo has a duty to send people convicted in the Congo out of the country – just as Norway has a similar duty on the other side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e672	The size now goes to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e679	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following question: ‘There is a relatively high level of talk about the degradation/disposal of food land, but very little about new cultivation. Why is the government not more concerned with helping those who want to grow more land by, inter alia, simplifying the legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e686	Figures from the municipalities show that a lot of new cultivation is allowed and that the area allowed for new cultivation is larger than that which is re-disposed to other than agriculture. In 2011, it was authorised to re-grow approx. 15,900 deacons. In the same year, 10,900 covers of arable land and cultivated land were redispatched. Despite this, I believe it is very important to reduce redisposal. New-grown area may not replace redisposed area. The newly cultivated areas have even worse productive capacity than the areas that are being built up. Land redisposals are often located in areas close to agglomerations, and agricultural production has been on them for generations. I think it is good that the amount of innovation is as large as it is today. It helps to keep up food production. In addition, recultivation strengthens the long-term resource base for properties receiving additional land. At the same time, it is a fact that, in some cases, cultivation resources can lie in areas with important environmental resources. It is important to have tools that can channel re-growth into areas where there are natural conditions for soil cultivation and where new cultivation can take place with small or moderate environmental impacts, for example. where good arable mineral soil is found. I believe that the rules we have in the law of the land today are an appropriate tool to achieve this. The figures for 2011 and previous years do not indicate that the legislation prevents new cultivation. Many farms are allowed to re-growth. At the same time, municipalities lay down conditions for new cultivation so that they can take care of important environmental values. In 2011 conditions were imposed for nature and the environment in 56 pst. of the cases in which authorisation was granted. This gives a win-win solution, with more food-producing area and more resource-intensive use, and at the same time we keep important environmental values. I'm in favour of such solutions. It stands in contrast to a solution where everything is to be released freely. If it is not necessary to apply for a permit, then generations ahead of us may lose value and our agricultural areas may become poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e695	That was in so far as a proper response from the Council of State. I have recorded that there has never been as little cultivated area as what we have today, and that it has still gone down. This is a lot of screaming about, and it might be natural. At the same time, I hear nothing from the government parties about wanting new cultivation. There is no request for farmers to grow more land, i.e. in food production. In my neighbouring municipality of Våler, just to take an example, you want to grow a pretty big piece – there are several thousand goals – but it takes too long. The farmers who want to buy or rent – or what the result is on this area – believe that this takes too much time, and that is among other things. a regulatory framework that does. Before that, there was a new crop grant to be received. I have not heard that this government has looked forward to something like that either, so there is a total lack of optimism in terms of innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e706	I don't agree with that description of reality when it's almost 16,000 deacons that are newly cultivated every year. And especially in Hedmark, there's a lot of new cultivation. If you go to the North-East Valley, it's been a huge innovation in recent years. There are indications that there is an optimism and a force in the industry, when they choose to renovate in the way they have done not least in parts of our state. The project we are now seeing in Våler, at Haslemoen – the fact that 6 000 dekars are to be cultivated – is an enormously large cultivation project. It's also going to be a very efficient agricultural area. It is the municipality itself that is the driving force behind it, and there are slightly different interests locally, so you have to discuss locally how to organise it in a good way. So there's a lot of good happening in innovation -- there's a lot of drag -- and it happens without us having any subsidies on it. And nothing is better than that it is the individual farmer who has the incentive to initiate innovation projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e713	The last thing I agree with – it is the individual farmer who will find out whether it pays or not. However, there is no public request for cultivation, nor is it the case that a regulatory framework is often difficult. For example: to achieve more than 50 objectives, this must be assessed in a consistent manner and an impact assessment must be paid by the individual himself. It is clear that there are not many farmers in today's situation who have the opportunity, or interest, to pay for such an impact assessment. And often the impact assessment is negatively accepted – the result is negative. We have to do something here. It is often the environment that refuses — which means that you are not allowed to grow. I believe that it still has to be up to every farmer – within certain regulations, of course, but that legislation should be as flexible as possible, so that we get the new cultivation up. In the 1970s, something huge was cultivated. On my farm, and on many, many other farms, it was cultivated, and we got big, okay farms. But in recent times, as the Council of State says, 15,900 jobs in the whole of Norway are being re-cultivated — that’s not much.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e720	When we discuss the Earth Resource, protecting the Earth Resource we have is one of the most important things we discuss. The best cultivated field is often around Oslo, around Hamar, around Stavanger, around Trondheim. That's why it's been settled there, so you've been growing the best soil – cultural soil – that's been there for generations. And that's why I expect that when the representative of Bredvold has become so busy with the Earth resource, he also becomes much more concerned with soil protection. When I meet the representative of Bredvold in debates on soil protection, he often shakes his head a little – here a shopping mall should be built, here there should be a new residential area, here the road should be laid in the middle of the earth, costing what it will cost. And that's the point. Point 1: We have to take care of what we have of cultivated soil. There has almost been a halve of disposal — during the government period that the Central Party has managed the Ministry of Agriculture, there has been a very positive development. Point 2: We have to applaud everyone who revels. It's a very high rate of innovation, almost 16,000 dekar. It is, seen with my eyes, a quite substantial innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e727	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e734	‘In recent years, the government has boasted of the involvement of police and increased appropriations to recruit more police officers. The reality is a different one. In the Telemark Police District, the number of police-trained teams has been reduced by 18.6 posts from 2008 to 2011. This shows that the Minister of Justice's promises of more policemen are not correct. The Council of State has repeatedly claimed that Telemark has received more money for more policemen, but this is not true, is it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e741	It is true that the Telemark police district has suffered a decline in the number of police officers employed, in fact at 18.7 posts from 2008 to 2011. The Ministry of Justice and Defence does not allocate posts to the police districts. We allocate the appropriations to the Police Directorate, which in turn distributes to the individual police districts and special agencies. In recent years, a resource allocation model has been used that goes under the name Fürst and Höverstad model. In the Telemark police district, appropriations from 2008 to 2012 increased by 50.3 million. kr. That's an increase of 21 pst. In 2009, funds were allocated to 460 new civil posts in the Police and Lone Civil Service Senate, and the Telemark Police District was then given 14 of these posts. Police districts themselves give priority, not least in the context of increased allocations, to posts, equipment or operations. The government has given priority to increasing student admissions to the Police College and increasing funding, so that students can be offered a job. I am concerned that we should have more police officers and women in the police districts. In the governance dialogue meeting with the Police Directorate in the autumn, I commissioned the Police Directorate to follow up the districts and make sure that they reached the goal of increasing police staff. Manning developments are a cause for concern. Both the government and the Grand Duchy have been aware that the police coverage will increase. This is reflected in the annual budgets. I will follow the manning situation closely. The requirement to increase police staff shall also be included in the management pay contracts of the police/organisational officers in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e758	The notice is from Varden on 3 November. The Council of State says that 14 new civil positions were added – the results there are nothing better than what they were before 2009. You don't have money in the police districts to have more policemen. So it has now gone from having 1.66 police per 1000 in 2008 to having 1.55 in 2011. It's a contradiction with all the signals that the bulk of the population has given, where you're going to have to pick up two policemen per 1,000 people. It must be worrying for the Minister of Justice to stand here all the time and say that there will be more money for more policemen, when the result is the very opposite. How is the Minister of Justice supposed to get two policemen per 1 000 inhabitants? The people of Telemark are wondering, and the people of the whole country are wondering. When does the Minister of Justice intend to follow up his own promises and promises made by the majority of the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e765	I'm giving a description of a fact that shows that, despite the substantial increase in budgets, we've had a decrease in the number of officials. I have also described how many of the civil positions came to Telemark. I describe what I think is a management challenge both in the district and in the department, where we will follow this up in the dialogue with the directorate, and where we expect the directorate to follow it up with the individual police officers in the districts and special agencies. It's a political wish, it's an ambition, a strengthened crew, and we've also facilitated it through an increased admission to the Police College. We also need to strengthen the police by ensuring that the resources are used correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e772	I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice agrees that the goal is to get there. But can the Council of State now stop flying around and tell us that so many more policemen have arrived in Norway? For the inhabitants, it does not experience that way. Those who work in the police don't feel that way. The facts show that this is not the case. When the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice instruct the police districts to do things on the ICT side, on the equipment side, and in all other areas, there is also a need to follow up on money so that people can be hired to be policemen – people to be out there and make sure that they are safe in the streets. Security for the population is one of the most important tasks for the police. I feel that the Council of State is now pushing everything away. But then you have to stop standing in this room – or somewhere else for that matter – and boast of what you're doing, because this government is making so much effort to get more policemen, when the result is that there are fewer policemen. This is contrary to the promises made by both this Minister of Justice and the former Minister of Justice on this pulpit many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e779	I am not at all familiar with the description given by the representative Hoksrud of my message and the actual information that I have also provided. The management challenge that therefore lies in ensuring the proper use of existing resources, while also knowing that we are investing new resources properly, shares both I, the Directorate and the individual police officers. There is also some background to the fact that, in the light of the Gjørv Commission's report, we are undertaking the work of a police analysis – which I published last week – to ensure that we get the right functions properly dimensioned, a good organisation, a proper commitment to skills development and staffing, and not least ensure a good use of ICT. This is a management challenge that we will take very seriously in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e788	‘A family that lived 20 metres from rv. 3 was not allowed to build their house again after it was completely damaged in the fire because today's building limit is 50 meters from the highway. The state road authority writes in a letter to the family that they do not have a legal basis that allows them to compensate the family for the restriction on availability, as the Road Service could have done in the case of expropriation. Will the Council of State take the initiative in a legislative amendment that allows for substitution for this type of restriction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e795	Section 35 of the Road Act provides that a person must have permission from the road authorities under Section 30 of the Road Act if he is to rebuild a house that has been demolished or destroyed in the event of a fire within the building boundaries under Section 29 of the Road Act. If the house is not allowed to be built in the same place, it is in some cases appropriate to place the house elsewhere on the site, while in other cases it is not possible to reconstruct the house on the site. The Road Act does not provide for the liability of public authorities – state, county or municipality – to landowners in cases where no exemption is granted for the reentry of houses. However, the preparatory work of the Road Code provides that any obligation to compensate must be based on general legal principles, i.e.: based on an analogue application of the Basic Law § 105. According to current case law, which applies to road law and to the provisions of the Planning and Building Act on building limits, no compensation may normally be required for private land supply restrictions due to the building boundaries under the Road Law and the Law on Planning and Building. In order for the State to be liable, there must be special circumstances. The basis of liability has to be assessed in detail in each case. According to the case-law of the European Court of Justice, liability exists only when a property is destroyed as land for construction and cannot be used in any other way in an accounting manner. When measuring the amount of compensation, it is assumed that the turnover value of the land to be replaced is not the replacement value. As for the question of whether I would like to take the initiative in a change in the law that opens up to compensate for this type of restriction on availability, I would like to point out that even if compensation under the Road Code is not statutory, it does not mean that the person who is affected is legally innocent. The right to compensation is, of course, discretionary and has been developed through case-to-case case-law. One advantage of the kind of case-law development is that it is in this way possible to identify what is the best practical solution to the various cases over time. When legislating, it is likely that the assessment may be more closely linked and more schematic than if the assessment is made in the light of the general rules on compensation designed in accordance with long-term case-law. If the legal provision is not properly drafted, important assumptions for previously unlawful rights may also be lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e808	In such cases as this, there is talk of reconstruction and continued use of land as it has been used for many, many years. That's why it's incredible, I think, that the state behaves like the big ugly wolf and destroys the individuals out there. The house, or the houses, is set up legally, but has subsequently been made illegal, as they cannot be rebuilt on the same ground wall. Many houses will fall under this law. After a count in an area of approx. two to three miles, it is about 100 houses coming into the danger zone if the accident is over. If the road had not been built, but had to be built, the properties would have been expropriated, and compensation would have been paid. Does not the Council of State consider that there is discrimination when it is the road that in one case triggers compensation, while in the other case the same path does not?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e817	These rules are, in the case of restrictions, related to the reconstruction or replacement laid down in Section 35 of the Road Code and also in Sections 30 and 29. After all, as I tried to say in my first answer, there is no law relating to compensation, but it is not that one here is becoming lawless – this will be in line with the more general principles of law relating to the right to compensation. This means that there may be a basis for liability in actions for damages. There will also be the possibility to pay an amount based on a concrete and discretionary assessment, but there will be no legal right to any compensation relating to these cases. When it comes to lawmaking, it has its drawbacks – which I tried to get into – that one can get a more schematic handling of the cases, but it can also, of course, have its advantages. One has seen a trend in the last 20 to 30 years in the field of civil protection, where there has been an increasing degree of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e826	Now it has been said that they feel quite innocent when such a case as this takes many years before you even come to a solution. You haven't actually come up with a solution. This is not a single case. The Party considers that there is no discrimination – that someone is getting compensation and others are not. When the accident occurs, the State should not add to the burden. I mean they do with the law that is today. The Progress Party will ensure that all persons who are entitled to ownership are automatically offered the right to exercise ownership at market prices in connection with transport projects or roads that are already built, i.e. to have a change in this law. Does the Council of State really feel that this is unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e833	The Government and the State Road Administration must deal with the current legal status of the obligation to compensate for the refusal of a derogation for the rebuilding of houses within the building boundaries. Both the legislator and the Supreme Court, through the development of case law, have assessed the extent to which the public is liable for supply constraints, and I do not find any basis for assessing the reasonableness of the legal situation built up by case-law in this area. It is also difficult for me to give a specific opinion on the matter referred to by the representative. What I can say is that I am concerned that the department's underlying agencies are going to deal with issues relating to individuals, correctly, at the earliest possible and also as quickly as possible, so that you can follow the rules of the administrative law, and so that individuals do not wait in vain.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e842	‘In week 45, the air traffic on the Gardermoen was again delayed due to it. the air traffic controller situation. This time it was air traffic controller's absence because of it. sick child who provided for the absence of agreed traffic control and significant delays for thousands of passengers. This is not the first time the lack of air traffic controllers is causing great delays. It is unacceptable by a state monopoly company like Avinor, and it imposes heavy costs on airlines and travellers. As a general meeting in Avinor, what time has the Council of State allowed the company to clean up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e849	Let me first underline that, at a general level, Avinor works very well as a company, but there are challenges associated with two air navigation service units in the company. It has contributed to the situations we have seen this summer, but also the situation that arose a few days a week 45, and that was an unfortunate situation. Avinor is organised as a limited liability company, and it is the board of directors and the day-to-day management who are responsible for the preparation and follow-up of measures necessary to remedy this situation and ensure regularity and good service. As part of that responsibility, Avinor must also train enough air traffic controllers. I think it's the bottleneck, which we've also had in the past in these contexts, and Avinor has informed the department that there will be a balance between the need for and access to air traffic controllers in 2013. The situation in the air navigation service is closely monitored in the ongoing owner dialogue between the Ministry of Transport and Avinor. The Ministry has confidence in the way the Board manages this situation, and the Ministry considers an order in the General Assembly to be an out-of-date and fruitful instrument in this situation. In the long term, it may be appropriate to look at the organisation of air navigation services in Norway. There is a question that the government will come back to Stortinget in connection with the presentation of the Avinor ownership message, which will be presented during the spring. The Ministry of Transport is also following up the air navigation service in our role as authority. It applies both through the decision appointing Avinor as the provider of air navigation services in Norway and through the performance management system established for these services. Air traffic controllers have now submitted to the hearing a proposal to lift the 60-year age limit for air traffic controllers. They have also sent a proposal to cancel the Norwegian knowledge requirement in order to be able to work at the control centres. It is a hope that it will contribute to greater flexibility in air traffic controller service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e864	Thanks for the answer. I remember that it's the air passengers that finance Avinor, and that Avinor has monopoly. It is an alarmingly poor supply from Avinor within the air navigation service, and it has been a challenge since 2005. The red-green government has not solved the problem, but promised to solve it. The State owns Avinor, and the Council of State is General Assembly. Within the framework of state ownership, it must be emphasised that Avinor is also a company with sectoral policy objectives. In order to achieve the sectoral policy objective, active ownership must and can be exercised within the government's own ownership policy. My question is: Is a robust and stable air navigation service a sectoral policy objective, and how will the Council of State use ownership through extraordinary general meetings and concrete time targets towards Avinor to achieve sectoral policy objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e873	A robust and reliable air navigation service is very important and it is an important goal for the government. However, I do not share the representative’s view that there is a persistent problem for Avinor whether they are able to discharge the air navigation services. There were unfortunate situations in the summer, to which there were many reasons. There was also an unfortunate period of two days a week 45, when there was a shortage of air traffic controllers, which led to certain delays. We are concerned that we should have a robust and reliable service, and it is taken, as I mentioned in my reply, regularly into the ongoing dialogue between the Ministry and Avinor. Avinor’s assurances are that the balance between the availability and need of air traffic controllers shall be in place in 2013. In addition, I believe that the issue of the organisation of the future air navigation service needs to be looked at a little wider. As I said, we'll get back to it in Stortinget in connection with the owner's message about Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e882	Thank you again for your answer. I have to remind you again that there have been more challenges and problems with air navigation services between 2005 and the summer of 2012. It has discussed Stortinget several times and received assurances from previous government councils that the problem was being handled and should be removed. The company presented a Section 10 plan for the period 2012-2014 at the end of October of this year, which mentions future air navigation services and also shows forecasts for the coverage of crew needs. There is no coverage in 2012, and that is so far coverage the following year. Has the Council assured itself that Avinor now has a credible plan to ensure robust manning and full operational stability in Norwegian airspace?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e891	Of course, I am aware that there has been a longer debate on the issue of a sufficient number of air traffic controllers. I must also say that I think Avinor has had a strong searchlight on it in recent years. They've trained a lot of new air traffic controllers, but of course it also takes a little time, and that's one of the reasons why we won't be balanced until 2013 in terms of the need for and access to air traffic controllers. They shall be trained both theoretically and at the workplace while effectively performing air traffic controller services. That's what I want to mention as a moment here. Of course, I am well aware of the Section 10 plan presented by Avinor. It is precisely the basis for what the government will present to the Stortinget, and a broader discussion of a number of issues relating to Avinor, including how to provide the best possible air navigation service in the future. Prior to having an extraordinary general meeting, I do not consider it relevant, but of course I look very much forward to the debate that both government and magnificence will have about the further organisation of Avinor, including the question of adequate air traffic controller service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e898	Then we move on to the next question, which should have been asked by the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. Now it is the case that State Council Inga Marte Thorkildsen has not come to the Chamber nor to the Stortinget, so we have to wait a little and go to question 8, which is from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, but which has been transferred to the Minister of Transport as the right person.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e905	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following question: ‘In order to improve the economy of the forest industry, industry wants, among other things. a better road standard so that more timber can be transported per. wagon train. What will the Council of State do to help reduce the cost of forestry and thus increase the competitiveness of our neighbouring countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e912	The government is very concerned about providing a good framework for Norwegian timber industry and stimulating environmentally friendly transport within the timber industry. I am aware that there are still bottlenecks in the road network that the industry considers to be a disadvantage for the cost-effective transport of timber. Bottlenecks are located both on the national road network and on the county road network. Many bottlenecks have already been removed through the development of the road network and targeted efforts to strengthen bridges and develop new ones, but continued efforts are needed, and continued efforts will be assessed in the context of the National Roadmap Map Communication for 2014-2023 and in the ongoing State Roadmap action programme for the years to come. I am also aware that the State Road Service is in a dialogue with the forest industry in this connection, and the government will therefore come back to the Stortinget with these questions in connection with the submission of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e919	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret as a positive response both for industry and for others who use roads, because there is no doubt that there are bottlenecks that make it impossible to use the capacity of the transport industry. One thing is that the roads are good enough on both sides of the bridge, but the bridge does not allow you to take advantage of the road standard. It is also true that the Council of State says that some bottlenecks have been repaired so that there are no bottlenecks anymore, but there are still many left to say so. Another thing is that you want bigger cars within the industry, i.e. that you can take larger tons, and that the cars can also be longer. If the Council of State could say anything about it too, it would be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e926	Let me first say that we are well acquainted with the priorities of the Forest Society, for example. in the case of bottlenecks, and have had – and have – a dialogue with them. In this context, there may be in particular one or two bridges in Hedmark and Uppland that carry a large proportion of timber volume per year, where it would mean a lot if you got the bottlenecks repaired. We're going to evaluate that in connection with NTP. With regard to the length and weight of a wooden wagon train, the Directorate of Road has now sent a proposal to increase the length of a wooden wagon train from 22 to 24 metres and it is also proposed to increase the permitted total mass of a trailer in a wooden wagon train from 30 to 32 tonnes. It can provide greater flexibility in the way a vehicle combination is loaded, thereby improving the ability to take advantage of the total weight. We'll go on with it when we get the results from the hearing at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e933	Once again, I thank the Council of State for a constructive response. In Sweden, there are several major trucks that carry – in this case – timber. They may have much more tonnage and they are much longer, and that makes the cubic cost of shipping in Sweden 22-23 pst. lower than that in Norway. Clearly, this makes our products, Norwegian forest products, more expensive than our competing countries, so this is an important theme for the industry. I hope and believe that the Council of State will take this question further into its work, for there is no doubt that the $3 million. the cubicle of timber used by the inland area in the year shall be transported somewhere. A lot of that we can carry on the railway, but to get to the railway you first have to take the car, then the railway and then maybe the car again to get the final product. So that's an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e940	I agree with the considerations that are being made about what can help to make the transport of timber both more efficient and more flexible. In addition to the hearing that I was attending, we also have a dialogue with the forestry industry to increase the total weight of timber trains to 60 tonnes. It is also a proposal we will consider further, but it is a little complicated given that the Norwegian road network is narrower, has a lot of curve and a little tough winter conditions. This means that we need to map and calculate what is the resilience of the road network in this connection, before we go on with such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e949	Then we go on to the last question – questions 7 and 8 have been answered earlier – that will be asked by Christian Tybring-Gjedde to the Council of State Inga Marte Thorkildsen. The President just wants to say that he thinks it is very unfortunate that the Council of State does not respond when there are questions in the Question Time, but is too late. This question should have been answered a while ago, and we have had to wait. The President will ask the Council of State to enter Stortinget in the future at such a time that questions can be answered when they are to be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e954	‘In a written reply to the representative Ørsal Johansen, the Minister of Inclusion states that the Salafist movement Islam Net will nevertheless not receive money from the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. This is because the movement does not accept the conditions for receiving such support. Does the Council of State know what the Salafist movement stands for, and was she informed about Islam Net's critical view of value and contempt for women before the decision to provide financial support was taken?»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e961	President, let me start by complaining about the strongest, but it's based on a misunderstanding, because we've been in close dialogue with the Storting all the way and were sure that we found ourselves in time. That's what they say. We're going to clean that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e966	Then, in the future, the Council of State will only have to make sure that she follows the meeting arrangements set out by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e969	Yes, and that's what she thought she had done, so we have to check our routines. I'm so sorry. In reply, I would say that in 2012, Islam Net was allocated NOK 100 000 from the grant scheme for the prevention of forced marriage and gender mutilation by non-governmental organisations. In general, I would like to say that non-governmental organisations are very important in the fight against pregnancy and sexual mutilation, because they reach different groups and different environments. It is the Integration and Diversity Directorate, the IMFI, that manages the grant scheme. The Directorate makes independent assessments of who is to be supported, but the criteria for the scheme must always be followed. When Islam Net received support, the IMFI demanded that specific conditions be met. The organisation was to ensure that the speakers were accompanied by Norwegian law in Norway. It should also make sure that the speakers are opponents of the physical and mental punishment of women and children. The directorate also demanded that Islam Net ensure that no one was refused to sit where they wanted because of their sex. IMDi was aware that Islam Net stands for a conservative interpretation of the Koran. The Directorate also knew that there are shared opinions in Muslim environments about this interpretation. IMDi thought Islam Net could reach groups otherwise it's hard to reach. The Counterfeiting Action Plan emphasises precisely this, that non-governmental organisations can build networks differently from the public. As we know, Islam Net would not meet the requirements set by the IMDI. The organisation will therefore not receive support. When public funds are released, all applicants are entitled to a procedure that follows administrative rules. A government agency shall, inter alia: ensure the principle of equal treatment. The fact that an organisation is controversial is not in itself a sound reason to reject an application for grants. The most important criterion will be whether the organisation has anything to contribute to the objective, in this case combating coercion. At the same time, I would like to say – as I answered the question from my colleague to Mr Tybring-Gjedde – that it is important that there is a requirement for grants. I am very concerned that the Community funds will be used within the framework of what constitutes the foundation of the Norwegian rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e982	I don't know if I'm going to laugh or cry about the answer to the council. Islam Net – the Council of State is talking about a conservative interpretation of the Koran. I have in front of me some excerpts from Islam Net's websites, which I guess the Council of State is getting in before she grants hundreds of thousands of dollars to the organization. Here is a person who never talks to women, but who is going to marry a woman, to whom he of course cannot talk until he is married to her, and he asks what should he do. Then they will say: Praise be to Allah. Men are not allowed to talk to women. If you're going to talk to women, it must be his mother or his sister, and the woman must be fully covered and preferably behind a door, it says. The woman must not speak with a soft tone, use a full hijab and be decent, and you must not talk about anything except the matter. This is nothing new. This is what the Council of State knew. This is what the Council of State has been doing for a long time. Why is it estimated to give money to an organisation that promotes such statements? How does it have to do with combating coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e991	I'd recommend the representative Tybring-I didn't want to laugh or cry, but actually stick to the answer that the Council of State gives. The answer I'm giving is that it's not me or the department that has allocated funds to Islam Net. It's an assessment the IMDI has made. They had a discussion in between, where they first rejected the application and then allocated funds – but with strict demands – to the organisation Islam Net. It was about women and men sitting in the same room and dealing with the foundation of the rule of law and the values we emphasize, among other things. equality. The representative Tybring-Gjedde should be well aware that there is a value I seams setting very high, in fact higher than the representative Tybring-Gedde, I would say. When they could not satisfy that claim, the money was returned. I see that. I have had nothing to do with the allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e998	Then I'm going to ask the State Council to instruct the IMFI to stop trying to give money to organisations that do not represent equality at all, as the Council of State puts so incredibly high. It is a big controversial question, or paradox, that the Council of State states that she is very much for equality, but continues to grant money through the IMF to a number of organisations that are not at all working for equality. Last year, the Minoten youth club was granted a hotel stay; they received NOK 200,000 for a ski vacation to create integration. Minotenk spent his money, the $200,000, on two bus tours – one with boys, who took a week, came back next week, and next week girls went on a bus, on a ski vacation. So they were segregated. This was to create integration and understanding for the Norwegian society! So this is how the IMF and others use the taxpayers’ money – through the Council of State, which is responsible for this – for completely meaningless things, which do not create work against sexual mutilation, do not create work against coerciveness, and do not create equality. What does the Council of State think of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e1005	Here a number of claims were made that we allocate funds through ‘a number of organisations’ that are countering the objectives that I have said here that we want to promote. We have an ongoing dialogue with the IMFI. We also have clear guidelines on how to allocate funds, and these are clear that we have a dialogue with the IMF on, also in the light of debates taking place in society. I think it's good that this discussion about Islam Net came up. I am concerned that Islam Net could not accept the simple demands made by the IMFI – that women and men should be able to sit in the same room – in order to receive support, and that Islam Net thus returned the money. Let there be no doubt that this council and this government are very concerned that we should be clear about the values we place high in our society. Islam Net stands for many of the values that are in conflict with the values that I am in line with, and so it's okay that this case got the outcome it did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e1012	Question 7 was answered for question 2, and question 8 was answered for question 5. Then we got all the questions that were on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-14.ana.ud1765e1025	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
