ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e160	The representative, Mr Höglund, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e163	I am pleased to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Táldal, Jørund Rytman and myself on changes in the Norwegian practice of the GSP trading system with developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e168	The representative Ib Thomsen wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e171	On behalf of the big business representatives Solvency Horne, Øyvind Korsberg, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to make a proposal for state aid to establish a new Munch museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e176	The representative of Borghild Tenden wishes to make two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e179	I am pleased to be promoting two representative proposals – one from the representative Trine Skei Grande and myself on several opportunities for admission to higher education, and the other from representatives Karin S. Woldseth, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, Hans Olav Syversen and myself on the ratification of the additional protocols to the Children's Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e184	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, wishes to make two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e187	I would like to make proposals on behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself on the adjustment of the charging system for imports of used cars between 15 and 30 years old, and proposals on behalf of the representatives of Christian Tybring-Gedde, Kenneth Svendsen, Jørund Rytman and myself on an investigation of the dynamic effects of tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e193	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e196	On behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to implement an action plan against Jewish hatred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e201	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e204	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on better coordination and strategic management of ICT projects in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e209	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e212	On behalf of the representative Bent Höie and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new coal strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e217	The representative of Trond Helleland wants to put forward a proposal for a representative. Helleland. The representative of Greece does not want to make a proposal for a representative – but the representative of Anders B. Werp does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e222	On behalf of the representatives André Oktay Dahl, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, Lars Myraune, Svein Harberg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on targeted and reinforced efforts for information and cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e227	The representative, Mr Bavøy, wants to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e230	Today, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative from the representatives of Line Henriette Hämdal, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Hans Olav Syversen, Dagrun Eriksen and myself on reducing the time frame and the extent of latencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e235	With regard to the announced proposal for a representative to represent Trond Helleland, the President cannot see that some of the other proposers are here either, and then we must try to get through the summer without having the opportunity to work on it! All proposals submitted will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The president, Mr Borghild Tenden, asked for the floor to be put to the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e243	It is not about the agenda today, but it is simply about a voting yesterday that I need to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e248	With the approval of the Storting, the President is prepared to allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e251	Unfortunately, the left voted against III in the defence vote. We should vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e256	Then today's Minutes will show what is the original position of the Left in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e270	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e297	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 2 hours and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers and the parliamentary leaders of each party group, and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e308	The backstop when we now look at proposals for a revised national budget for the government is serious, not initially at home, but in many of the countries on which the Norwegian economy is very dependent. Both in the last few months and years, what started as a financial crisis has now evolved into a debt crisis. It has also evolved into a human crisis in many countries, including the United States and Japan. in the southern European countries, there is an increase in unemployment and unrest among individual families and individuals. The repeated turmoil that we are now seeing in financial markets, and the turmoil it is creating around Spain, for example, is a strong reminder that the Norwegian economy, despite its success now, is in a vulnerable position and in a state of shock. That's why we don't have to take anything for granted. I mentioned that Norway is doing well. It is also reflected in the revised national budget. GDP has now grown in nine consecutive quarters. Employment is increasing, and unemployment in Norway is low in both international and historical terms. By the end of 2011, there were nearly 300,000 more employed than when compared with 2005, the vast majority in the private sector. I don't know if these are the results that industry, workers, most people – our country – have created together in recent years, which is why it's rare for me that the hearing bodies have been so unambiguous in their feedback when the finance committee has held a hearing on the matter. At least it was clear that the largest business organisations, both on the employer's side and on the employee's side, and the municipalities, who have received a municipal service presented in parallel with the revision, were very pleased and have given very good feedback. That is good, because it is a very solid piece of political work that the government has presented in the draft revised national budget. But nothing comes of itself. There's a reason for the results, and it's not natural for the results we're now seeing to stand for eternity. It is safe governance, effort and willingness to make tough priorities and choices that enable us to keep people in work in Norway. Some have tried to present it as if it were going well in Norway because of the oil anyway. That's wrong. Many countries have had large revenues from natural resources without avoiding crises. Sigbjørn Johnsen probably gets into this, because we've also experienced this in this country. We had oil money in the 1980s, in the 1990s and early 2000s. Likewise, we had crisis and unemployment. Workplaces disappeared, and industrial enterprises ended up – with oil money. It is not natural, therefore, that meeting wealth should in itself make things go well in a country. No, it is, as I said, safe economic governance, an innovative adaptive business and a highly educated population that is our greatest competitive advantage. In Norway, we have been able to create the best from two worlds – a capitalist market-based economy at the bottom, which is the engine of prosperity development, with a clear political fair framework around which to govern and balance. That's the Norwegian model I'm now talking about. There are many good bets in the revised. I can mention the tri-processing package to convert that industry, study places, new seed funds, breast reconstruction, transport aircraft and several things. This is what many of the speakers will think about in different articles, so I'm not spending any time on it right now. I want to use the rest of my contribution to make two assessments of the economic political situation as reflected in the revised, but which has also been part of the political debate throughout the winter, and which I am absolutely sure will shape the political landscape from now until the 2013 elections. One thing I would like to highlight is one of the foundations of economic policy, with broad support in the Grand Duchy. It is striking here that the largest opposition party is now using the occasion revised to go through the side up and down to a powerful attack on the rule of action, which is one of the foundations of economic policy, in a situation where times are very, very alarming around us. In my view, the rule of action is not about whether you can allow yourself from year to year to use the one extra billion. The rule of action is not about that, but it is about our collective ability to resist the shadows, or the temptations, that wealth brings when countries get a lot of income in a short time. I would say that the rule of action is our self-imposed protection against overbidden policy, a policy of over-the-counter which has led many European countries into the way they are today. Such a policy is something I would strongly warn against. The existence of the rule of action and the fact that changing governments, not just today’s government, have chosen to follow it over time, have been one of the most important contributions to safe economic governance in Norway. The rule of action is more than an economic critique; it is a social contract between responsible politicians and the Norwegian people. I mentioned the Norwegian model. One of the conditions that makes the Norwegian model work as well is something indefinable, which we cannot adopt here in Stortinget. That's what we call trust, cohesion, in the population, that we trust each other. I don't believe in any way that we can underestimate the effect of being a business in Norway in a society where you actually trust each other in the first place. That trust should not be underestimated. It's just the trust that's built up over time by following a rule, which has enabled us now to manage the enormous wealth that we've, after all, inherited from generations behind us, in a way that doesn't put everything above us. We show that we are worthy of that trust. It is this rule, which has broad support in the Stortinget, that the Progress Party is now under attack. I have now given my ideological political defence for it. I expect the right-hand side in general and the right-hand side in particular, which is a safe defender of this so far, to be equally tough on it when it comes to negotiating in the public debate and possibly with the Progress Party before 2013. The second relationship is the relationship between tax and welfare. I'm not going to go very deep into it, except to point out that there are still significant differences between today's government and the parties that want to overthrow today's government, through a democratic election next harvest – I had to add it, because there is nothing undemocratic about this, rather the opposite. But there's something undefined and teflonish, as some would say, when we're not quite able to get the grip on the scale of the tax cuts and what taxes are to be cut, and how the relationship between well-being and income is to be connected, when the right parties talk. We have made a very clear political choice, and the government supports it in the revised national budget. We say no to tax cuts and no to tax cuts, because we think there are so many unsolved tasks in a modern country, which is also one of the richest countries in the world, and there are things that are more important. I therefore think it would be foolish if, over a year in the future, we were not to be able to get a clear answer to the extent to which we want to cut taxes, what to cut taxes and what to put up with in the political debate. I have at least intended to make my contribution, but it would have been much more pleasant if the right parties themselves could instead contribute to this. It is also part of the story that it is not today's government, with today's revised, and with today's tax policy, which is immature and old-fashioned. No, it is those who advocate the opposite that stands for an out-of-date policy. What happens now around us in many countries in Europe? Yes, country by country cancels its huge tax promises. In many European countries they even go to the step of increasing taxes, including in countries governed by civil and right-wing governments, both income taxes, corporate taxes and indirect taxes. I am pleased to provide evidence that the overall tax burden in Europe has increased since the financial crisis. I would like to see someone pointing out that I am wrong. Therefore, it is these European countries that look at the Nordic countries — not the other way around. I therefore do not understand why it is going to be a proper political choice for the country, in the years to come, to go the opposite way of the one that very many European countries are going – countries with which we like to compare – when we are a country that still has major shortcomings in school and care for the elderly, we should build roads and railways on a larger scale than what we are doing today – but then we cannot waste money on huge tax cuts. I think it is these two issues that this debate and the debate to 2013 should be about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e341	Here, there were an incredible number of rafts being presented – so many that I almost don't know what to ask about. First of all, the rule of action is not followed. Had it been followed, at least the representative had had a point. The infrastructure in Norway is due, which the representative Micaelsen himself was involved in when he at the end mentioned all the deficiencies that are. We might need a hundred billion dollars to rust up both the road and the track. I believe that the representative Mikalsen is wise to use Norwegian money, place it in e.g. German debt securities to 1,8 pst. interest, so that the Municipal Bank can borrow exactly the same money back to finance road projects, to 6.5 pst. interest? It's a truth that the Micah also knows. He thinks it's wise to borrow the money out to 1.8 pst. interest and loan the same money back to 6.5 pst. interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e350	The reasoning put forward here by Christian Tybring-Gjedde and the Advance Party is based on completely wrong and completely different assumptions than those of everyone else in this Chamber. What is the background to the rule of action – our way of organizing our common wealth, oil, on? In 2001, the recognition that for an open, small and competitive economy, there are some limits to the amount of extraordinary revenues from the natural resource that can be phased in over time. Therefore, the choice is not really about whether to place the money in Germany or Norway. The whole point of the rule of action is – what to say – to keep order, in the sense that gradually and over time, money from oil is phased into Norway. Therefore, the choice between Germany and Norway is not available. The point is that we cannot spend all of this money at the same time in Norway. This is something that everyone other than the Advance Party agrees on. Let me add: we're now using 100 billion. kr from the oil, but the Party of Advancement is still not satisfied. It's not for believers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e359	I note that the representative Micaelsen draws up some large lines. If there is something remarkable about the revision, it is not used as revised to discuss the big lines of the Norwegian economy. He says about taxes and welfare that the red-green government has made some political choices. What you've actually done is the political choice from the fact that the Bondevik II government found the perfect tax level. It is the only political choice the red-green government has made. The Micasen knows very well that our tax measures are aimed at increasing job availability by reducing pay-up taxes, increasing the minimum deduction considerably, and removing parts of the wealth tax in order to stimulate savings. I would like to ask the Micaelsen back: is he not concerned about the build-up of the debt of households in Norway today? We have answers from the Ministry of Finance that show that the debt situation is significantly worse than it was during the crisis we had in the 1980s.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e370	Well, that's why I think it's irresponsible to go to the elections to remove the property tax – which at least has an element of taxed property – as many other countries do. I believe that many municipalities can rightly say that in my municipality it is right to tax property something, which is against the right because it creates large revenues into the common fund. That is also why I believe it is irresponsible when the representative Gundersen and the rest of the Right believe that the Stortinget, or the Minister of Finance, will override the Financial Supervisory Authority in a matter of equity requirements in the housing sector. I think it's almost as irresponsible as this big deal was supposed to decide that we should run the interest politically. This is a professional question, because we are concerned that there is an imbalance in the housing market. There are completely different things that need to be done than some simple quick fix solutions to solve the challenges in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e377	I actually think I heard that the committee leader in his post raised the rule of action to be ideology. I understand the need for ideological reorientation on the socialist side, but the rule of action to become the new ideological foundation was a little surprising. Otherwise, you can see, by listening to the committee leader, the election strategy of the Workers' Party. There is a bad course with Jens and Torgeir, and then there is chaos with Erna and Knut Arild and some others. I don't think the voters bit that at all – rather on the contrary. But to take an example of what you get, and do nothing about it: we have a hearing-impaired school in the representative's home country that is forced to privatize by this government. Now you make sure it gets so bad money that it goes beyond the students. Is there not such a revised budget that should be used to rectify it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e386	Well, in the sense that there's a revised opportunity to go into that kind of thing. We have done that very thoroughly – I have done what the committee has done – among other things. through consultations and own meetings. It has also resulted in the majority of the committee having a majority opinion, which I am a little uncertain about whether the Christian People's Party is in, but we have to come back to that. It points out that it may seem that this school has not been able to meet the pension costs they have by going to private school. It is also part of the story that this concerns two schools that have had a very loose connection with the public. There are schools for hearing impaired people, or people with more extensive limitations. One school has negotiated with the state in the same way as Briskeby and has come to an agreement that seems to all be satisfied with. So I mean we've listened, and we're able to turn around when it's necessary. But I'm not a supporter of simply paying out money, when you don't see the allocation in a larger context – which we do every time in the state budget context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e391	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e395	Much goes well in Norway, let it lie at the root of the debate we now have. This is no black paint – there is no reason for black paint – there is good reason to enjoy much of what works. On the other hand, after hearing the statement made to the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee, there is a basis for questioning whether the government understands the driving forces of the economy. Statistical central agency, which has been the employer of today’s prime minister, has said that much of the reason — indeed, the main reason — for things to go well is investment from the oil industry. Oil investments are increasing year by year and are becoming record high. They were this year, they're getting even higher next year, mainly because of high oil prices, i.e. conditions outside of Norwegian policy. Next year, the oil industry will invest 194.3 billion. kr. That's 70 billion. kr more than just three years ago, and it's up from 63 billion. kr from 10 years ago. This gives a huge stimulus. Thus, only in the last three years is the increase in three financial crisis packages for 2013 – three financial packages more into the Norwegian economy come from oil investments compared to just three years ago. One realizes that it produces results. That's why I'm worried when the government later on as if the reason for today's wealth is that one has a high tax level, strong public sector with a lot of regulation. It suggests that the Norwegian economy is poorly placed on the day the oil price is low and oil investments are on the level of what they were ten years ago. It worries me, because what we see now, with increased wages, weakens competitiveness. If we believe that there are even higher taxes that will be the solution – since it has allegedly been the solution so far – an uncompetitive Norwegian industry will be very quick. Then I heard the post of the committee leader saying that the rule of action is the great ideology that has steered us away from the crisis in Europe. It is with respect to report nothing but customs. Yes, it's important that we use the oil money in a sensible way. It is also important that the next generations should enjoy the oil wealth we have, and that it be represented through, among other things. saving abroad. But it's an illusion that you can trick the Norwegian people into thinking that all the oil money is going through the state budget. This year, the state's investment on Norwegian pedestal will be 26 billion. kr. All of the money goes beyond the rule of action, and more than half of this money has actually never been decided upon. This is what Petoro decides on his own. Similarly, this government has spent 19 billion dollars. NOK to buy Statoil shares, SEK 5 billion. NOK to buy Aker shares, 5 billion. kr to enter DNB. I could still be like that for a long time. It is used around 35-40 billion. oil crowns outside the framework of the State budget each year. Giving the impression that a couple of billions of dollars from or to road investments had tipped the Norwegian economy off, is with respect to reporting only hesitate, for in an economy of 2,500 billion. There is no slight increase in road investment that destroys the Norwegian economy. Better infrastructure is, on the contrary, a key prerequisite for the future competitiveness of the economy. Unfortunately, the government treats road and rail construction as if it were only current expenditure – at least the head of the financial committee refers to it as being. Then he should have been at some road conferences, for example. Cambridge Systematics International said that if Norway had invested more in its main road network, we would have received NOK 3.50 in increased value creation for every penny we invested. At least I think it's a good investment. But with today's rule of action, one can't do such things without one in the government's eyes becoming an economic criminal. On the other hand, it is okay for this government to step more money into SAS, because SAS is by definition an investment. It can be done without prioritizing anything else. If we want to spend more money on research, on teachers, on nurses and on road workers, it creates inflation. But spending more money on airplane liners, it's magically elevated above inflation rules -- maybe because they're flying so high up in the air. But that is not the way we can conduct economic policy. We can't pretend that flight attendants are high-ranking, while people who build the country aren't. Therefore, there has to be another rule of action, a rule of action that makes it possible to distinguish consumption from investment, and that allows one to invest in the Norwegian economy when it makes sense. The government trusts Avinor to do this. Why can't we trust that a state road company and a state railway company had completed the same task? When I look around this room, I see people from all the parties who want to change the way we finance infrastructure investments in Norway. Party leaders from almost all parties in this room want to make changes, but no one dares to challenge the sacred rule of action, perhaps because it has become the ideology of today's government rather than a pragmatic and sensible solution. Under the red-green rule, the expenditure in the State budget has increased by 50 pst. Over 350 B.C.E. kr more will be used in 2012 compared to the last budget of the Bondevik government. It's a crazy increase. So we're not just going to say that more oil money is an important solution to all things. That is why we must also give better priority to the budgets. That's what the Progress Party does. In our draft budget last autumn, we cut net public expenditure by 15 billion. kr. Within that framework, we were able at the same time to find areas of activity for road, rail, health and the elderly. In addition, we reduced taxes. But we reduced taxes a little bit more than what we cut public expenditure with. That's why we increased the use of oil money a little bit. But we think it would make us get a bigger pie in the long term, and that would also make sense for the Norwegian economy. But I'm a little in doubt as to whether today's government is looking at the possibilities to streamline the public sector. When the Advance Party cuts taxes and taxes, the argument from the red-greens is that then we also have to cut in hospital places. I'm sorry, but the Progress Party will never cut hospitals to improve other areas of the Norwegian economy. It gets to be a red-green way of prioritizing. But we see many other opportunities to streamline the Norwegian economy. One example is the report that MENON made recently to the academics, where they show that it is possible to streamline the public sector and save 30 billion. kr to buy goods and services better into government – 30 billion. kr. But with the fact that the government always draws up hospital places in which the first one has to cut, it shows that the government prioritises health and older people less than the Progress Party does – while the Advance Party prioritises better use of tax money. In the revised state budget, oil revenue increases by 27 billion. kr, the rest is saved directly abroad. The party of progress accepts it. It's more surprising that the government requires the 5 billion. kr in increased income from taxes from the mainland must also go straight out of the country and be saved in the oil fund. We find that unreasonable. Is really the rest of the world the best place to place the surplus in the government budget coming from Norwegian taxpayers? No, the Progress Party believes. The space for action we have must be used for growth-promoting investment and tax relief. In a troubled economy that we now experience, it is important that we also strengthen our competitiveness. Today, many countries are undergoing horse health cures that hurt, but they have to go through it no matter how difficult it is, simply because countries have to balance their budgets. There are many of our competitors who are now experiencing a real wage drop and a great deal of pressure on reform. I do not decide whether it is right or wrong – I just notice that it happens. But when they're done, we're going to meet a much more competitive foreigner than what we're doing today. When Norwegian real wages continue to rise, while competitors are flat, or falling in wages, this will be difficult for us in a few years, if we do not take reasonable steps in the Norwegian economy at the same time. We're not going to use the revised budget for rematches. We accept that we lost some priorities last fall, and we base the government's budget when we now make revisions. But we want it to increase the action space by a total of 6 billion. kr, which is available, is actually used to strengthen Norwegian business and Norwegian economy. Then we don't spend any more oil money than it cost a fortune last year from the government. Therefore, it can not be irresponsible – even if the government will try to stick it on us. We have to make sure that industry and infrastructure come out better. As I said, good road investment yields returns to society. That will speed up the Progress Party. Those who think we should save the oil money today, rather than take them out in 10-15 years and then build roads, make a strategic bomb. The experience from 1998 to this day shows that if we had set out a given sum for road construction in 1998, they would have left them in the oil fund and taken them out today and invested in roads, we would have got 40 pst. less path for the same money, even with the return on the oil fund. That's not a good way to build the country. This is simply about the costs of some infrastructure construction. Costs of replacing lost land to rebuild societies are becoming more expensive the more one has built up society along the way. That is why we propose what Sigbjørn Johnsen, today's finance minister, himself called for four years ago: we propose in the revised budget to transform the State Roads Agency and the Railway Agency into state limited liability companies according to the Avinor model, add equity to them, and allow them to operate and develop road projects after ordering from landfill and government, but do so with a long-term perspective. It would have been doing something good for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e431	Unfortunately, the President has to point out that neither the term ‘customs’ nor the term ‘tunnel’ are parliamentary forms of expression, and the forms of parliamentary expression also apply to the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e436	Can I make suggestions that the Progress Party is behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e441	Then the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e444	I tried in my post to show that it's not what Solvik-Olsen here points to, the last 2 billion. This means that the economic policy of a country has confidence or not, but that something is happening over time, and that there is something rules-based around it. Let me do a few more examples to substantiate just this. In 2007, the government's oil money spending was 71 billion. kr. The Progress Party plus in its alternate budget of 22.9 billion. kr. In 2009, the government’s oil money usage had increased to 92 billion. kr. The progress part plus over 30 billion. kr. In 2011, the government’s oil money spending was 128 billion. kr estimated – a very serious financial crisis year. The progress part plus over 12 billion. kr. That's how I could still have. What's the point of this? Well, no matter what the rest of us offer, there's always a party representative who offers more. This is the policy of surrendering. That's what's dangerous if you're not able to follow the rule that everyone else has imposed on us. Then it can go wrong. This is what Solvik-Olsen has to explain to a greater extent than the techniques and budgetary techniques on which he spends all his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e455	This would be a good idea if you wanted to understand what the Progress Party is saying. In many debates, the Chair of the Committee and the undersigned have tried to explain this to each other. I think that if the committee leader had gone on a little bit more economic courses and a little less AUF courses, the assumptions would have been a little bit better. What I have stressed to the committee chairman many times is that the Progress Party wants to separate consumption and investment. We're reducing what's state consumption, and then we're increasing what's state investment. By increasing government investment, growth in the Norwegian economy is increasing. So let's think about what the government does before we start cutting and adding itself. That's why there's a little difference between how much we add in each year. Some years we see that it's more fleshy to cut away from the public sector, the second year it's smaller. Just because the government's oil money usage has increased as much as it has, we have seen less need to spend more oil money than what we, for example. Some years ago — because there are greater opportunities for re-prioritisation. But there is no doubt that it makes sense to speed up some investments in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e464	Loans in the private economy have increased significantly in recent years. Still more traces that a living bubble is in the ant, the discussion goes on how long it has. The Party of Progress is clearly not willing to put in place any measures to prevent this. They say no to the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority for 15 p.m. equity, which is a concrete tool to stop the growth of loans and prevent Norwegian youth from ending up as a debt victim. The question is: does the Progress Party believe that an unregulated market will best prevent the housing bubble and other crises in the financial market?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e473	The answer to that is no, but let me explain it a little. The Progress Party is also concerned about the debt developments that we have seen under today's red-green government. The municipal sector now has much higher levels of indebtedness than before, and private households have the same. It's a bit because government expectations are created that municipalities can only finance loans, so they get interest compensation – so it's just getting started. It provides an artificial picture of good performance in the public sector – better than it is on the basis of. Private households enjoy low interest rates and take up loans. But on the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority for a maximum of 85 pst. the loan share is the solution to this, the Progress Party disagrees with. What we see is that the government says that people can only go to the House Bank, so you bypass this code. The second thing we see is that some young people take credit card loans to finance equity because the Financial Supervisory Authority does not regulate that market as well. Instead of having a good market, where everyone can enter the mortgage market, you get other types of loans. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e482	I'll follow up on the same theme. It is clear that when the Financial Supervisory Authority increases the requirement of equity to 15 p.m., which has a broad disintegration in the government parties, it will mean a real tightening. The representative of Solvik-Olsen knows better, he knows that it involves total real tightening. The representative of Solvik-Olsen also knows that what he says here about debt and similar glory, they have no suggestion to weaken the borrowing. My question is, is the Progress Party essentially disagree with the equity requirement, or is it the size, or what is it? Is this something that the state shouldn't interfere with?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e489	No, the Progress Party has been clear that we think the requirement that was before was good. Then we have supported the requirement of the Financial Supervisory Authority that when banks assess debt, they should assess all debt, not just housing debt. Credit card debt and the like must also be included. But pretending that if you just require 15 pst. equity instead of 10 pst., the housing market gets better and everyone manages to get in, we fundamentally disagree. It also shows the government when it says that the House Bank will receive increased funds, so that people can go beyond the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority for regular banks. Then you show that you think it's okay that people borrow 100 pst. But that's just not supposed to happen through a private bank. The second is that we see people financing equity with credit cards. It's a worse way than giving them a little more mortgage through the banks. The assumption is that the banks take the responsibility they have to take, namely to look at the individual's handling capacity. Current policies allow housing sharks with equity to ‘eat up’ young students without equity — for young people being forced into the rental market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e496	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e500	The economic crisis facing several European countries is primarily a problem for the people affected, either because they lose their jobs or because they lose public goods because of severe cuts. What started as a financial crisis, which evolved into a debt and job crisis, can once again develop into a new financial crisis. In an open and globalised economy, such severe setbacks have an impact on many countries. The situation is uncertain and creates uncertainty. The experts' analysis cracks. At a few days' intervals we could read in Norwegian media that Elisabeth Holvik in SpareBank 1 The Group believed that ‘the euro is going’ and that we are approaching ‘the final count down’ for the euro. While Vice-Chancellor Harald Magnus Andreassen pointed out that: ‘The export winner of goods in Europe in recent years has a large margin in Greece. Number 2 is Portugal and number 3 is Spain.» He thinks the improvement will come faster than many would like to think. And on the other hand, ‘There has already been a strong internal devaluation in Greece and costs have fallen.’ The crisis has, among other things: the origins of national policy-makers’ money use. Several countries have used more than they create, and have borrowed more than they can repay, while countries that have kept track of the economy have come out much better. Germany has a unemployment rate that is now approaching the Norwegian level. Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland and the Baltic States are working out of the crisis in an impressive way. The main lesson of the crisis, in addition to the importance of proper regulation and monitoring of financial markets, is the importance of keeping the economy in order. But although there are – as I have pointed out – shades between European countries, there is no need to blow the ‘danger over’. We need to be ready, because the crisis is developing further, it is obvious that Norway can be affected. But I feel absolutely safe – I would like to stress – that Norway is well prepared to deal with any acute crises, whether in the financial market or in the real economy. Norway has good experience in dealing with financial turmoil and setbacks, and we have money on book and good government finances, which allows action to be taken if a more acute crisis develops. In other words, the challenge for the Norwegian economy and for our jobs is not in the short term. On the contrary, Norway continues to experience good growth. Our challenge, on the other hand, lies in an increasingly clear division of business, where the oil and gas sectors are experiencing very good times. Yes, today you could read in today's business that the oil party beats all the records, and that fat pay supplements are on the way. It is good that we are doing well in the oil sector, but it also presents us with challenges when we see that the other part of Norwegian industry, which is exposed to competition and exports to Europe, is hit because of its lack of competitiveness. Yes, competitiveness is weakened every year under red-green rule. They meet a falling market, and they have strange taxes and demands at home. The consequences of this can be seen in the revised national budget, where production shows a decline in this part of industry. It's investment dry and unsafe jobs. Over time, this development can make us more vulnerable, because both jobs and the financing of the welfare community become too dependent on oil revenues. I'm not drawing a dark picture of the situation in Norway today, but I'm pointing out that in the years to come, we're facing a significant challenge related to the two-way division of our business. The government is taking this development seriously by holding back the use of oil money. That's good. At the same time, the 2012 budget has become the most expansive budget since the financial crisis in 2009. Together with the lack of prioritisation of research and development, and increased taxes on private sector jobs, government policies help to strengthen the two-way divide in business. The right cleared up into the Norwegian economy in the context of the recession in the economy between 2001 and 2005 together with other bourgeois parties. The policy helped to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses, and we provided a basis for the outstanding growth in the private sector that followed in the following years. Yes, the management of the crisis – by the civil government – was so successful that in 2005, the daily newspaper wrote that Jens Stoltenberg came to the ‘covered table’ after the election. To the right, there is a need for a long-term strategy to create and secure jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises and in the non-oil and gas sector. Although this is a revised national budget, we believe that the budget should also be used to point forward in terms of the policies to be pursued, the strategies to be followed, and we are promoting a proposal for a conversion package for the non-oil and gas competitive sector. The point of this is to take the first steps. It is about investing in nutrient research and an improved tax FUNN scheme. It is about better depreciation rules for machinery to give better conditions to those parts of the economy that have investment power. This is a major effort to build skills, including: through in-house training, so that employees can improve their skills, and it is a matter of increased commitment to transport, so that goods can be brought forward more quickly. At Nok.no this morning we could read that the differences are increasing in school, with a background in the students' social background. This is one of the biggest challenges in Norwegian school. If we are unable to compensate for the social inequalities, we can risk that large youth groups today will have problems in the labour market tomorrow. If there's one thing we know from all the school research that's been presented over the last few years, it's that the good teacher drums everything! Then it's not enough to talk about the teacher, you have to bet on the teacher. Therefore, the Right proposes a high level of further training of teachers. It is far from sufficient for less than 2000 teachers to receive continuing training when we know that there are more than 4000 teachers who have applied for continuing training. We address this challenge again, because the good teacher trumps everything. The most important thing to do is to make sure that we compensate for the social differences and help all students to extend and develop their talent. So there's a problem I want to address in the end, because it illustrates a little bit how we meet people in our society who really need the support of society. It is young people who are on their way out – I am a little uncertain whether it is a parliamentary expression – drug hell, young people who are in rehabilitation and who need extra help to get a training offer. There is today a very good training offer at the Tyrili Foundation in Hedmark and the Fossum Collective in Eastfold. That offer is in the process of being dismantled, not because the offer is not good, but because of a funding gap between county and state. It's totally meaningless that the public can't clean up these things. That's why I'm glad that the non-socialist parties in the election are asking the government to clear up that issue, so that these young people can get needed help. With this, I would like to address the proposals where the right is either the author of the proposal or the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e540	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has made a number of suggestions, as shown by the vote. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e545	The representative Sanner spoke unusually little about tax cuts in his post, and I assume that this is not what the Right is talking about most in these days. But last year the Right proposed significant tax cuts in its alternative state budget. When we calculate the distribution effect of those proposals, it becomes clear to us that the vast majority will benefit the richest, those who have revenues of over three million. kr, such as It may be used in the following situations: 36 000 kroner in tax bills a year, while people with low and common incomes are eaten off with a few hundred bills. This has been throughout all the alternative budgets of the Right. We can't see that there's been any changes in the revision that's changing it. Does the Representative True the overall distribution effects of the Right Tax Arrangement and that they would lead to greater differences in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e550	The answer to that question is no. The proposals that the Right promotes are primarily about securing jobs in private enterprises. The biggest tax cut, as referred to here, is about starting the degression of the strangest tax in Norwegian jobs. I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party still sees the wealth tax as a tax on wealth, when it is actually a tax on Norwegian jobs. I am absolutely convinced that when the representative travels around and visits private companies, Norwegian jobs, in her own county, she will hear that the wealth tax is a significant problem for these jobs. The second big tax cut proposed by the Right is about reducing the tax on the low and usual employee income. That is our second important priority, by increasing the minimum deduction, not in the revised national budget, but in the ordinary budgets. It should be possible to live on your own income, and it should pay off to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e557	The right-hand budgetary options indicate that they will cut regional development funds. In the alternative state budget of the Right, they cut into the whole scheme. This means, in reality, that the whole instrument is regional, both funds for innovation in Norway, which goes to business start-ups, and funds for regional development programmes. For North Norway, this means a cut of 600 million. kr. The joint effort of the whole part of the country on travel is financed by this scheme, as well as a significant contribution to raising the level of competence, marketing and investment in both travel and other industries. How does the Right so large cut in the tools explain to business?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e562	Let me say it that way, it's very rare that I meet companies that demand more money for county regional development funds, because that's what we're talking about. The right is more focused on Innovation Norway, more on Seed Fund schemes and other instruments targeted directly at business. But we see no need to go through the county to support Norwegian business. On the other hand, we use all this money to bet more on roads, so that the goods can get faster, and people can get home safely. I also want to show that it is not right that the Right reduces this type of instrument towards North Norway. On the contrary, we set our own pot to North Norway to promote skills development, so that the ringing effects of the oil and gas sectors can be more enjoyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e567	Developments in Europe are incredibly important for Norway, and it is frightening, because it contains so many unsocial elements. The representative, Sanner, said that this was the result of national policies and the money usage of national politicians. It is not unknown that there are different cultures of money use in the euro area. There's a big difference between Germany and France. In the view of the Centre Party, the cause is far more important. It's a system error - a single currency with a common interest rate. It is very wrong to implement it for countries with different business, different employment and different consumption cultures. My question is: is it surprising today for the representative Sanner that there were errors with the single currency, at the same low interest rate in the euro area?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e572	Not to be surprised that it was a challenge. This was pointed out by most EU politicians. It also pointed to Norwegian EU followers. But I want to show that I didn't say that it's just because national politicians have used more than what they create, and borrowed more than they can pay back. I said ‘amongst other things’. What is a reality is that, among other things, Greece borrowed money with, I was saying, Germany as a bailiff. Clearly, things had to go wrong. But it's also a national responsibility. There are also national politicians who have borrowed more money than they can repay. With regard to political economic soberness, I think the representative Lundtigen and the representative Sanner have a good deal to talk about. But I would also like to point out that countries that were not part of the euro, among others. Britain under Blair, was about as far down. But they're working out of the crisis with a conservative, liberal government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e577	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e580	In particular, it is to debate Norway’s national budget in a situation where Europe has experienced its most serious crisis since the last world war. While large parts of Europe experience record high unemployment, severe cuts in welfare services and widespread pessimism, Norwegian economies are doing very well; low unemployment, low interest rates and growth. It provides the basis for some reflections. The situation in Europe, and especially in the south, is dramatic. They are facing several crises at the same time; economic crisis, euro crisis, and not least a social crisis. Southern European countries are now being forced into comprehensive welfare, which is being brutal for the most part. Those that have at least before are the ones that have to carry the heaviest bar. Despite the fact that Norway has to emerge from the outside as an oasis of prosperity and stability, much of the internal debate is marked by dissatisfaction and suspense. I think we'd all be happy to have a little more focus, where a little side view across Europe will teach us to appreciate more of what's going well here in the country. The aim of Norwegian policy is to prevent unemployment. The old slogan ‘All the people at work’ remains highly valid, but if we are to avoid increased unemployment, it will require a firm grip on the governance of the economy. The main challenge for us now is a significant division of the economy. Here, we believe that the level of investment in the oil sector is very high and represents a significant price driver in the economy, because it challenges in particular that part of the industry and industry in Norway that is not related to the oil sector but that depends on exports. This two-way division of the economy is all reason to believe will become stronger in the years to come. SV believes that the only good thing would be to put the brakes on in the oil sector. This can be done by reducing the distribution of new oil licences and taking new steps in fiscal policy. It'll be better for the Norwegian economy if the growth curve here flattened out and stretched out in time, than it's now going straight to the weather, and then falling like a rock. We also have major challenges in the housing sector. A housing bubble is developing, prices are very high, especially in the central districts of the country, and the debt in the private economy is very high. If we get a crack in the housing market, there are a lot of people who have big financial problems. The young people entering the housing market become the losers. The threshold for start-ups and young families has become insurmountable. There is a need for a combination of measures to stop this increase in prices; more dwellings and more rentals need to be built. At the same time, the provision of start-up and start-up loans needs to be improved and expanded, and action needs to be taken quickly. Young first-time start-ups must be able to buy or rent housing while having an economy to live on. The right-hand and the right-hand parties’ options with one-sided review of the professional judgements of the Financial Supervisory Authority in order to reduce the ownership requirement will create only more victims of debt. Of the proposals in the revised national budget, I, as an SV, would like to say something particularly gratifying to me, and here I would like to highlight three things: firstly, that we are able to set up 1 000 new universities and public and private universities. The application for higher education is very good, with a growth of 6.5 pst. from 2011 to 2012. Greater training capacity is needed in the years to come. We need more engineers, more teachers, and we need to train more people in the health sector. Therefore, this increase is an important investment for the future. We're also happy that child protection is strengthened by 432 million. kr. There is a significant need to strengthen child protection, not least yesterday’s report from the National Audit Offices confirms. The government prioritises child protection high – higher than 20 years old – and we get more money and more child protection jobs now and in the years to come. The last thing I want to mention is that it's allocated 50 million. extra to strengthen the offer for patients waiting for breast reconstruction. In winter it was with good reason put the search light on that many breast cancer-surgeons must wait too long for a new breast after the surgery. The Minister for Health has responded quickly and called for reconstruction and new breasts to be part of the overall treatment. With this appropriation, we have speeded up the removal of an excessive waiting list – 1 400 women are now waiting for breast reconstruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e612	In a lot of environmental debates that I've participated in, SV emphasizes that you have to stop flying – at least you have to fly less than today – because it gives unwanted emissions, and it's very dangerous for our common future. On the other hand, it is desirable that people take more trains, for trains should be very good. On the other hand, the economic policy of the government, which SV fully supports, says that you can use oil money outside the rule of action to invest in airlines, such as SAS. It's spent 1 billion. kr in 2009 and 2010 to strengthen SAS’ ability to fly as much as possible. If, on the other hand, one would give the same money to build a railway, e.g. To speed up the intercity plans around Oslo, which would definitely be good, both to make people stop driving and drive collectively, you can't spend the money for it. So, it's allowed to use extra oil money outside the rule of action to sponsor airlines, but not to build a railway. Does it really seem that this is a good rule of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e621	I am pleased that the Progress Party is committed to investing more in the railway. It wasn't the party before. So that's where we agree. What I want to say to Solvik-Olsen is that if you're going to get more money for the railway, you have to give priority to the railway. That's what this government has done. It spends so many times as much money on the railway as the former Bondevik government did, with which the Progress Party cooperated. We have to give priority to the railway. Especially in central lines, we need to prioritize down the four-field highway when we prioritize up the railway. This priority is not the Progress Party willing to do. Until they are willing to do that priority, they are not a credible railway party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e628	For almost eight years, SV has maintained the Higher Tax Policy of the Bondevik II Government. It's obviously beginning to be difficult for them. Despite the fact that the figures show that Norway consumes 1 200 billion. Last night, with State Secretary Roger Schjerva at the head, SV worked with many proposals to increase taxes and taxes in Norway. This applies, inter alia, to: taxes on banks, taxes on oil companies and taxes on air passengers. Obviously, a whole bunch of other suggestions are in. I would like to ask the question to SV while the Minister of Finance listens to: What taxes and taxes does SV want to impose on the Norwegian people that they have not already received, after eight years in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e637	First: Cambe refers to internal working groups, as we must say, is the beginning of the work on next year's electoral programme. We have working groups in both economics, health, school and education. This is an early stage process. Our programme will be presented clearly and clearly for the autumn, in good time before the elections. What's going to happen – I'm not going to shoot too much – is nothing new in relation to the economic policy SV has been doing all the time: more redistribution, more tax for those who have the ability and ability to pay taxes, and less tax for those who have medium and low incomes. More redistribution and clear policies in this area are what will come from SV at the next major elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e644	When the new SV manager gave his national meeting speech, there were two areas he pointed out as important to get an impact on the SV's part. That was climate policy, that was the first. Here, the opposition has moved the government's environmental policy so that it becomes more offensive than the government assumed. The second was a big message that would guarantee the rights of children who are here and have applied for asylum. ‘Children on the run’ is the Storing Message. It is a big message that the Progress Party has embraced, because the party feels it is more similar to the policy they want to pursue, and that – it should be believed – was a little in contrast to what SV stands for. My question is: what is in the revised budget now to put the SV-stamp on government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e651	First, in my main post, I raised three clear issues that SV is pleased with in the revised national budget. We're also satisfied with the whole thing, with the priority. What Lysbakken promised in his national meeting speech is far on the way. He promised a good climate announcement – it's come. He also promised a communication on the rights of children, ‘Children in refugees’, which clearly indicates that UN practices should be changed. The rights of children shall be weighted more in respect of a residence permit. He promised another thing that it would soon be ours. That's also true. So all three promises he made in connection with the national meeting have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e658	It must be allowed to say that in the spring, I am a little in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e666	It is a development in Europe – from a financial crisis to a debt crisis and to the most serious, namely a political crisis. This is not, of course, a result of randomness. It's the result of a political fashion. That's the result of ideology. It's international, not just European. Through its policy at the end of the 1980s and 1990s, the International Monetary Fund has contributed to the situation, as it has contributed to financial speculation through its advice and behaviour. Within the European Union, a single currency was introduced, with a common economic policy – without a political union. Those who analysed the situation before this was introduced said very clearly that this had to go wrong. We, who are opponents of the European Union, are getting so right, so right. But sometimes it's sad to get as straight as what we experience when we see the huge consequences. For me, it was strong to experience the then head of the International Monetary Fund, Strauss-Kahn, holding his speech in the government quarter right after the government council had joined Sigbjørn Johnsen. He talked without a script for nearly 1 hour about the financial crisis and war. It was a frightening talk, which was referred to in the Norwegian press to a small extent. So it's incredibly important to be serious about the situation we're in now, both economically and politically. I would also like to say: it is important that Norway in this situation is not seafaring enough; it must be different countries that are not seafaring enough. The main comments of the government parties in today’s vote on the revised national budget focus on three main areas. One is the two-part division of business, between the economy that has good profitability, and the less profitable, which has its place in mainland Norway, in the mainland industry. It is important at this point that better balance the competitive situation between the two businesses, and it is a popular task. We cannot impose on business anything other than business's own profitability requirements, so that it is the framework to be laid down, which is the responsibility of the elected representatives here, and there is a need for greater effort. The second area to be considered in the main comments of the government parties is the geographical imbalance — the imbalance between Inland Norway being particularly dependent on the parts of the country that are taking part in the huge investments and the huge production of inputs related to the oil and gas industries. This is also equivalent to a popular responsibility, which one must be much more careful about for years to come, even in the very short term. There are such imbalances and forces in society that it will be very difficult to correct them with remedial measures, if one does not go to the main problem. The third problem — and the challenge — mentioned by the government parties is the division of labour. The statistics on earnings of the Statistical Central Bureau during the period 2000–2010 show that the highest earnings also had the highest wage growth — also the highest wage growth in percent and thus the highest wage growth in crowns. In the case of government parties, consideration for agility is essential and the role of the State is central. I can take an example from Buskerud County yesterday that shows the difference between the government parties and the opposition. The central party suggested a 5pst salary increase for the management of the Buskerud County Municipality. It received support from the Left, SV and Workers' Party, while the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party proposed a wage increase for management in the Buskerud county municipality of 10.7 p.m. It's showing leadership, in the situation we're in. It shows what kind of attitudes are moving in these parties, in the situation we're in. It is sad to experience such priorities. We in the Centre Party are pleased with the National Organisation’s reference to the two-part division of labour, with pay and working conditions, and we are pleased with what is pointed out about the differences between those born in Norway and those born in other countries who work in Norway. The government's efforts against social dumping and the publication of collective bargaining agreements are good, but the problem is maritimeised by the EEA Agreement, which has a much stronger force and makes the people elected weaker. There is today an expansive monetary policy in the Western world and also in Norway. The risk may be that we will have a low interest rate over a long period of time. It could also be a long time before we get a normal level of interest, so there's going to be some profitability in saving and some cost of borrowing. This has great consequences. The housing prices are very high, yes, they have never been higher. Households' debt is in the same position and has never been higher. A sustained low level of interest rates will give rise to an unwarranted high level of debt, and it must have the highest attention in the future. The consequences for the housing situation are that when we combine a very centralizing business with this level of interest rates, the prices of housing are pushed up into urban areas, which is very complicated and problematic. A pusher also increases the profits of investors buying housing for rental. In the districts, it's the other way around. Yes, in some places it's empty houses because of relocation. This must be a central element of the government’s announced policy on housing. In terms of these three main challenges, with these imbalances, the red-greens have the best chance of correcting it, because the voters on our basic plan are concerned with jabridity, and because many associated with the red-greens have a anchor for the practical, competitive work and business life, so that one knows this on the body. That's why we need to sense what's going on, and have a willingness to take a pragmatic approach to the use of the state's financial resources, so that we can correct the market forces. One of our major challenges is related to the woodworking industry. There the government is doing a first job in the revised national budget, and the Minister of Finance will have all the credit for that. What is clear is that forests and forest products are at the heart of the international bioeconomy. Norway has a particularly large room for action in this area, including: As a result of large forest resources, which can be exploited much better in a value-creating and – I stress – multi-use perspective. However, the high level of costs in Norway requires targeted investment on long value chains with a high level of payment for forest-based products that can be used more effectively. In some parts of the wood chemistry, Norway has a global advantage that needs to be addressed. However, this requires the development of a clear public strategy in terms of ownership, research efforts, multi-use and market orientation, in order to ensure that this international field can further develop the good assumptions Norway has. This is what I want to call the test whether we're doing something with the imbalances I've been saying, and it's an industry that has the potential for both positive climate impact, positive district impact, positive nutritional effect, positive impact for young people who want a versatile business life, so that they can meet their opportunities. Finally, the International Monetary Fund and the Loan Framework. On 9 December 2011, the euro area countries agreed to set aside 150 billion. EUR at the disposal of the IMF through bilateral loans. EU countries outside the euro area were also invited to participate. Sweden and Denmark followed up. On 21 December 2011, the Minister of Finance sent a letter to the IMF stating that Norway was willing to make up 54 billion. kr from the exchange rate at 10 May this year. It's a doubling of our commitments, it has a maturity of up to 15 years, and it's a security that's solid with all of the IMF's 188 countries. It should be reassuring, it is right to do so, but it presupposes, as mentioned earlier, that the IMF has a culture of adding financial stability and dampening speculation in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e702	The representative Lundtigen talks very much about the districts, and I think his interest and commitment to the districts is very genuine and real -- I don't doubt it. Today, investment for things needed in districts – transport, roads and railways, etc. – must compete with e.g. health and school, while other priorities may go beyond the State budget, for example: to aerodromes, State Power, Statoil and other things, as also the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen mentioned earlier today. So my question to Lundtegen: Now Lundtegen has been sitting and defending this government for years, and there is no change, but I see that the rhetoric is a little different than it was before. Does the representative Lundtegen think that today's way of financing the road and the track is the best, or does the representative Lundtegen work in his own government to see other ways of financing the railways and the roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e711	It is true that the state finances airports on the one hand and railways and state roads on the other hand differently. Airports are financed by Avinor as a separate economic and legal entity, which can then raise loans, while road and rail, on the other hand, are part of the state budget. What is important for the Central Party is that investment in road and rail must be under popular control all the time. It's part of the national transport plan, where the county councils come up with their priorities, the department comes up with its proposals, and the Stortinget makes decisions. It is a political issue with major implications for Norway’s appearance. It cannot be implemented in the same way as Avinor, as a separate economic and legal entity. That being said, the system needs to change, because the way it works today, we don't get enough results.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e720	Lundtigen addresses the economic imbalances in its contribution: the two-tiered Norwegian economy, the cost level, which has increased dramatically during this government, and the differences between Inland Norway and the other Norway. So he says – as far as I have noted – that it requires political effort to do something about it, and that the red-greens with their background have the best conditions to do something about it. He also says that it requires effort quickly. What does Lundtigen think can do with this in the revised budget we see, when it is so urgent? I see 100 million. kr for wood processing, strongly fragmented to a number of measures, almost as a billet for those who have been pressured here. But what else will do with the significant problems he addresses in his post, in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e727	The two-part division in Norwegian business and working life and the high cost level I would claim would be even more negative, even more serious, if the Right with its friends had been ruled. It lies in their economic policy – I must stress it as strongly as I can. When it comes to what we're doing, it's true that woodworking is an example where the Minister of Finance has been in the front to do something. I would say that the most important thing is not what is under allocations, but the most important thing is the attitude and attention that this issue now has in the government. Another thing the government does have to do with is to increase the equity requirement for those who buy dwellings, by using the Financial Supervisory Authority – that’s good. It's also being countered by the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e736	The representative Lundtigen is not as critical of the government's fiscal policy as he is of the government's agricultural policy, but at the point of investment, the jam is not far away. That's it. I was going to ask about executive wages, since the representative Lundteg felt the revised national budget was an appropriate place to take up the executive salaries of Buskerud, where they had obviously increased by 10 p.m., and called it poor leadership. Then I would like to ask back: in the companies where the state has a significant ownership or majority ownership, the management salaries have increased by 18 p.m. in the last year. What kind of leadership is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e743	Two points: I am right to have clear opinions on a number of issues, as a representative of big business and a spokesperson of fiscal policy in the Central Party. It's important to carry on. The focus of a single press is that, within a majority government, it is important to have an interaction between what is going on and what is happening within Parliament. The representative, Martin Kolberg and I, for example, have a positive, critical attitude towards what one does, and that is wise. As far as leadership is concerned, we clearly agreed on the municipality of Buskerud. Whether the state is a good or bad example: it is obvious that such state companies behave, with the leadership wage increases that are there, it is several times pointed out by the Storting Control Committee, with the government parties in the front, that we see it as very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e750	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e753	I agree with the speakers who have put the Norwegian economic situation in a slightly wider context. It may be tempting to refer from an old song: "Listen where it's storming out there. Here it is peaceful and quiet!» It is not quite quiet, but in economic terms, it must be said that the situation in Norway is remarkable. There are many reasons why, and I see no reason not to say that the government should have its share of the credit for pursuing a fiscal policy that has been good overall. It concerns the use of oil money, it is, within the framework we have, to ensure that the economy does not escalate beyond what is necessary, even though it is actually a rather expansively revised budget we are dealing with. It is also the case that I have no faith in, like the Workers' Party's Torgeir Micaelsen, that if there is a change of government, this will be taken over – in no way! The best example of this is, for example: tax policy, it is in fact the last Bondevik budget adopted that has also been governing this government. It just sounds a little different when the red-greens say it. The interaction was occupied by the representative Lundtigen. Yeah, so am I. And there is reason to use this opportunity to say something about the lack of interaction between government and greatness, and what should happen, either from a budget submitted, or a revised budget presented, from the government until a decision is taken in the Grand Duchy. In my opinion, there is a weakening of one of the most important democratic links, namely the treatment of the Great Britain, as this government is now acting. You get very good loopholes, I'd say, to fix problems you obviously see from the government has presented its proposal until we decide, but you can't do anything out of it. Let me take this simple example, which I was in the line change with the Torgeir Micaelsen. We have a school for hearing impaired people in Buskerud called Briskeby. They are, in fact, forced privatization. It was not something they wanted themselves, but they were asked for it by the government. Then they get the budget after they're treated financially under the Private School Act, and they go down considerably into grants to operate a school in a good way. This shall be submitted at the hearing. Nobody can say that there's something wrong in the calculations, and that's 2 million. NOK or SEK 3 million. kr on a budget of 1000 billion. kr. What do the government parties do? Nothing. The position of this revised budget is 422 pages, and it is not moved in one red or one green ear! So I fully agree with the representative Lundteg – there is something about the interaction that is completely out of control. This school has received a note from the red-green ones. The representative, Mikalsen, says they have to see this in a larger whole to the government budget in the fall. Three million. kr must enter a larger whole – it does not rhyme. It's a passivity and a reluctance to do something about obvious flaws that make a majority government pass on the Storting to those degrees. What's going on? Maybe you get something in the harvest, but it's the budget for this school that's going to apply from the fall and that makes the quality of an offer to vulnerable students go down. So you don't have the power to do anything about it. Our approach to the revised budget is not to re-examine all matters from A to Å from the ordinary budget, but at least to correct some of what we see should be adjusted from the time we adopted the budget in the autumn until we are due to revise it in June. Let me take some examples of what the Christian People's Party believes should be corrected: we think we have to do something on the sick home front. The red-green promised 12,000 places by 2015. The situation now is that only 1 000 new hospitals are built. And we need – and it's taken up before – more places to study. We propose this in the revised version. The government has cut the cash support for 2- to 3-year-olds. In addition, an arrangement has been made to ensure that those who expected to receive a cash payment were late to apply for a nursery place. That group, after the government's arrangement, will be without children's home and without cash support. But the government won't do anything to meet a tiny group. It doesn't cost much money at all, it doesn't roll over any government budgets. Then it's the training of faith. Here the government actually cut off in a plan that the Storting had put behind. Do you do anything about it in the revised version? No, you don't. We've had a big revolution for the Norwegian Church. Nor is anything done to help the Church actually inform its members about what has happened, and what consequences it has. So to ICT solutions in health -- obvious problems that go beyond patients. Do you do anything? No, no, no. And in the case of anti-drug measures directed by non-profit institutions, many are in line – over 4,000 – and there are many places being laid down. Do you do anything? No, you don't. Then you stand here from the red-green side and talk about housing policy and accuse the opposition that we do not agree with the Financial Supervisory Board's demand for a higher degree of ownership. Okay, we can have a discussion about that. You don't do anything with BSU either. One should expect then that red-green parties – of all – had done something about the housing supply in this country. As before, it was an important area for the red-green parts, we now see total passivity. This concerns the housing situation in this country and the many people who do not get into the housing market because of the high housing prices we have. It is alarming, I would say, to see that red-green parties show such a passivity in such an important political area as housing policy. So far, we have three investigations into antisemitism in this country. We have promoted a proposal for a representative on a plan of action to mitigate the results of anti-Semitism and to counteract what we see of new Jewish hatred. We have also added money to this in the revised version. We do not get any support for that either. We have spent money on more ethics in the oil fund. It doesn't get any support from the red-beautiful either. I have to say that the interaction between big business and government really manifests itself in the revised budget presented and in the position of over 400 pages we are dealing with today. Nothing happens from the government to present its original proposal for the decisions we take. It is not willful when hearing bodies come up with well-founded proposals for adjustments – small adjustments even. A comment is carefully considered which may contribute to something in the long term. Just let me take one example in contrast to the hearing-impaired school that I mentioned, the move of the Veterinary College from Oslo to Ås. There we get a message in four-five sections that maybe the cost would be 1.5 billion. kr more than was the premise of the Storting, in addition to a significant reduction in the space programme, so that those who are currently in today's veterinary school wonder if there is really room for them out on Ås, when it comes to it. There may be more evidence of the lack of interaction and of the way in which it is thwarted by decisions, unfortunately it also appears to be a failure. I admit happily, everyone has probably realized it: I am very disappointed with the financial committee's own consideration of the revised budget. It should be time for the red-greens too to see that the budgetary procedure has to be revitalised in this Chamber – it is the responsibility of the majority parties themselves. I'll bring that up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e797	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e802	After reading the setting of the revised carefully, it is quite clear that the Christian People's Party is by far sharing our understanding of both the crisis out there and the situation of the economy here at home. The Christian People's Party underlined the importance of following the rule of action, and then they are on the same oil money usage as the government party. The Christian People's Party is also the party that both in the budget in the fall and now has a tax arrangement that is quite close to the government party. I have respect for the Christian People's Party's internal processes in connection with the partners, but when it comes to economic policy and they override the economic divisions, I wonder how the Christian People's Party feels most at home, on the right or on the left side of Norwegian politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e810	I also have largely respect for the internal party assessments referred to by the representative, so I will deal with that. But when it comes to how we're going to look at the big picture of the economy, I'm actually going to say that the revised budget actually shows an approximation between the vast majority of parties in the view of where we stand financially. What's the challenge for the government is that many people see that we need to think differently about investment. There is nothing new in the Workers' Party either. Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, the main representative of the Labour Party on the transport side, said here – until she was ‘cut down’ by the head of government himself – that we need to think again about investments. Now, maybe we're going to have a revision at a point where we see that there are dividing lines, and it's worth noting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e817	I have read with interest the Christian People's Party's proposal to increase housing and will praise the party for focusing on social housing. At the same time, the Christian People's Party has supported the proposal for a significant increase in the BSU's maximum framework. Both are comprehensive and costly proposals and, within a sound economic policy, most of the parties in this Chamber realise that priority needs to be given to. The question is, if the Christian People's Party has to choose, will they bet on those who most need the help of society to get a place to live, or on those who need it least?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e824	If it's a contradiction, which I'm not quite sure it always is, it's clear that the Christian People's Party is engaged in a good welfare offer. To take the housing policy: we are concerned that those who come in for the first time are given an opportunity to do so. It is about strengthening the BSU, but it is also about ensuring that you have arrangements where you can rent, for example. through cooperation between the housing co-operation and the municipalities, and then you can gradually buy into the apartment you are renting. That is what we have been proposing here in Stortinget. Unfortunately, we did not get the SV's support for this. But the representative can be absolutely sure that if there are any proposals from the government – which we unfortunately have to see – that will strengthen the housing supply in this country, we will be there from the first moment. But so far it is only the opposition that has promoted that kind of proposal – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e831	The representative of the Syversen questions whether the Veterinärhögskole gets a place at Ås. I don't think it's necessary with such dramatization from a man from Oslo. There are so many demands from the Veterinary College that I also think they should have a little more accuracy in their demands in the situation that we have – a little more sparingly. When it comes to housing financing, I noticed that the representative Syversen felt a little uncomfortable about the attitudes he has now taken, and said that something had to be done about the housing supply. One of the problems here is that the role of the House Bank has been severely stripped through the EEA agreement – which I was part of when I was State Secretary in the Ministry of Local Affairs – so there is a Christian People's Party centrally located. My question concerns economic policy. The basic plan of the Christian People's Party has a strong social anchoring. Will the agility of economic policy become greater or less if the Christian People's Party departs from the red-green side?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e840	We're not going away from the red-green side, it's a side we've never been to! So it's probably a little bit difficult to move the way the representative thinks. I have to take two things. In the case of the Veterinary College, there has to be a connection between what you present to people and what's going to happen. What the government has now done is, first of all, to raise the cost of $1.5 billion, second, to disappoint everyone who thought they got proper premises at Ås. You've done both things at the same time – it's done well. So I might be a little bit more sober even when it comes to describing that situation. In terms of well-being, everyone knows that the Christian People's Party places common well-being high. We showed that in Bondevik I and Bondevik II. The representative Lundtigen can be absolutely sure that the Christian People's Party is going to have a social stamp on any project we should be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e852	In our alternative to the government's revised budget for 2012, the Left has chosen some areas where it is required that we get a more offensive and clearer course. In particular, there is a need for commitment to school, education and research, a forward-looking and innovative industrial policy, and an ambitious environmental and climate policy and a targeted poverty reduction policy. The left calls for a will to bet on the future – school, research, innovation and innovation. There is a broad political consensus that it is knowledge that we must live on in the future. The government itself admits that Norwegian teachers are still below the OECD average in the case of continuing training, yet there is not a new crown for this. The key to a good school is better and more motivated teachers. Therefore, the left wants an additional appropriation for the enhancement of skills, training and recruitment of several teachers. It is also incomprehensible to the Left that the government does not use the chance to increase the funding of universities and colleges, all the time we know that the number of applicants for higher education continues to grow. There are more than 7000 higher education applicants this year than last year. The left therefore proposes 2000 more places of study than in the government’s plans to meet the increasing candidate mass at the time of the harvest. In addition, the left proposes an overall increase in research and higher education spending of about 700 million. kr. The left is concerned about the overall environmental profile of the revised national budget. Quite rightly, some measures in the field of classical nature protection supported by the Left, but unfortunately the draft revised budget reveals that the government does not have a real willingness to invest in environmental and climate action. This is particularly strange given that the government recently presented a climate communication with ambitious objectives, but without action and direction to achieve those objectives. Quite rightly, some of this is corrected by the climate agreement here in Stortinget, but far from everything. The total therefore proposes to the Left a addition of approx. 300 million. kr for environmental and climate action on the budget of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy and 775 million. in increased appropriations for railways, bicycle paths and other public transport. One of the most important things we can do is to lift more poor children and families out of poverty. In the 2009 election campaign, the Left took the initiative of a joint commitment to combat poverty. It was all agreed in the election campaign, but when the Stortinge dealt with proposals from the Left, the government failed the parties. This was repeated when the size earlier this year dealt with the distribution notification. There were no concrete promises from the government, and the government parties voted down all of the 25 concrete proposals of the Left to overcome the growing poverty we unfortunately see among children and children's families in Norway. However, this is not a matter left. Therefore, the Left proposes to grant a total of about 1 billion. to various measures to combat poverty, in particular among children and families with children — including: several targeted actions, such as the allocation of 350 million. SEK to increase the social assistance rates by approx. 20 pst., or equivalent 1075 kr more per month for a single social welfare beneficiary. The left also proposes to allocate 75 million. kr to graded parental payment in kindergartens, so that the poorest pay less than today. And we're proposing an increase of 177 million. EUR 55 million for different drugrelated interventions. to various measures to help children and young people with writing difficulties to combat drop-outs in secondary school. The left believes that we need many more new businesses in the future if we are to ensure well-being for future generations. If we're going to do this, we're going to have to make sure that more people start on their own -- not least more women. We then have to remove all discriminatory rules and arrangements for self-employed workers. There needs to be better tax rules, better social arrangements, simpler regulation, better access to risk capital and lower start-up costs. The left therefore proposes an overall increase of 723 million in bets on small businesses and businesses. SEK and a targeted tax relief for business of about 670 million. kr. I would like to highlight in particular the proposal to strengthen the social rights of the self-employed, by granting approximately 160 million. kr for increased self-morbidity compensation. We also have several proposals in the revised national budget that I cannot reach now. Overall, the Left reprioritises about 4.5 billion. to make a targeted effort to bring children and families out of poverty and to focus on the environment, knowledge and innovation. Finally, I address the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e871	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e876	Here there was a good deal of direct and indirect criticism of the government. Therefore, I would like to hear what positive things the Left has to say about the government's economic policy in general and revised the national budget in particular. The left is a party that has long traditions as a center party that can cooperate with both sides. The left – apparently at least – is very much in common with the broad lines of economic policy. In any case, the Left puts itself on about the same oil money usage as the government. Left also writes in the setting that much goes better than they had reason to expect just one and two years ago. Despite this, the representative chooses to use a good part of his intervention on negative government policy. Now I would like to hear the representative Tende say something about what binds us together. What do we agree on, and what do we have in common in terms of economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e881	I can say very much positive about the government's policy. The most positive thing is that they relate to the same financial expenditure – the rule of action, as we call it – as what we in the Left do. Then they have a tough course – the motto to the government is a tough course. But we in the Left think it's getting a little too bumpy in that way that they don't have any willingness to give priority, and they don't have any political direction, as we see it. That is why I stressed in my speech that we need to focus a little more on knowledge, on industrial policy, on environmental policy and on more on the poor. We would like the government to be able to bring it into the next state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e886	The left talks a lot about climate, but little about the basic points about climate. I want to talk a little bit about carbon. Carbon has two main sources: oil, gas and coal or living plants. The centre party knows what to focus on, the green plants, it's the ones that are renewable. The Left proposes to phase out subsidies to forest roads and to forest planting under the Agricultural Development Fund of 60 million. kr. There are modest but important measures that correct market forces and increase forest production within – and I stress this again – a multi-use approach, where more attention is to be paid. So the party left performs to take it away. My question is: will the Left have lower growth and the highest in Norwegian forests?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e896	I have to say, as I do, that I have very much respect for Lundteg's knowledge in this area. I want to praise him for that, and that in most debates he addresses that issue – that is important. So for forest roads and granular planting, which also tends to be a matter between us. I have said, and can repeat, that I am against – and have been for a long time – the massive mining in the West, by which I, as a Westerner, have seen negative effects. The plants grow too fast. Then there are the forest roads, to which the left has also been critical, because we do not want to subsidize degradation of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e905	I thank you for your answer. I respect that both planting and forest highways involve intervention, and therefore this is now being done in such a way that one should take more into account. It is a very important piece of legislation, not least in the case of forest roads, which ensures that it is done in a sober and environmentally friendly manner. But my question was: Will the Left have a lower growth and the highest in Norwegian forests – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e914	Forests and forestry are important, also for the Left. But once again, the massive granulation and subsidisation of what happened in the West from my childhood – I was involved in it myself, I didn't quite understand what I was doing – and until today, because then afterward subsidising forest roads to extract the plants that destroy a lot of biodiversity, left is against. Actually, Lundtigen just has to accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e919	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e922	It's important that we put what we're doing into a larger context, and to the extent that we also ask ourselves the question of what it looks like around us. While Norway has low unemployment, high professional participation, and with us the economy is growing, we see countries around us in Europe struggling. Many countries have borrowed too much. In many countries the level of debt was high before the financial crisis, but large budget deficits during the recession made the situation worse. When the banking sector got into trouble, it became clear that private debt could end up as government debt. Poor economic growth has further weakened confidence, especially in the most indebted euro area countries. Powerful action has been taken by the authorities. European banks have been lent substantial amounts in the long-term and low-interest European Central Bank. Greece has got a new crisis loan, its debt has been written down. The EU crisis fund has increased its lending capacity. The measures have helped to alleviate the unrest, but the fundamental problems in the euro area have not been solved. One has to get control of growing and high government debt, one has to get economic growth up. Only this can bring down the high unemployment rate. This is not just a question of tightening up and tightening up the budget, perhaps it is primarily a question of using scarce resources to boost growth and opportunities for those who are currently out of work. There are 25 million people without a job in Europe. Worldwide, there are 200 million unemployed, 27 million more than in 2007. In Spain and Greece, youth unemployment is over 50pst. Economic growth in developed countries is too poor to increase employment in particular, and unemployment is predicted to remain high for a long time to come. This is why the situation in countries around us is about individuals and the future of these individuals. We read daily about tragedies that this creates for people, when they no longer have a job, about youths who are being excluded, youth without hope and faith in the future. It increases the risk of social unrest and riots, as we have seen examples of already. In two days' time there will be a new election in Greece. We are hoped that the election will give us an outcome that will give the country a governing government. Without a government able to address the country's fundamental economic problems, uncertainty will increase in both Greece and the euro area. In Spain, banks have been hit hard after a sharp decline in the housing and property market. It gives reason for learning too many. Last weekend, it became clear that Spain would apply to the EU for assistance to strengthen banks. Spain is thus the fourth euro area country that has had to ask for assistance. So it is that low growth in Europe creates challenges for the rest of the world and the world economy as well. The rise hoped for in the United States now seems to be further away. Much hinted at the end of last year that the labour market created new jobs and that the economy was improving. We've had bad news in the last few months. Growth seems to slow down in China, India and other emerging economies. Europe is the most important market for these economies. We see that there is a relationship between countries and economies in the global economy. This means that Norway will not be left untouched by what is happening around us. We see that interest rates on sovereign debt, which has been high for a while for the most vulnerable euro area countries, are now even higher. Countries where Spain and Italy face borrowing rates in the market that are higher than those countries can live with in the long term, as growth prospects now appear. In the United States and Japan, interest rates are still low, although debt as a share of value creation is higher in these countries than in the euro area countries. If trust were to fail in these countries too, the situation in the world’s financial markets would become chaotic. At the heart of this reality is Norway and the Norwegian economy. We have large natural resources that are important for Norway, but the history of Norway is our ability to link work and resources so that we can create progress and well-being for everyone. The labour force is our most important resource – we must never forget it. We must never lose sight of the fact that in a troubled world it is not just about creating jobs in Europe, but it is also about ensuring that Norway is able to manage so that we can maintain low unemployment and high employment. We have a good framework for economic policy, and we must maintain that. It has helped to strengthen confidence in the Norwegian economy. It has helped Norway to be seen as a country capable of coping with difficult economic challenges. In addition, there are other areas of the economy that we have to take care of. We need to further develop good regulation and supervisory arrangements in financial markets; we need to avoid getting into the situation that other countries have been in. Then we're going to carry with us the lessons of our own banking crisis, and we're going to carry lessons from what we see in the world around us. An important challenge in the Norwegian economy is wage growth. It has been higher for many years than our trading partners. In the last ten years, real wages in Norway have increased by nearly 30pst. In other countries, real wages have hardly grown at all. For Norwegian employees, real wages and salaries growth means a rise in purchasing power. For industry, the high wage growth in Norway in isolation has weakened its ability to compete. Employment costs in Norway are significantly above what our trading partners have, but the challenges have been mitigated because we have a large surplus in trade with the rest of the world. We cannot rely on the fact that we will continue to benefit from the ever-increasing price of our exports. If the crown continues to strengthen, many businesses can be hit hard. That is why the rule of action is important. It provides an anchoring for the use of oil money over the budget. Such anchorages are now more than ever important for the Norwegian economy. It contributes, as I said, to predictability and stability. We have put forward a proposal for a revised national budget, to which the Stortinget agrees, within a responsible framework that is in line with the rules of action. The use of oil money is well below the 4 pst track, and it is important that we are able to continue this for reasons of the price of the crown and the competition that Norwegian industry encounters abroad. The rules of action shall also take account of future generations. The oil wealth belongs not only to us who live today, but also to those who come after us. The rule of action takes account of future generations by requiring the use of oil money to follow the real return of the fund over time. If we go away from the rule of action so that we use more than the real return, the value of the fund will decrease, and it will be less for those who come after us. If we put on such a line, we're going to borrow from the next generation, a generation that will get a great job of paying for the increasing welfare costs that we see coming -- rather, we have to save for next generation's sake. The economic situation of many of our trading partners is fragile. There is a risk that growth may remain low for a long time in developed countries, and there is a risk that it may be subdued in China and other emerging economies. It can reduce demand and prices for parts of our exports. Further declines in growth prospects internationally may also exacerbate financial market turmoil. A fragile world economy affects, and will affect, us. Competitive enterprises are in a particularly vulnerable position. The crisis in Europe illustrates how important it is to keep order in our own house and to strengthen our confidence in our economy. Through the revised national budget, we provide the basis for continued stable economic development in the years to come. We've got a lot more, but we're going on. This way will be about economic progress, but will also be more about human progress and about people's opportunities and futures. The quality of a society cannot only be measured in money. How we feel about each other, and how we are like people and people, is at least as important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e969	The Minister of Finance describes a world full of unrest, with the danger of chaos. He points to high unemployment in many of the countries around us, and he points to great uncertainty about government bonds and the stock market. Nevertheless, in the revised budget, this government chooses to invest all additional tax revenues from the Norwegian people and from Norwegian business into this troubled market. One would think that when it storms around us, we would take better care of our money. Cambridge Systematics International had just representatives in Norway who pointed out that if an investor invested more money in the main road network in Norway, a get back NOK 3.50 for each penny an investor. It would be a safe investment, where we were not in danger of losing the values. Does the government actually think that the best thing to do if you get an extra tax credit is to invest it out in the troubled world over good Norwegian infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e978	One of the most important things about the State pension fund abroad is that it is a long-term investor. This means that you can bear the fact that it swings on the world's stock exchanges and in the world's markets. It's important that you keep that in mind. Then we've had a lot of discussions with the Progress Party lately about the relationship between investment in Norway and abroad. The Progress Party has promoted many Document 8 proposals. One Document 8 proposal is to change the rule of action, and in order to impose even more work on myself, I would suggest that the Progress Party further promote a Document 8 proposal, to change the law on the state pension fund abroad, so that it can allow money to be invested in Norway. When the Storting will deal with such a proposal, we will see whether this is a proposal on which the Progress Party is given particular encouragement, or whether it is actually such that the Progress Party is left standing alone on such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e985	When the government has today turned the rule of action into ideology, according to the chairman of the committee, I do not see that we are able to get a majority to change the government's ideology. I think, however, that among the Norwegian people, a lot of people would like to be able to drive on better roads and get a railway that worked better, rather than seeing that the money goes to cheap loans abroad. It is a small paradox that some drivers in Norway have to drive on toll-funded roads and pay interest at 6.5 p.m. when the oil fund invests abroad at 1.8 p.m. However, it is already the case that today one can invest a little of the oil money in Norway, for example. almost half a billion dollars were allocated to seed funds in the revised budget, which are not to be included in the budget balance. So one has to do it on the outside. One can use oil money to invest in SAS, but one can't invest in roads. Then one will give an answer that an issuer debt securities etc. – yes, a loan finances these investments instead of using oil money, but it is a technicality. What makes the airport a good investment, but not the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e992	First, I would like to say that I think it is good that the Progress Party now realises that there is no majority in the Stortinget to change the rule of action to open up the state pension fund abroad to invest money in Norway. That's good. But the proposal can be promoted so that you get the final test on it. In the case of seed funds – I will conclude with it – it is true that, yes, it is true that it is proposed to invest funds for seed funds in the revised national budget – 425 million. kr below the line, which is capital contributions to those funds. But there is one more thing: 227 million is invested. kr above the line to account for any losses, taking into account the proportion to be contributed by the country in relation to private investors and 3 million. to manage the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e999	The finance minister said in his speech that we cannot rely on just increasing costs in the coming years. I agree. An increasingly high cost situation in Norway contributes to a decrease in competitiveness, to a doubling of the Norwegian economy, and to an increasing dependence on oil both for jobs and for the economy. But I did not hear a single word about what the government intends to do with it, other than to have a bad course. It is a good thing to keep up the use of oil money, but it is not enough to counteract the cost growth we have experienced, because the competitiveness has been weakened every year under red-green rule. So the question is, what does the government intend to do to bring about a competitive sector transformation and dampen cost growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1009	A good development in the Norwegian economy is based on three legs. One is what we do in Stortinget through what we call financial policy. Keeping a strong fiscal stance is an important contribution to curbing the pressure on interest and thus the pressure on the krona, and if the krona goes up, competitiveness will be lower. The second leg is pay terms. Responsible settlement of income is incredibly important. Therefore, it is important that one builds on what we call the front-facing model in the future, that it is the ‘god on the gild’ that first negotiates, so that one brings it with him. When the two things work well together, the pressure is less on those who are going to set the interest rate. That's the main strategy. However, in addition to this, there are many other things that lie within the State budget: infrastructure investments, several study places – for example, we suggest. in the revised national budget to increase the number. So one has to run forward in large and also on a broad front with other measures, for which there might be a slightly different assessment. But all in all, it's important to bet on both the big and the small.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1014	The finance minister took us on a journey in the international economy, and that's a description I think the very most people in this room join. Therefore, I would like to ask a little about the interaction that the representative Lundteg and the undersigned were in. There is no move on one ear in this setting. All the government proposes, will be adopted as a dot and a dot. Now, the Minister of Finance is very mild in form, but it may indicate that he is all the harder in the gulf, in the sense that this government no longer allows the government parties any swirling in this room. When you don't even manage to attend to the offer of hearing impaired people, my question is: is all the room for action now reserved for the government parties in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1021	That's two things I'd like to say. First of all, it doesn't have to be a big surprise that a majority government gets its proposals adopted in the Storting – I've experienced it myself. I was in Stortingen during a majority government early in the 1980s. The second is that of course there is an interaction and an interaction between the red-green representatives in the Stortinget and what is happening in the government, before one submits, for example. a revised budget or a government budget, so that they have a significant influence on what becomes the final result. Then I want to say finally that I am listening to good suggestions from the opposition. I think I have an ability to take along good suggestions from the opposition, which we bring to the government's work. During the day, we discussed issues such as: a very good proposal by the representative of the Sevensen to strengthen consumer protection in the financial sector. There are good proposals that are likely to be treated very well — and even a few majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1028	I tend to get a line on that left cutter in the net pay scheme. Unfortunately, I didn't get that this year, so I thought maybe I would take the line of the finance minister. What we have said there is that it is unfair in relation to land-based travel and fishing. Econ Pöyry has said it's socio-economically unprofitable. Many claim that if Norway had stopped subsidising the net pay scheme, other countries would have done the same. Then I read in Today's Business on 13 June that there are some delays within the government because of fighting about subsidies, that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry disagree about this subsidy. Could I get any thoughts around it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1037	I believe that both the representative Tenden and the undersigned could quickly agree that in a non-profit world there should be competition on equal terms. In such a world, we should also have minimum subsidies in individual countries to promote special industries or to promote specific competitive conditions. It's not like that. There are many different reasons why countries choose to support their industries. This is also the case in shipping and within what is known as the shipping industry. What is referred to from today’s Business life about a conflict inwards is probably considerably exaggerated. These days we will send a letter to Brussels in response to an EU enquiry. I'm not going to pre-shoot it, but I think it's going to be a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1044	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1047	The representatives of the largest opposition party here at Stortinget have so far in this debate produced the government parties almost as both a bit of quirky and boring because of the rule of action. I want to say that in reality it's the exact opposite. Safe economic governance is an expression of will and visionary policy, and it is a prerequisite for social development based on security, justice and equality. The politicians who do not want to take the difficult priorities do nothing more, they get less, and they leave to later fixing the problems they have created. In addition, the bill is sent to those who have the least already. That is why the Labour Party will continue to strive to keep the economy in order and to equip itself as best we can against what is happening in Europe, while at the same time facilitating further transformation and innovation for tomorrow's businesses and jobs. At the same time, we will further develop the welfare community – and we do. This week, Stortinget has dealt with many issues and made many decisions that take Norwegian society further. We started on Monday by treating a very good climate report and a very good climate deal, such as. is about developing climate technologies, investing more heavily in urban public transport and investing more in climate-friendly construction. On Wednesday we deal with the municipal proposition. It is true that since the government change in 2005, municipalities have provided full child care coverage, employed 22,000 new year-olds in care and care, raised hundreds of schools, and we also see progress in school outcomes. Until the next year, the income of municipalities continues to increase significantly, so that development can continue, and so that municipalities, among other things. may employ all the competent young people who are now applying for teacher training. I fully agree with Mr Sanner that the teacher is the school's most important resource. Then I would like to remind you that when Røres Kristin Klemet took over the Ministry of Knowledge in 2001, she took over more teachers from Trond Giske than she herself left to Øystein Djupedal. While the Right guided the knowledge policy, 19,500 more students came to primary school. At the same time, the number of teacher’s years went down by over 1,000. After the red-green government took over, there are 8 000 more teachers employed in school. The Labour Party is very concerned about combating social differences in schools too, and therefore we will continue to spend the community's money on the community economy, teachers and the community school, not on tax cuts. We do not want to open up the large-scale privatisation project of the school that Right has been at the forefront of, and that will lead to both greater social differences and poor school performance, as demonstrated by the experience of Sweden and Denmark. As I said, it makes a difference whether we bet on welfare or rates on tax cuts. Yesterday, we adopted new large-scale investments in Defence, and also in the revised budget, action is being taken to improve the welfare community. 50 million. kr for breast cancer construction is an example of this. When the Right had a national meeting earlier in the spring, Erna Solberg spent a lot of his speaking time on the Workers' Party and on the Government, and meant among other things. that the government has more money, but that's all they have. It is a rather amazing statement in the light of the fact that the same party has now opened up to negotiate economic policy with the Progress Party. I have also noticed that when the Right is challenged on how to finance their tax cuts, the answer is to do things a little bit more modern and a little more efficient. But when it comes to the alternative budgets and the difficult priorities, the Right jumps off. We saw that, among other things. An example of yesterday when we were to gather about the future defence structure. At that time it seemed very unpleasant to take the difficult choices, because then you risk getting unfriends.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1068	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1071	The representative Pedersen has now not only turned the rule of action into ideology, but she said that the rule of action also provides security, justice and equality. It's pretty sensational. This rule of action is absolutely incredible, and it's probably being copied all over the planet, I'm going to assume. In Norway everything works according to the representative Pedersen. Well, you could say that school is struggling, and the differences are increasing. So even though the claim was that the others create differences, it's under the red-green differences in schools. 700,000 lives on different social benefits. Immigration is increasing record-breakingly, Oslo is being segregated, integration and crime statistics are struggling to show a strong increase in the number of seizures. And then there's another phenomenon, and that's that the government parties fall on polls. Does the representative, Pedersen, think it's related?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1081	I think there are quite a lot of other countries on this globe, as the representative Tybrung-Gjedde pointed out, which would actually wish that in earlier times when things went well, one had an action rule that made it possible to have a buffer even when the difficult times went in, and that one had not done like many of the right-hand sentences in other countries, prioritized tax cuts when the sun shined and everything went well. The result is that many of the same countries now have to increase taxes while leaving the job. This situation will not risk the Labour Party in Norway. Now it's about transforming for the future business life, focusing on the welfare community and at the same time preparing us for the crisis to take place in Norway too, and then we're going to have something to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1086	Listening to Helga Pedersen gives you a strong impression that the Workers' Party is training on the opposition role. The working party appears more and more as an opposition party and as a rather acid opposition party. Because here, it's primarily about throwing down on others and blaming everyone else. One of the major challenges the representative faced is the social differences in school. Then you get the impression that when the school results rise at PISA, it's Kristin Halvorsen's honor, when the social differences in school increase, it's Kristin Clemets' fault. The Labour Party and SV have been in government for seven years, and now it is time to start taking responsibility for the increased social differences in school. It doesn't just keep talking about the teacher, you have to bet on the teacher. It is the real challenge of the Workers' Party to give priority to everything but to bet on the teacher, for example. through continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1094	What Mr. Sanner is saying is completely wrong. Both I and the other representatives of the Workers' Party here have been very clear on what our priorities are, and it is also quite clear that there are still many mistakes and shortcomings in the Norwegian society that we want to correct. But I am very surprised that the right time and time again disapprove of political debate in the main hall and dislike to be asked what their options are. Let's recognize that there are still challenges in school, but let's also agree that many things are going in the right direction, and that 8,000 new teachers are a very good starting point for continuing to smooth out social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1101	The chairman of the Finance Committee started by raising the rule of action to the government's new ideological anchoring party, and I think the Labour Party's parliamentary leader was quite close to her, too. And then this is the question of investment, which most of the parties, except the Workers' Party, have seen that we have a challenge with it. I refer to an article that was in the evening post on 14 May, where it was found that ‘Sweden opens eight times more motorways than Norway’, and Professor Selberg says the following: ‘We build in a way that gives little money.’ Then the Labour Party's leading transport policy is interviewed, and she corresponds the following to the paper on whether the Workers' Party is thinking something new: ‘The working party considers that public development companies should raise loans in order to ensure and speed up road and rail development.’ That's what the government has shot down. My question is, has Helga Pedersen also shot it down after the Bjørnface's attempt to think new?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1111	I'm very happy that the Christian People's Party is one of those parties that still profess the rule of action, to say it like that. So let's now agree that when we agree on that, there's a real choice whether you want to spend the money on tax cuts or welfare, and whether we're going to spend it on operations or so-called investments. I say yes, thank you both. We need to invest – we need to invest in transportation. That's why we're now using approx. 10 B.C.E. kr more a year than the Bondevik II government did. We have invested in 8 000 new teachers and have to invest in even more in the years to come. We have invested in full child care coverage, and we have invested 1 billion. drug treatment, which is an important investment in these people. Now let's agree that the most important thing is that we take the overall priorities, and then we can always have a discussion about how we technically implement this in the best possible way. But welfare and investing in future societies are more important than tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1118	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1121	After hearing the exchanges of words here between the representative Pedersen and those who made lines, you could wonder if there's any point in making lines at all. It's autopilot on everything that's answered, no matter what it's asked. I'm going to take another little twist -- now I'm going to see if anyone recognizes what I'm about to say: ‘The time is ripe to think about the social need for infrastructure investment. [[...]] Solutions such as project finance and public-private cooperation have been highlighted as current models as an alternative to today's system in year-on-year budgeting. [[OPS]] These can be good solutions for individual projects. The disadvantage is relatively expensive funding, but much is again recognised by faster and more efficient deployment. [[...]] We also believe that the Railway Agency and the State Road Service should be given greater freedom of action to perform their tasks, as Avinor has it for aviation and Entra for government building needs. This can be done by transforming these institutions into state undertakings or wholly owned public limited liability companies. Investments must be depreciated/depreciated over their lifetime and, to the extent necessary, financed by borrowings, either through State intervention or in the market. [[...]] Norwegian railway history is interesting. The large-scale railway development from 1850 onwards was partly financed by such a model. Norway was indebted after 1847, and there were long discussions about whether it was right and sensible to raise new loans for rail purposes. One found that two and a half of the investments could be financed by loans abroad, and one and a half were granted from the State budget. And as it was said, «the Member States would not be poorer through this, but richer». The railway was to be used to build the country and to increase the country’s production income.» This was written by Matz Sandman and Sigbjørn Johnsen in a chronicle in the Evening Post in 2008. What Sandman believes today about the content of the chronicle is not known, but that the Minister of Finance takes away from his own formulations and solutions, we have repeatedly been confirmed. What was described in 2008 as an over-ripe solution is today described as irresponsible economic policy. There are two factors that make the situation different today from in 2008. The state has become considerably richer, and is lagging on the road and track considerably larger. Both of these conditions make the wise words for 2008 even more relevant today. Note that in the chronicle today's finance minister refers to the development of the railways from 1850 onwards. At that time, the Norwegian State saw it as sensible to finance most of the development abroad. The argument that was given from then on is that the state will not become poorer through this, but richer. The railway should be used to build the country and increase the country’s production income. Think it -- loan-funded infrastructure construction to increase the growth of the economy! No, it was probably in the old days that there was a wise policy. Today we're so rich that we have to save hundreds of billions every year abroad, because we're not going to create growth, we're going to become interest-raters. The real rich people live on interest rates, and while we're salting down our money in German bonds to 1.8 pst. interest, the Norwegian Municipal Bank borrows the same money back to 6.5 pst. interest rate. This money is again lent to Norwegian municipalities. Thus, there will be pressure in the economy, inflation and increased krone price if the Norwegian state funds the development of the road and the track through a state company, while the same consequences do not exist when the financing takes place via the Kommunalbanken. Understand the one who can. Interestingly, the Council of State probably spent eight of its ten minutes telling us how much Europe is struggling. Yes, Europe is struggling, that's quite right, but isn't it interesting to know that the Minister of Finance is actually Minister of Finance in Norway? In Norway, the Minister of Finance is the Minister of Finance, and therefore the Minister of Finance's task is not to describe how miserable it is anywhere else, but to solve the challenges facing Norway. The situation in Norway is not getting any better because it is even worse out there. I can also guarantee the Council of State that if the countries out there had had equivalent revenues from oil and gas to those of Norway, the situation would have looked quite different. We live on borrowed money, it's not like we have a huge wealth that we create here in Norway. We're living on borrowed money, so we need to invest our money for the future, so we can become more competitive, so we can finance the high wages we have in this country. It's responsible economic policy, not to stick to a rule of action like ideology or like what creates equality and equality, and what it did. The future must be invested in order to create growth and well-being for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1145	There is no doubt that Norway is very good. That's really remarkable, so you can connect to it. This is due to safe economic governance, and there is no reason to hide, where there has been quite wide support around the rule of action. I am one of those who agree with the committee leader that the rule of action is important, and even better it would have been to stick to its intention, that most of the oil money should have gone to growth promotion in Norway. So I think we can guarantee that when the Right comes into position, that responsibility will continue. That trust is important. But there is no doubt that the dangers are there, as we hear now. I noticed the same thing as the representative Tybring-Gjede, that most of the time the Council of State was used to describe the situation in Europe. There is no doubt that this is a major challenge, but we have also been presented through the consultation that there are challenges in Norway. The housing market is one thing, which I come back to. In the case of the two-way division of the Norwegian economy, the NHO stated directly in the hearing that they have never seen as many nutritional parts in Norway or regional parts as we now see. I think we're going to write oil prices for most, and we're going to hope that the Ministry of Finance has asked the higher powers that they have more right than the market at the moment, because you're going to write up the oil price to a level that is significantly above what's going on in the market right now, at least. We had the tax package on Tuesday, so I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it, even though I see in the lines that someone is trying to pull up the tax debate from the main budget debate last year. There will be a fiscal policy for growth. We will certainly come back to that when the budget is to be presented for the autumn, because that is when the right is taking the big debate on fiscal policy. But I think that revised in this way is remarkable, by not really taking any of the debates around the major features of the Norwegian economy. It must really mean that even if you write that you're concerned about the housing market, the two-way and everything, you're really quite satisfied. This thing about housing is very special. We have low unemployment, good growth, low interest rates, large immigration, migration from districts to cities – and we also have a low supply of new dwellings, which the representative Syversen was in. There's very little there to indicate that we're going to have a crack in the market, and there's at least as many experts who say that we're now sitting on a living bubble that can go up. The consequence of the red-green policy is that young people are being excluded from the market, and it can be done on a permanent basis. There is at least an equal risk to it, as the situation is today. Of course, we're not against equity on purchase, but we might think that much of that decision should be with the banks and the individual borrower. The only reason to see any dangers in the Norwegian housing market is the fall in the oil price. It will be quite dramatic if it comes. But there I see no connection in the rest of the red-green policy we have. We are actually pursuing a tax policy towards oil companies that suggests that we should establish oil as an industry in Norway, rather than that there is now an industry that is in the process of controlling most of the activity and activity here. We've had a great success with the oil industry. It's the one that now carries the Norwegian community, there's no doubt about it. But I ask questions about whether it makes sense to have the same strong incentives to continue the increased activity. Through the round of questions with the Ministry now in the budgetary process of revision, I have been quite startled by the total lack of good analysis of investment activity in the North Sea and of alternative developments in the fossil market. We've been asking about the evolution of shale gas in the United States. It actually reveals that the ministry has no concept of what is going on, and that is the sector that is definitely the most important for Norwegian well-being in the future. It scares me that maybe the department is also inside an oil mist. Here are many things that we will certainly come back to in the main budget for the autumn, but I had hoped that the Council of State had also used revised to discuss some of these key issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1162	This debate is about a revised budget, which shows that there are significant reasons for optimism in Norway. Therefore, it is paradoxical that it is going on with such a gloomy background as it does, where the situation in countries by country in Europe seems to be worsening. It's a reality that will also affect our space of action in the coming time, which makes it extra important that we have a strong awareness of economic policy and the leaders we're going to provide for our economy, in the coming time. The crisis that characterises Europe today stems from a global distribution crisis. Today, there is a political debate about the causes of the crisis, and it is essential to understand the crisis in order both to be able to do something about it and to prevent Norway from repeating the mistakes made by other countries. The crisis is triggered by the fact that one has allowed the differences to become too large in too many countries, and that then it has allowed growth in the economy to be maintained through a deregulated financial sector, and that people have been able to borrow what they no longer earned. One has got a combination of growing inequality and growing debt. We have a different development in Norway, and we do because we have a different policy. One can hardly stress the importance of policy and policy choices better than the current situation shows. In Norway, we have chosen a course that has led us to reduce social differences, at a time when they have increased in almost all countries around us. We met the financial crisis with increased public consumption – a deliberate policy to get the wheels going – at a time when a number of other countries chose a different and flawed recipe. We have chosen to maintain and even strengthen a model of a regulated working life, at a time when other countries have believed that the so-called flexibility and weakening of workers' rights would contribute to growth. The revised budget we are discussing today is one small part of the strategy put forward by the government parties to maintain such a trend in Norway. It doses money use in a sensible way – adapted to the economic situation we face, and the prospects we have for development in the future – but combines it with taking the necessary steps to safeguard well-being and invest in knowledge. Our challenge is to step up economic policies that ensure well-being here and now, while at the same time giving room to invest in innovation, knowledge, innovation, future business development and future jobs. One of the dangers of continued good development in Norway is the situation in the housing market, where several speakers have spoken. I am therefore surprised that the representative from the Right who had spoken before me sees so few dangers in the housing market. I am a little surprised that the right side does not seem to have any other recipe for meeting the difficult situation that many young people face when they do not enter the housing market, rather than making it easier to get a loan, which many will not be able to repay. A more responsible approach is to start work on developing new sectors in our housing market, where it will be possible to enter the housing market at a regulated price, and where it will be possible to choose to rent for periods – taking off the pressure in those parts of the housing market where those with the least will try to establish themselves. Among the joys of the budget we are discussing is the proposal for 1 000 new places of study. It's very happy to see that many people want to enter higher education. It's an investment, not just in the future of the individual, but in the future of our society. That is why it is a necessary and correct proposal. We also meet a demand – as many women around the country have made today – to grant money for breast reconstruction. I'm glad. In particular, the government maintains the policy that has been pursued throughout this period by showing that we give priority to those children in Norway who have the most difficulty, and once again strengthens the appropriations for child protection. I also take into account that the government has invested in the protection of the villa axis in Lærdal and Wefsn. It also contributes to providing this revised budget with a necessary environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1195	The representative Lysbakken spoke of the importance of the ‘dosing’ of the money’s proper policy. SV has said several times in this room that we need to reduce the rate of oil extraction, reduce people's number of flights. But in this speech he said nothing about the rule of action actually making it possible for us to use extra oil money to increase oil production, extra money to increase air traffic – by giving SAS money. But the same oil money is forbidden to use to invest, for example. in environmental technologies or in increased infrastructure development, such as railway. So we can use more oil money on the opposite side of the equation, and less on the other side of the equation. The state spends a total of 26 billion pounds of oil outside the rule of action this year on investing in oil – in fact, one is increasing by 1 billion. kr in the revised budget, without any mention of it. Is this really – according to the other policy SV trying at the same time – a sensible economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1204	As the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen has also said earlier in the debate, SV is concerned about the trends that we can get a two-way between an oil sector without brakes and a business life in mainland Norway that is facing increasingly tough conditions when they are going to compete with the rest of the world. Therefore, we need to have a discussion in the future about how to ensure that the growth of one part of our economy does not create problems for other parts of the economy. Then I believe that the Progress Party's alternative action rule – for which I believe this was a kind of sales advance – still has significant potential for preparation. It is at least unclear to me exactly what the party proposes we should be able to spend money on, and not. SV believes today's level of money use has earned us well, while we are open to discussions about how we can balance consumption between different industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1211	We heard the representative Lysbakken speak proudly of the government's historic promise to child protection. But money doesn't help when the systems don't work. The money goes to child protection bureaucracies rather than child protection. That's why the Children's Ombudsman went out yesterday and called child protection dangerous. The National Auditor gave a report yesterday with a hard-hitting judgment on child protection – and therefore the government's handling of it. This shows that red-green welfare policy does not work. When Lysbakken was the Council of State, he said that the children's protection was the most important thing. Is the Light Hill proud of its own, and the government's, efforts to help the most vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1219	Before the government came with more money to protect the child, the Right called for more money to protect the child. After the government brought more money to Child Protection, the Right says that money does not matter. I think it's one at the top – let me say – obviously random approaches to an important political field. There is a need for both money and a change in the system of child protection, and it is worth remembering – although said many times in this Chamber – that the system we have today, which, according to the representative of Hofstad Helleland, has led to too much child protection bureaucracy, was proposed by the previous government of the Right. We have repeatedly said that we are open to make changes in the organisation of child protection. That's what state councilman Inga Marte Thorkildsen and the government work with. I look forward to it – and I think it’s necessary to make changes – but it’s not like this government has created the system that the representative here criticises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1224	I noticed that the representative Lysbakken criticised the right-hand side's thoughts about changes in working life. The slide even took part in the debate by the Labour and Social Committee on labour policy. We are all aware that perhaps the most important resource we have is labour. The most important thing is to get more people into work. But then in the last few years, one has seen that there has been a huge increase in people with disabilities — not necessarily disabled, but they are becoming so. Although this increase of only five–six years has been of 60,000 people, the number of response sites for these people has decreased. So the proportion of people who get help to get back to work is reduced. The measures taken by the government have been good. There has been a job strategy for the disabled, and also now revised a proposal to test it out in regular jobs. Both measures relate to temporary employment, and in the debate last – and to some extent now – Lightbakken suggested temporary employment as well as brutalisation. How does this relate to the fact that what the government really wants to use are temporary employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1231	There is a great difference between the kind of measures we are discussing here and opening up temporary employment to become more normal in our working life. I have no faith that a general opening for more temporaryity will help those groups that have it tough, into the labour market. On the contrary, it will help to create a permanent B team, where more and more people will have to find out that they never get anything more than a temporary relationship with their job. It has a major impact on the security of individuals, and it also has major societal implications for the distribution of power. That's why I'm glad that the Christian People's Party on some major issues is not involved in the very right-wing policy of working life proposed by the other three opposition parties. I hope that we will continue to be able to discuss labour policy constructively with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1236	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1239	More than 300,000 people are at work now than when this government took over six and a half years ago. More than two-thirds of the jobs are created in the private sector under a government which, according to Mr. Børge Brende, would lead to tens of thousands of jobs '.. [[tEt]] Work is essential for the well-being of individuals, and work is essential for the well-being of society, because it is through the work we create values. Work is fundamental to everything we do, to who we are. Nothing contributes more to balance differences, to more equality and to greater integration than that people have a job to go to. Nothing contributes more to a strong and stable welfare society than to jobs for those who can work. Therefore, work is the main objective of all government. But the results are not self-evident. We have order in economic policy, good cooperation with the social partners, even distribution and high levels of professional participation. It makes us good at both creating and sharing. There's a lot of trouble around us. The whole world was shaken after Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. Financial markets almost ceased to function. The world economy has experienced the strongest setback since World War II. We were able to mitigate the fall in Norway, because we met it with action – with massive measures. The right hand parts said first that we did too much. Then they said we did too little – too late – but the measures came in time, and they were strong enough. That's how we ran Norway through the first part of the financial crisis. Now we're seeing new responses to the crisis. It has become a job crisis with increasing and sustained high unemployment throughout Europe — a sovereign debt crisis, with countries that are unable to pay. We are a small country, have an open economy and depend on what happens around us. Therefore, we follow the situation closely and are ready for action if necessary – not by maintaining unprofitable businesses, but by contributing to conversion and development, as we do today to the woodworking industry. The wood processing industry has been struggling with low profitability for a long time. Peterson Paper Moss has gone bankrupt, and Norwegian Forest has closed down its business at Follum in 2012. In the revised national budget, the Government proposes a package of measures for the woodworking industry. We will strengthen research and development activities. We want to improve industry's raw material supply. We will develop new projects, exploit new raw materials and new production methods. At the same time, we are taking long-term steps to develop new jobs. We follow up on the government's proposal to set up up up up to six new nationwide seed funds with new capital and increased risk return. In such a vulnerable situation, it is vital that we keep an order in the Norwegian economy – not spending more money than the Norwegian economy tolerates, although it is tempting because there are so many good measures. If we spend too much money, it helps to increase prices, wages and interest, and the export industry is hit – hard. That's why I have to say that we're worried when the Advance Party wants to have free slips in the use of oil money, and we're even more concerned when the Right Roses them. This shows the uncertainty about the economic policy of any government with the Progress Party and the Right. An irresponsible economic policy will affect the export industry and jeopardize jobs. The fight against unemployment can only be waged by a government that stands for stability and predictability, which pursues a coherent economic policy. Safe management is necessary to secure the workplaces. Safe governance is necessary to safeguard the Norwegian welfare society. The election next year will be precisely whether we will still have safe governance, or whether the country will follow the Right Party and the Advance Party in a political and economic experiment that we have not seen before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1272	Employment growth in Norway we are all pleased with. That government does not mention the population growth, which we have at the same time, and that there is actually a smaller proportion who are employed today than in the period they compare with – for shares may also be interesting to relate to. The government gives the impression that the rule of action is the guarantee of a good economic policy. The rule of action does not distinguish between money spent on consumption and money spent on investment. The action rule does not cover the 35-40 billion. kr used by the oil fund into state companies, or invested on a Norwegian base. That money is said to be non-inflationary in the Norwegian economy. But if a single billion of them had been transferred to road investment instead, they had created so-called inflation and increased competitive industry. How can it be that money spent on oil investments does not generate inflation, while similar money spent on road investments supposedly destroys the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1281	This government has just prioritised forward-looking investment, not least in the public sector, among other things. in education, research and transport. I have to remind you that investment in labour – i.e. in knowledge, in kindergarten and school – is actually the most important investment we make. Then the research appropriations have increased by almost 30 pst. since 2005. I have to remind the representative that we are implementing the largest massive and global investment in the development of transport systems that we have seen, by adding up to an increase in investment and road and rail costs of 100 billion. until 2020. On the other hand, I am very concerned about the kind of rule of action that the Progress Party puts up, which is going to put the use of money in the context of the development of the economy. Thus, in 2009, during the financial crisis, GDP fell by 1.6 pst. – and then we should have cut public spending, while the economy was on top, we should have increased money consumption. It would have gone completely wrong in that we had further declines, and we had received even stronger pressure in the economy when there was strong growth in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1290	There are attempts at elegant answers from a state council, but it has no connection with what the Progress Party actually suggests, so I recommend the Council of State to read the questions of the Progress Party. But I'm not surprised that you get an answer that everyone else is irresponsible if you don't do what the council says. In 2000 there was a debate between DNB's senior economist Furunes and Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, who was then Minister of Finance. Furunes believed that the Norwegian economy would tolerate the use of 10 billion. oil-colds more per year over the next 10 years – until 2010. That would increase the use of oil by 30 billion. kr. The answer from the then finance minister was that this was completely irresponsible. It would put the Norwegian economy under pressure in the economy, and it would spend the savings on our children. Now we see how much oil money was spent in 2010, you actually had increased oil money usage by 85 billion. kr – three times as much as Furunes thought was good, but as the then Minister of Finance thought was irresponsible. Was the red-green government three times as irresponsible as they should, in 2010? Then the Labour Party had the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1301	Let me first remind the representative that he himself has proposed that economic expenditure should follow the growth of the economy. It must be understood, of course, that efforts should be increased when the economy goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1306	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1312	If I can be allowed to continue the answer – the most crucial thing about the rule of action and general economic policy guidelines is that we have confidence in a system, that we have a system that the world around us, investors and others can have confidence in how we behave, and do not believe that we will suddenly spend much more money, and with it increase the risk that interest rates will increase, so that they place more money in Norwegian kroner, thus increasing the exchange rate and weakening Norwegian business. The party of progress is completely unpredictable in all these contexts. First, they were to use the oil money and label it for pensions. Then they were to construct a foreign account. Then came the financial crisis. Then one would suddenly spend less oil money than the others, and it was thought that the rule of action was no longer relevant. Then they went away from it, and now they want two rules of action. What is at all the continuity of the policy of the Progress Party, except that it is unpredictable?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1321	Can I point out obvious errors in the reasoning...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1326	No, the representative won't!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1329	I also noticed that the Council of State tried to express some concern if the Right would come into position. There I think the newspaper from 2005 gave the answer – it was that the red-green government came to the deck table. I think they're going to have a lot of trouble incorporating that. Employment in Norway is remarkable, and it is also population growth. The previous replicator has a point there. But what should also be acknowledged by the Council of State is that the vast majority of employment growth in Norway came before the financial crisis in 2008, and I believe that the Council of State has such insight into the effects that he knows that that growth came as a result of the government coming to the covered table – Right-hand covered table. Since 2008, there has been largely a growth in government employees, perhaps a balanced growth at best. My question is: does the Council of State recognise that there is both inertia in the system and that the previous government had a large share of the credit for the growth of employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1336	I record that the previous Minister of Industry from the Right said that there would be tens of thousands of jobs that would leave Norway if there was a government with the current government parties. It hasn't happened. There is a growth in employment of 300,000 and above that since this government took over, and most of that growth, two-thirds, takes place in the private sector. Then I must say that the concern that I have, that we have, and that Gundersen should have, is the interaction and cooperation with which the Right has pledged itself to the Progress Party. The Progress Party is completely unpredictable in economic policy, which I just went through. We must assume that if the Right Party and the Advance Party are to cooperate, the Advance Party must also be allowed to think a little. I think at least they themselves mean it. If we assume that, we have no clear overview of how the Norwegian economy would possibly be governed under such a government. It is the most important unforeseeable, that is the main cause of concern, and there is a cause for concern both for the Norwegian people and for Gundersen and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1343	The Council of State is a Minister of Coordination, or I like to think of it as a superminister in the sense that he has looked at all fields. That's why I want to get to grips with what the Council itself says in its statement, namely, that work is the most important resource we have. I don't want to do a line exchange in the sense that I think everything is getting a lot worse or everything was a lot better before, but I'm recording that we have a big challenge as a society by getting more and more out of sustainable social benefits instead of being able to take care of them in the workplace. As I said instead, there have been 60,000 more people with reduced working capacity only in five to six years. We need to include more. Nevertheless, the Ministry does not have figures of how long it is before a person comes into action, how many people are able to get back into work on the measures we are using, etc. In addition, there has been a real cut in the number of action sites. The measures taken have been 300 places for young people with disabilities — and now 300 places in revised settings. There are very few measures. What does the Council of State really want to do to ensure that this field becomes a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1352	I experience the question from the representative so that we fully agree on the importance of working for everyone, and the importance of full employment – and that we facilitate working life so that even those who need organized jobs can have the opportunity to participate and use their resources. That is why, first of all, there is a need for a policy that ensures that we create new jobs in the general economy, both in the private sector and in the public sector. Labour market measures targeting those temporarily out of the labour market are needed and labour market measures are needed for those in need of work organisation. I notice what is said here about the importance of multiple places – and include it in the work that we do in the field – and I know that the Minister of Labour is very concerned about the organisation of jobs, so that those in need of organisation, too, will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1361	In most articles by the government parties in this debate, tax has been mentioned so far, including in this article. An attempt is being made to draw a picture that there must be either tax relief or good measures over the state budget — either black or white — and that tax relief is identical to collapse in the economy, as we see in some countries around us. It's not that simple, and the Council of State knows that has been a finance minister in the past. We all remember that during his time as Minister of Finance in 2001, the Labour Party went to the elections on significant tax credits – several billion dollars. So my question is: I therefore assume that the Council of State agrees with the Left that it is the arrangement and the long-term effect of fiscal policy that is most important, and not whether one year leads to increased or reduced tax revenue by one billion or two, as it tries to create an unsound picture of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1368	I didn't say that tax lights mean collapse in the economy. But there's two important issues we're facing here. One is that we are faced with choices: if you choose to use the money for tax relief, you cannot use the same money for welfare. This was one of the worrying things we saw under the previous government, that they chose to spend money on tax laws, such as tax laws. could have been used in the local government sector. And when you didn't have access to that money, there were several times worse for the municipalities than it would otherwise have to be. What can lead to collapse is if you do not see this context – you are facing a choice – if you think that it is both possible to provide tax relief and at the same time to strengthen well-being. Unfortunately, we have seen that some of the countries that now have significant problems have believed that taxes could be reduced and, at the same time, welfare increased. Unfortunately, this leads in some cases to collapse, because it weakens the whole basis of overall economic governance. In that context, I'd like to warn you the most strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1377	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1380	It's going very well in the Norwegian economy. We have, as many have experienced, low unemployment and high employment in Norway. When we compare ourselves with countries around us, we live in a different reality than very many of our European neighbours, who are struggling with both high government debt and high private debt after the financial crisis in 2008. We read in the media or watch TV sad and often heartbreaking fates in the wake of record unemployment. In the last report from Greece that I saw, it was reported that parents placed their children in SOS children's cities to get food and school. This is a reality we have difficulty taking over in Norway — as rich as we are right now. But we're vulnerable here too. Most of the goods we export go to other European countries, where purchasing power among people is severely weakened, which of course also affects demand for Norwegian goods. The focus of economic policy must be on the export-oriented industries. We must not contribute to even higher costs and an even stronger crown, and we are not doing so through the revised national budget that we are dealing with today. It is not that the situation in Norway is only due to the fact that we have oil — or luck, as some have previously claimed. We learned something from the banking crisis in the 1990s. We have a solid framework and supervision around our financial institutions, which was crucial even during the 2008 financial crisis. This is important to ensure and further develop. On Wednesday, the entire Committee was in agreement with the view of the role of the Financial Supervisory Authority in consumer protection. It is also important to respect supervisory action in this area. In a situation of lack of housing and low interest rates, higher equity requirements are imposed on the purchase of owner-occupied dwellings. This is a measure to prevent people from becoming indebted if interest rates rise and housing prices fall. I was therefore, like many others, amazed at the opposition's position on this issue. We will not solve the lack of housing in the press areas by overseeing the Financial Supervisory Authority, which will protect both loan customers and safeguard the financial stability of our country. There are major challenges in the Norwegian woodworking industry. In order to facilitate the situation, an additional allocation of 100 million is proposed. kr to this industry, which I am very satisfied with. There is a great need for conversion in the wood processing industry, while there is a great need for more local wood. First of all, I want to focus on the last one, because this is a problem that is most relevant to Trøndelag, where I come from and that I therefore know well. When there was a red-green majority in 2005, forest policy was at a very low level. There was no more money in the forest fund, and logging and planting had stopped completely. Now the activity is about to recover, but the lack of forest roads, quays and ropes has made it very difficult to take out forests that are inaccessible to the coast of central Norway. Getting access to local services will provide savings and strengthen this important industry in my country. Today, large quantities of wood are imported from other countries, among others. from England and Ireland. It should be completely unnecessary in an area with a lot of mature forest. That's why the 50 million for this purpose is so important. Together with the measures announced in the Agriculture Communication, there is optimism in the forest industry in Central Norway. In addition to the measures outlined in the supplementary appropriations, incentives are needed to increase the number of small forest owners to cover the most mature forest. Innovation and innovation are the second key for an industry that is in the middle of a transition phase. So I'm glad it's 50 million. kr for such measures. The wood processing package is a recognition of this important industry. It was also gratifying that there was a new seed capital. This is also important for new activities in the just timber processing industry. In the end, I want to express my joy in being able to live in a country with as many opportunities as we have in Norway. We have to take care of it with safe economic governance. Economic experimentation is not what we need now, if Norway is to continue to be a country that is completely different from all other countries in Europe and the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1400	Although parts of Europe persist, there is much to be found in the Norwegian economy. This is largely due to the value creation of the oil industry. We have economic freedom of action, but we must never forget that the value creation in the oil sector would not have been possible without large investments. Hardly anyone can predict which parts of business will become most important in 50 years. What we know, on the other hand, is that infrastructure and transport will be a prerequisite for value creation and export. Norway should invest far more than we do today. Cambridge Systematics, located in the real world, recently produced an estimate showing that Norway will be able to get three and a half dollars again for each krona invested in better highways. The message was clear to political Norway: you think old-fashioned, out of date and too small. You are completely out of balance between what is important locally and what is important to Norway. It is not the Progress Party that describes the red-green government as old-fashioned, conservative and out-of-date, but the message is definitely something that political Norway should take on. In the proposal for a revised national budget of the Progress Party, we propose a total of 600 million. kr more than the government for national road investment. This money should primarily go to the midpoints of the national road network on the most vulnerable accident routes. In this way, on some sections, we can prevent 70-80 pst. of the fatal accidents — an investment in both countries and people enhancing road safety. Some people actually have to take this seriously. The Progress Party, together with the Right, wants to strengthen the State's 5-million shipping disaster commission. kr. The Party primarily wants these funds to be used for the investigation of road accidents. That's where most accidents and deaths happen. Norwegian roads are among the most badly maintained in Europe. The State Road Service's investigation shows that 400 to 500 billion are needed. kr in order to establish an approximation of the normal standard. The revised budget can never be the place to take such a large amount, but something can be done here as well, and there is no lack of capacity. That's why we're using 1.16 billion. kr extra for maintenance on the highways. The progress is also going to be of 1 billion. extra kr for maintenance on the county road network. It will lead to better road safety, less damage and better accessibility. The Progress Party also supports a revised proposal of 235 million. kr extra for operation and investments in rail. Among other things, the capacity of Ofotban needs to be increased and expanded. It is incomprehensible to most people that today’s government lends money to motorway construction in Germany to 1.8 pst. interest, when the interest rate on Norwegian road projects is calculated at 6,5 pst. Norway promotes, in other words, the competitiveness of other countries, while undermining our own. The reason is that today’s government has not taken on board or understood that the prerequisites for value creation, jobs and a modern society are that the foundation is in place – infrastructure and efficient, safe and modern roads and railways. Today, we find that countries such as Botswana and Albania have far more efficient and safe roads than the world’s richest country, Norway. In Norway, it is not primarily the state that builds anything. The split layers we're still hearing about are often of such a nature that the government pays 1 billion. kr or 2 brd. kr and the driver 10 brd. kr. Ryfast did not cost the state $1, but the driver had to pay almost $10. Norway can afford and should develop a modern infrastructure, which is perhaps the best investment we can make as a country for the future. These ambitions are lacking in the revised budget, as in the ordinary budgets. It was not the Progress Party that previously described the red-green government as old-fashioned, conservative and out-of-date, but better and more precise it can hardly be said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1415	It has been interesting to sit on the Financial Committee. We see the backbone in Europe, where there are major problems with the debt crisis, while the big challenge in the revised budget is really to reduce public spending and spend less money than the rule of action. The right agrees with that approach and actually uses even a little less oil money in the context of the revised budget. We have just had a large wage settlement in private and public terms, which has been remarkably good for employees, but not for Norway's competitiveness vis-a-vis other countries probably, which, in combination with a relatively high tax and productivity level and a fall in productivity, allows us to get bigger challenges for Norwegian business than we really like to be aware of. The state took in last year's $1,200 billion. kr in taxes and charges. Much of that, of course, is due to VAT and increases in activity. But in the Right we believe that also in the revised budget we could do some action to make some of the framework conditions better for business. The right has, among other things: called for the removal of the inheritance tax in the context of the revised State budget. It helps to strengthen Norwegian ownership, and it is not least to strengthen district work – rather than being bought up by buying-in funds, foreign owners. The inheritance fee contributes to the fact that sons and daughters who are to take over the family companies have to pay a fee to the State in order to be allowed to continue operating the same enterprise. It's pointless, in the view of the Right. It's another duality that has emerged. It's a CO2 tax on already-needed industry. This is something that the Minister of Finance should clean up, in the context of the State budget, and at least in the context of the revised budget, and even more so in the context of the operationalisation of the climate agreement. There are around 40–50 – perhaps 60 – enterprises that are subject to a CO2 tax, in addition to being subject to a quota obligation, and some of them also have to pay for the allowances, they do not have free allowances. It wants to do something about it, that's to remove the allowance charge. It is a unanimous increase – and really the government as well – that says that we should not have dual use of instruments, which leads to the wrong allocation of resources. We have two proposals that we are promoting with the other parties. One is that, in the context of the revised budget, the government is notifying of a quite significant change in the system of professional indemnity insurance. It has, of course, helped to support the right in the form of an annotation. It is an important work in progress to make it more timely and will lead to more non-discrimination and significant simplifications. What we see from the opposition is that it's obvious that the government hasn't done enough preliminary work, because it's quite a resistance to what's so far the status here. For this reason, the Right Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has a very large comment, while the Advance Party has a similar comment on the same area. We believe that there would be a great strength if the occupational injury reform had the widest possible connection among the parties who are to benefit from it and pay it, but also that it has the widest possible anchor in Stortinget. So the Right has registered that in the five-six last pages of the state budget, the government takes out something that both the Right, Left and Advance Party comment on in the comments. This applies to reversed VAT. It's quite obvious that it's worked in two ways in Sweden. One is that black work has suffered a very large reduction, while the state's revenues and VAT from the construction industry have increased. It has benefited the large, responsible companies. The government dismisses VAT by saying that it is a bad solution, and it is said that it can lead to more bureaucracy in business. Of course we believe that, but here it has to be balanced. We think it is a pity that the government chooses such an easy way to dismiss the reversal of VAT, as in some aspects of the revised state budget, instead of inviting the Stortinge to take this discussion, in order to increase the income of the state and increase the seriousness of Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1438	I believe in democracy. I believe that the great driving force of democracy is the public debate. I believe that the public debate will be able to find better solutions. I believe that in the change of public opinion, it is possible to develop political positions by breaking opinions to become wiser. The policy of this majority government is to create a budget, and then you start consultations on what you think about that budget, but fewer and fewer are coming, because there is nothing to change. Suffering if it is exposed to public debate, seas if people can actually break their minds on whether the devices are right, this government is always right, no matter what everyone else thinks. I believe that the democracy we have works best in open debates and when one has the ability to take over the public debate and that democracy and Parliament have also worked in relation to it. It was a purely parliamentary leader-comment. So to two of the main points that I miss in the government's arrangement, which is in the Left Option. Fighting poverty is not an easy thing to do, either with a pen stroke or by making sure you get to the goal of the tools you have. But I think it is frustrating to be in a party leader debate on TV, where members of the government parties speak loudly about how much good has been done for the fight for poverty, that something has been done about social aid rates, when we know that today it is only the Left who votes for what we think must be done: a promise for the poorest and the most vulnerable. Yes, seams in relation to the world's poor are not able to achieve the goals you've really set. The Soria Moria Declaration states that appropriations for development are to be kept above 1 pst. The government is unable to cope with this revised budget. Now we've gone under 1 pst. on aid, so that the poorest in the world are no longer so important when one has decided in the closed spaces of the government for what is important — then poverty, neither in Norway nor abroad, is not important. So to knowledge. What we see now is a government running several reforms in school. They all have almost one characteristic – that's that they're underfunded. The last thing now is the electoral reform. We see that it's going to lead to an occupation of unskilled. It is now unclear how this will be implemented. The only thing that's clear is there's no money to implement it. Especially the small schools are going to have major problems in the future. Then it's the will for knowledge, the will to reach a better future, both in primary, secondary and university and research. I think the government reveals itself to be seafaring when they see that they get a savings via foreign exchange rates of 170 million. For research, there would have been a unique opportunity to raise research in Norway with that money. But they disappear into the black box of the Minister of Finance, and you can't get the promise that you should have. In summary, this is perhaps the luckiest government in the world. This is the government that could really have prioritised, so that Norway could be on the offensive on the day Europe and the world economy rise again. We could bet on research and knowledge. We could bet on the development of a business that could be the top ready to compete in the world we know comes sometime. But instead, you save on research. It is under-funded by the school, and it is ensured that the weakest do not have anything to go after. That's very opposite of what Left prioritizes in its option. In us, it's knowledge, business for the future, and fighting poverty that's some of the headlines to target.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1456	Unfortunately, I would say, the representative Skei Grande's posts were again marked by what I would call political irony. I do not think that is necessary in many ways in a serious political debate related to very important issues. What she says is in very strong contradiction to what has been written in the statement, that the Left ‘notes that the overall impression of the government’s proposal for the revised national budget 2012 is in no way a crisis for the country’. She also pointed out to the hearings that have been held, that is quite right, that there is a complete consensus – from all over Norway – that economic policy has been sensible, it has been right, and it has created a very good development. The left writes that there is more that has gone well than there could be reason to wait. I didn't really intend to address this, but I ask, is it ironic, or is it such that the Left actually supports government policy in these fundamental areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1469	I'm talking about poverty and knowledge. The representative of Kolberg thinks it's irony when you talk about poverty and knowledge, but for the Left, it's not irony. For the left, it's actually something of the most important thing to bet on. It's possible that the representative of Kolberg thinks it's ironic that someone is talking about poverty and knowledge, but I'm still going to keep talking about poverty and knowledge. Much of what we have done in terms of the economic situation has been widely agreed – there is no criticism of the Left. The left's criticism of the government is about not having used the space for action to think in the future, not having used the space for action to build the things we're going to live on in the future. When they made the big packages, there was no commitment to research and knowledge, to make the students better qualified, to do something about the school, and to bet on the new, growing business that came – no, windows and other snacks in the municipalities were the important steps. The big economic framework we can agree on – that is the device we disagree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1478	One of the main reasons why Norway is doing as well — we can say with great humility — is that a policy has been put in place to reduce disparities, focusing on redistribution and focus on growth and investment at times when things have been bad, and a responsible economic policy. In the current political situation, the left chooses to ally with the right side, where the focus on decreasing differences is toned down. When the Left itself put in government, the differences increased. In other words, an economic policy in which tax incentives to business are given priority over redistribution. Doesn't Left recognize that this is a break with the main line in the Nordic model?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1492	I notice that SV thinks it is important to fight wealth. I notice that SV is satisfied with his struggle to combat wealth. I notice that they have run a department, the Ministry of Knowledge, for seven years – and the differences have only increased. Yesterday we got figures that show that the differences in Norwegian school just increase. The differences SV should have cared about and actually fought when they're in power are the differences within Norwegian school. The differences they should have cared about, too, are helping the weakest rather than fighting the richest. We believe that it is important to bet on poverty reduction. We think it's important to bet on knowledge. We believe it is important that all the kids get the start they should have had in life – with a good school and with wise, good teachers. It is truly poverty reduction and cohesion. This has been the case for the Left for almost 130 years. We're going to fight for these equations further as well. It is not SV that has made the Nordic model – there probably left has a larger share than the SV has had in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1501	In the revised national budget, the government proposes — and gets implemented — that there should be 1 000 new places of study, of which 300 in the engineering study. In view of the fact that there is a revision of the budget, there is a strong commitment. I think it's strong that the Left doesn't talk about it more in a sober way. Otherwise, it is commendable that the Left is concerned with poverty, but what is crucial, and which is really the Nordic, is the universal arrangements that guarantee the emancipation. Government parties have focused in their attitude on the three major divisions, namely the geographical distribution of the business sector, the competitiveness of the business and the labour market. The question is: Does the Left agree with the three main challenges I have now referred to? It is the most important thing to ensure agility in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1510	First to study places: I'm glad the government will meet the Left half. While we added 2,000 new study places to our alternative state budget, the government is now proposing a 1 000 in the revised budget. This is about not being able to take over the wave of students that is coming. This government is able to present it as a problem that many young people in the future will want more knowledge. That should be a great opportunity. Then you should have built these places much earlier, so that you are ready to accept the student wave that is coming – that we have quality and proper study places to offer them, and that we are able to build this up in the areas we know that we will need it further in the future. Then we believe that the most important way to develop business is what we do through our tax system – by facilitating innovation and facilitating creativity – and also what we do through our research policy and innovation policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1520	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1523	The renowned newspaper The Economist asked last year 800 leading experts and administrators how they believed 24 different scenarios would affect the global economy. There was only one scenario that was considered positive and likely, and that is that the Internet and social media are a catalyst for rapid political and economic change. The pace of the digital revolution we are experiencing is, according to researchers, much faster than the pace of the industrial revolution. The government therefore pursues offensive policies to exploit the benefits of digitisation, to the benefit of citizens, businesses and the public sector. Yesterday, I was in this room discussing lKT-hazards, i.e. what can go wrong. But the big picture is that we have made a number of ICT investments we can be proud of. Only in the last week have both Nav and the Food Authority received international recognition for their solutions. For example, the majority of pension applications are now submitted and processed digitally. The duration of treatment is too many reduced from months to minutes. The automatic free card solution has freed up a lot of public working time and simplified everyday life for the population. Altin had some challenges for a few days in winter, but has been primarily a major success and is enormously important as simplification measures for business. Electronic prescription saves time and money and it is now being rolled out throughout the country, but not least ensures the quality of medicine when prescribed. In April, the government presented the digitisation programme. The programme describes how we will complete the management process and ensure that Norway is on the international front. Digital communication has to be the general rule, and we're changing laws and regulations to facilitate it. For business, VAT reporting is an example of just that. We further develop the common solutions, including: Electronic ID, and we are getting new solutions for, among other things. contact information and message box, which can be used across sectors. Combined with joint work, important work will take place in each sector. Nav is in front of the largest ICT-driven modernisation in Norwegian business ever. The Minister of Health will present his own big message on ICT in the health sector. The tax base and the Loan Fund will be based on their strong positions as leading ICT companies in the state – the examples are many more. We are working to enable municipalities to coordinate and participate in the work that the state is now doing. Public sector digitisation is important in itself. We save money, and it creates a simpler everyday life for people and businesses, who are waiting for online solutions in other areas. But ambitious public digitisation policies also give business a competitive advantage, because they can then be early off internationally with new ways of solving tasks. Norway has the best assumptions to achieve this. Most Nordics are digitally mature and have confidence in the use of new technologies. Being online is primarily an advantage for individuals, because the Internet is increasingly becoming the key to social and economic life. But in addition, it makes Norway an attractive country for businesses that will be far-reaching in replacing old offers with new digital ones, just as the administration is doing. During the year, I will present a strategy on how Norway can facilitate ICT to stimulate value creation in Norway — Norway’s digital agenda. It will contain some of the basic elements that must then be in place: broadband, competence, research and digital participation. It will also point to some individual areas facing a digital revolution and how government policies can contribute to a development that benefits society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1543	Today, country and health enterprises have to pay 25 pst. VAT when purchasing services from private individuals. It has resulted in more expensive state services. This means a distortion of competition for individuals who want to make an offer. It must, of course, be contrary to all public simplification logic – including for the State, for which this Council of State is responsible – when it is seen that the system of neutral VAT for state and health enterprises, as proposed by the Right, has been introduced in the counties and municipalities, but, as far as the State is concerned, the government has chosen to stop it for some reason. A good example of this is the healthcare company that now builds its own laundry simply because it is more expensive to buy from private people – not because it gets cheaper, but because they release 25 pst. VAT. For society as a whole, this means wasting funds when the services could have been done differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1550	I did not register what question Kambe wanted to ask, but the government has no plans to make changes to the VAT system. The fact that health businesses want to operate, for example: laundry services on their own may have many advantages for health businesses. I expect that the assessments carried out in health businesses will be made because they want to have control of the production of health businesses related to their activities. Otherwise, the Minister of Finance is present here and can certainly respond more fully to the VAT problem raised by Mr Kambe on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1557	Governments took up ICT and some of the prices they have received, and that is probably deserved. At the same time, it is clear that some of us are involved in public activities and also see some challenges, not least in the health sector. From my own state and that region is the merger that has taken place between the hospitals, not very complete until you can talk to each other on an ICT platform that works for everyone. My question to the Council of State is: What has the Ministry and the Council of State, which have overall responsibility for ICT betting, identified from their point of view as the main challenges in the sectors, and what will the government do about it in the event?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1564	There is no doubt that we have many ICT systems in Norway that do not talk to each other. This is because many ICT systems are built by individual institutions. Many of them have worked very well, but the challenge has been that you can't get ICT systems based on a common core wall, common components. Therefore, the government has adopted common architecture principles and standards to be used when developing new ICT systems. Unfortunately, it is not that even if we make decisions in government or enlargement, the existing ICT systems will change. It will be a great job to replace all the ICT systems. But when they are based on the common standards to which we are now adding, interaction and coordination between the different systems will be considerably easier. It's important for us to have systems that we can use across, between health companies and between other parts of the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1571	I want to follow up on what the previous questioner asked about, but then inside Nav. There we have now seen in the National Audit Office's report that it's going forward, but that it's a job to do, especially in relation to the fact that state and local government don't talk. This means that it takes a lot longer for all those involved, an increase in bureaucracy, and not least for users. How does the Council of State think about this? What time will these systems communicate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1578	There is a major development work on Nav's ICT systems. As I said in my post, it will probably be the largest ICT project that has been carried out in some organisation in Norway, as far as we know. It is a comprehensive work that is now on quality assurance in the Ministry of Finance, so that we are as sure as possible that we make the right choices in relation to it. It will take years before an ICT system, with all its parts, is established in Nav and can also be linked with 429 Norwegian municipalities. But we have taken a step from the government, where we have contributed funding so that Norwegian municipalities can also more closely coordinate and become an attractive interaction partner, so that the systems in the municipality and state can be more interconnected. But Nav has one of the most modern ICT systems through the pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1585	The Left and the Labour Party are united in the view that the most important thing we can do to combat poverty and balance differences is that as much as possible is able to be self-held by participation in the labour market. However, it is a major challenge to facilitate the participation of people with disabilities in the labour market. Here the public has an extra responsibility to go ahead and be a good example. As a kind of government council responsible for the public sector, the Council of State has instruments that can be used more actively for the benefit of others, such as: trainee arrangements for disabled persons. The left has proposed 100 additional such trainee places in the revised national budget. I expect that it will be voted down during the day, but is there anything the Council of State would like to include in further budgetary conferences?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1592	The Trainee scheme for disabled people that we have established in the state is a good tool. There, we use unpaid wages available in existing businesses, and there is a constant opportunity to do so. The trainee system is a success. It provides disabled workers with useful work experience and practice in order to be an attractive worker to pursue. Equally important, I think the training that employers get to provide for the disabled has been. Finding that it is not as demanding as what you might have thought in advance is an equally important part of the whole job. We use funds to contribute both to the organisation and not least to motivating employees, but also to bringing together employers and contributing to a useful transfer of experience, so that it can become a natural part of the recruitment process for public enterprises. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1600	Then he is the last representative of Laila Marie Reiertsen. In the light of future line changes, the President can inform that, when there are five lines, and one assumes that all four opposition parties are asking for a line, the Progress Party will be given two lines. Then it is possible to immediately ask for both lines, so that one will have the opportunity to follow up the previous line immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1605	The council said it'll take time to get the systems to talk, and it's a terrible search for all the parties. But if it had been a lease, the government would have considered it easier, for example. in Nav, which today has a two-part rental? It has municipal rentals, often also state and municipal, and some only have government rentals. Would the Council of State have thought of it as easier to get these systems to talk?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1610	There is no doubt that dual management in Nav can be challenging, but I think developing ICT systems for the Nav district, which will also be associated with the underlying municipalities, will be a challenge regardless of how the Nav management systems are. The most important thing in this area, I think, is that the municipalities use the established standards, use open programmes that can interact, and that suppliers are told how the state thinks. That, I think, will make it possible for those who develop different types of data solutions for municipalities to do so in the products offered to the local government sector. I believe that putting these standards into place, and that the municipalities are taking a joint approach to managing their ICT development, is one of the most important things in order to establish a good relationship between the state and the municipality in Nav's development of ICT systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1617	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1620	Some try to make it clear that Norway has so far managed well through the financial and debt crisis, which is only fortunate, that Norway is lucky enough to have oil and gas resources, and that thanks to these resources and the high oil price, Norway is doing so well compared to other countries. Understood: it's the same thing who sits in government and controls the country, the result would have been the same, politics has nothing to say. This is a gross misstatement. Norway is going well. We are lucky to have oil and gas resources – but the results are not self-evident. It does not matter which parties govern the country, either in relation to the good economic development of the country or in relation to social development in general. Both the good results and the welfare state we know today are the result of political choices and priorities and safe economic governance of the country. The establishment of State pension funds abroad is an example of such a political choice and priority. Until the mid-1990s, revenue from the oil industry was used on an ongoing basis over government budgets. However, in order to ensure a balance in the economy, it was recognised that it was important to limit the use of oil money. The SPU was created to ensure that we not only use oil revenues in the short term in each year’s budget, but also save some of the revenue for future generations – and for the sake of competitive industry – a political choice that is widely agreed on, with the exception of the Progress Party. The introduction of the rule of action is another example of a political choice. The action rule was introduced to balance fluctuations in the economy, in order to ensure good capacity utilisation and low unemployment. Petroleum revenues are phased into the economy gradually, a phase-in phase in line with the expected real return of the petroleum fund, a political choice of which there is a high degree of agreement, with the exception of the Progress Party. Development of the Norwegian welfare society, the Norwegian model, with a strong state and public services paid by the community, and good cooperation between the social partners and the state is yet another example of many political choices made on the basis of political priorities and ideology, political choices on which there is no consensus between the parties. If we look at the years that have passed since the SPU was established and the rule of action was adopted, this policy has given us an investment fund of more than 3 300 billion. kr by the turn of the year, good income to the state fund for building the welfare society as we know it today, for saving to future generations, and it has given us the opportunity to put in place massive measures against the financial crisis. The political choices made have served the country well. Anyone who wants to see it also sees that Norway is doing well, better than in almost all other countries. Gross domestic product has now grown in nine consecutive quarters. Employment is increasing. By the end of 2011, there were more than 300000 more persons employed than by the end of 2005. Unemployment is low, both internationally and historically. This does not mean that there are no challenges left to solve here in the country. We see the need for social democratic policies in the future to continue and develop the welfare society we have. We are in the process of doing that, and we are prepared to do that even after the 2013 elections. The right parties will change today's society. They want a completely different direction of society, they say – both Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg – and they say they want to rule together. But they're not clear in which direction to go, as the government is. However, the right parties, too, will make their political choices and priorities if they are to rule together, because I assume that they have the goal of shaping social development together, as today's government does, and not just manage it with oil money or bet on luck. Examples of what they want are finding out about all the things we're dealing with here in Stortinget. What's worth noting is that the political choices of the right parties are different and crack in different directions, despite their emphasis on talking to each other. In the vote on the revised national budget, the Progress Party highlights its proposal for an alternative rule of action, what they call an anchor for economic policy. They believe it will allow some of the 3500 billion of the oil fund to be disposed of. crowns more pragmatically, as they say in the setting. The right says they support today's rule of action, and that it is not appropriate to change it. What they come together, nobody knows. However, it contributes to considerable uncertainty about economic policy. The same is true in municipal policy. This week we've been dealing with the municipal proposition. The Progress Party proposes to phase out the framework funding system, while the Right will maintain this system. It should be a concern of the Municipality of Norway that the policy of these parties is so big that it will govern together and that it will agree on the political priorities. Those who say that politics is not important, that Norway's good results are a result of luck and beyond government control, suggest that the issues I have mentioned here are examples of political choices that will lead to a different social development. The progress party's alternative economic policy will give rise to a different economic development, which the SSB says has not been tested before, and which is therefore uncertain.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1650	We're part of a world that's on its way out of an industrial community and into a knowledge society, a world that connects countries ever closer together, but that also strengthens competition between them, a world that has several strong nations that fight to be at the top when it comes to development, technology and competence. Inge Jan Henjesand from Abelia said: ‘China and India are busy. They have at least as great ambitions as us in the global knowledge economy, and they are many more than us." We're much more busy than we're aware of. We in Norway can never compete with countries like China and India when it comes to price and quantity – but we can compete when it comes to quality. But if we are to be able to assert ourselves in the international competition for knowledge in the future, we must bet on the support of this society, the technological competence we possess. We are missing 16 000 engineers in Norway today, which will be bigger. There are too few who choose engineering education, and the decline in education is far too high. This challenge is the time for the government to take on board. Several colleges around the country have done so. They've taken responsibility, they've taken hold. Several training institutions in Norway have introduced an advanced course in engineering training. Much more students have been given the opportunity to qualify for just engineering training. This offer had to be financed by the educational institutions themselves. We in the Progress Party believe that it is time for the state to take its share of responsibility and to be involved in this funding. If we are serious about investing in engineering training, you must be willing to do something more than talk about it. Targeted financial support for the forward courses is an important priority of the Progress Party, while increasing the number of study places in both the real science and technology fields. It's not just in the engineering training we have to bet. We are in a situation where the rest cut has become a little too comfortable for the government, in a situation where we see a great investment need across the UH sector. And no – it is not monopoly money that we in the Progress Party have chosen to spend on this, it is clearly about priorities. The government thinks it makes sense to spend several billion dollars on moving the Veterinary Academy from Oslo to Ås, instead of spending less than half of the sum on building a new building here in Oslo. It must be one of the strangest forms of district policy I've ever witnessed. I don't know how long the state councils have lived in Oslo, and whether this has shaped their perception of what is good district policy, but in my view, spending 4 billion is. kr to move a construction four miles outside Oslo not what will be a salutary for District Norway. 1 billion. Nor do they bear witness to a poor priority, where the symbols go ahead of both reason and results. Then it is much better to invest the government’s ‘billion per mile’ of money in construction and infrastructure in the higher education sector across the country, for example. Universitetsaulaen in Bergen, Technology Building in Trondheim or additional construction investments at the University of Tromsø. If we are to be able to get good students, we must have good students – students who have been equipped with the necessary basic knowledge and competence from 1st grade. We know that if we're going to have good learning in school, we also have to have a good environment to learn. The number of children who are subjected to violence, assault, harassment and abuse in school is as high today as it was when the government joined and when the Minister of Knowledge declared war on bullying. Little has been done, but a priority that has been a step in the right direction — albeit small — is that the Children’s Ombudsman has been given a mandate to deal with and follow up on bullying and the prevention of bullying. That is why the Progress Party has chosen to double the support for this work in our alternative budget. Finally, it is important to mention that all parties in this room have participated in and supported the church settlement. It is strange then that an important part of this agreement, namely the reform of faith training, is as under-priority and under-funded as it is. In order for the Church to have the opportunity to follow up the intentions of this reform, the role of the Church in its implementation must be strengthened, and one must increase the appropriations so that this is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1677	I believe that this debate very clearly shows two things: one is that there is a very broad uprising in the Great Britain about the economic policy of the government. We hear from the opposition that they think it is very good in Norway — as they say when they are going to formulate this. The second thing we can say is that there is no overall criticism on the part of the opposition, and that of course they are very far away from presenting an overall, clear alternative to the policy that the government is pursuing. These things can be established as we approach the end of this debate gradually. I hear a subtitle in this debate – and have heard it in the economic change for a long time – namely that they say that the reason why it is so good is that we have been so lucky, and in addition, there should be a lack of political success, as much income as the government has had. Yes, it is true that in Norway we have been lucky in many ways, and that the revenues have been large. But there is probably no one who seriously tries to claim that without strong political governance, with a view to good distribution and putting the whole country into use, we would have managed to get these financial results. Large revenues will not help if these revenues are not managed. That's what it's really about. The subtitle in addition to this is that I heard the representative Solvik-Olsen – which I now notice is not present, it may now be so – say in his post that we have to use the oil money wisely. He has a theory of the use of the rule of action that is undocumentable. If we look at the policy of the Progress Party in the field for many years – but also in the coming years – it is an over-exploitation of money, put it straight out. There is no new political vision in Norway: the Progress Party has been in charge of that policy for many years, and they are doing so today. But the new thing is – and that’s the subtitle – that the right does not distance itself from it, the Christian People’s Party does not distance itself from it, and the left does not distance itself from it. I put – and it is with all due respect, so it must not be misunderstood – the Left and Christian People's Party in a small bracket. However, the fact that the spokespersons of the Court of Justice do not make themselves clear – neither in the comments nor in this debate – in relation to the new understanding of the rule of action by the Progress Party is the most noteworthy in this debate. They still have the chance to do it, of course -- the list of speakers is still open. I'm waiting for such a mark. If that is not the case, are we at the heart of the matter, namely, the question that is then politically serious to ask: is it the case that the economic policy of the Right is on the verge of action? Is it on gli with regard to the use of money? Is it so that we can fear that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy – if they were to face the situation of forming a government – will really start overusing Norwegian money and jeopardising jobs and the Norwegian economy? Why do they not respond to it in concrete terms? That's my question. The most remarkable thing is that they simply do not do so in this debate. In the last few seconds, I'd just like to take a little visit to the representative of Solvik-Olsen, who characterised the education of Torgeir Mikalsen. Now it is that Solvik-Olsen often claims that he has broad economic education. If that's saying, that's not always what it sounds like.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1688	We now have to deal with the revision of the national budget. The point of the revision that we do every year at this time is that we have just gained new knowledge about the budget over the year so far and have to make necessary changes because of the new knowledge. The Justice Committee has been around the country. We travel around the country and meet the various branches within the sector. Then the feedback is quite unambiguous. The Progress Party has taken into account the fact that we have now revised this part of the national budget. There is a shortage of resources in the justice sector. It is quite clear, whether you are in the police districts, in the courts or in criminal matters. There is resource scarcity, and at the same time, some shortcomings that should be unnecessary in this society, among others. in the field of ICT. It should be unnecessary for the local troubleshooter to go down to Statoil to write his sentence because there is a network that works. It should be easy to get this in place. We still have the 2005 penal code, which was adopted in 2009, which has not yet entered into force due to the ICT situation. These are some examples that we should be dealing with fairly quickly. We have good opportunities to do that. Security of life and property are among the most fundamental rights in society. It is quite clear that society must make the necessary resources available so that justice can perform its tasks satisfactorily and that the population can feel the security they need. That is why it is absolutely necessary for the police to have the resources they need. Like I said, we've been around the country. We feel that the clear signal from the police districts is that there are too tight operating budgets. That makes you have real downtime in many places. It is not possible to replace positions where people end or for example. retirees. We see that finding jobs for newly-trained police students is a challenge. It's going to be interesting to see what's going to be the reality of this year's coal leaving the Police College now, if you can find enough jobs this summer. We also see that priority should be given to investment in the police sector, and this would seriously affect the operation. We can't have it like that. There is a target set for two police officers per thousand inhabitants in 2020. About all the districts tell us that this is going in the wrong direction. You're not approaching two, you're moving fast towards one. As we see out here today, the Oslo Police have special challenges. That's why we want us to have a special bet on the Oslo Police. Oslo is what we can call our only big city with national tasks. It requires the Storting to be willing to spend extra money on the Oslo Police, not least in the light of the challenges they faced last summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1703	I want to say that today we're actually in a very lucky situation. We can discuss areas of activity in the revised budget, while the parliaments of other countries need to discuss large budget cuts, high unemployment and perhaps even social unrest. There is still considerable uncertainty in the international economy, particularly in relation to further developments in the euro area. The euro area unemployment rate is now at a higher level than it was under the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 – it is actually up to 11pst. The increasing unemployment rate for young people is giving extra cause for concern. In both Spain and Greece, the youth unemployment rate is over 50pst. Half the youth goes without a job. It's serious. It's a threat to countries' ability to grow out of crisis, and it's a tragedy for young people who can't get out and use their knowledge and skills, and who don't have the opportunity to support themselves. We do not need to look further than in Sweden to find youth unemployment solutions of well over 20 pst. Tens of thousands of Swedish youths move to Norway to get a job. This must be an important reminder for us. Krisa is not far away -- she's actually in our backyard, and at least we shouldn't believe we're immune. But the most important thing we can do is take care of the order of our own houses. It means following an economic policy where we follow the rule of action, ensuring that interest rates stay low, and that the krone price does not get too high – and not least that we make sure to keep people at work. We've managed well through the financial crisis. We have some luck, but the most important thing is that we've done a lot right over a long time. As the Chairman of the Committee and the Advocate-General of the Court of Justice said, the rule of action 'has provided self-imposed protection against policy on transfers'. Now the rule of action is actually facing a threat from the Progress Party. In a very turbulent time in Europe, where Norway differs as one of the countries where things are going well, the Progress Party wants to scrap one of the cornerstones of economic policy. The reason for this is that the rule stands in the way of the Progress Party’s overcoming policy. Until now, there has been a broad debate on the rules of action. All the responsible parties on the Stortinget have arrested him for the last 11 years. So I'm concerned that the Right, who takes the lead in governing the country, has now been more winged with regard to where they stand when it comes to the rule of action. The representative, Mr Sanner, has stated that the Right and the Advance Party are «now agreeing on the direction of economic policy». I have also not registered that someone from the Right has given as much as one comment as to the 6-page dismantling of the rule of action, so it might be interesting to hear what the Right really means. Yesterday, Stadsbyggen presented the project for the new building of the Veterinary Hog School and the Veterinary Institute. Norway's largest gardening needs to be moved, it says in our newspaper. Then I see that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party write that they are concerned about the increase in costs. However, the reason for the increase in the cost estimate is, among other things, higher international standards for laboratories, cadaver management and infectious diseases, as well as stronger requirements for universal design, energy use and the environment. We're actually for all of these factors, and I thought the representatives of both the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party must be. These costs would have come independently of location. I'm very happy that the plural doesn't want to join any rematch right now. As I said, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have written in their comments that they are concerned, and the Progress Party will even stop the entire move project. In fact, a stop to the project may result in poorer international accreditation of the veterinary high ball. Movement of the Veterinary High School and the Veterinary Institute never has our district policy foundations. There are only grounds for professional and research policy arguments. It is clear in the 2008 resolution, which I recommend to the representative Hanekamhaug to read.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1724	The treatment of the revised national budget is not the time for rematching. Nevertheless, I feel that the government is adding up to it just by making it clear that their policy does not work, just as we warned in budgetary management both last year and in the past. There was no lack of self-confidence from the government parties. The word was used as ‘recording’ in the municipal economy, and it was claimed that it was well ahead of the form in order to achieve the goal of 12,000 new health homes and nursing homes in 2015. But what do we see? Yes, at the turn of the year, there were 773 million. kr in investment grants for lucky day slots unused in the account. Indebted counties. They simply cannot afford to cover the municipal abstinence and not least provide the necessary means of operation within the current framework grant. The result is also that the provision of nursing homes and care accommodation continues. The municipalities have been informed that they can save 40 000 – 50 000 kroner per place per year, and do so – they seize that opportunity, knowing that this means a reduction in the quality of the offer, and that nursing homes are not suitable for the sickest of the elderly. Double rooms are converted into single rooms, without the lost rooms being replaced by new ones. In 2010, the net growth of lucky days places was since the elections of 1 147. The following year, net growth was below 1000 places, of which there were only 22 new hospitals – I repeat 22 new hospitals since 2009. Was it this Gro Harlem Brundtland and Jens Stoltenberg promised the old ones in 2009? No, absolutely not. Already in 2010, the government received criticism from the National Audit Office because there were too few seats. The Minister of Health promised improvement, but we see the same problems when the 2011 accounts are settled. This cannot be continued. We're talking about the health service for those who built this country. We're talking about the sickest old people and what society is going to offer them in their last year of life. Here it doesn't help with what my fractional leader calls empty mist and numbering, here's the fact that you have to deal with, and action that needs to take place. The Progress Party has argued for a number of years that we must receive state funding for the care of the elderly, and the municipalities must be responsible for the performance of the service. Then the money will come automatically, so that old, sick people can have the necessary care and care of the right quality and at the right level. Therefore, in the current review of the revision, the Advance Party has committed 500 million. kr extra for the operation of nursing homes. I was a short time ago in a debate with the representatives of Breen and Hansen under the auspices of the National Association for Public Health, and then there was a liberating recognition from the Workers' Party's representative that the care of the elderly in Kommune-Norway went for half the machine. Furthermore, we were told that both the Workers' Party and SV considered earmarking funds for the care of the elderly to remedy this. Clearly, the center party is the brake block that ensures that we cannot get the promise that Norwegian care for the elderly needs. The Progress Party believes it is a public task to organise and finance the care of the elderly. Good care for the elderly cannot depend on good or poor local economy, the ability of local politicians to prioritize or vary in demographics. Therefore, the Progress Party wants the State to have financial responsibility for the care of the elderly and for public and private actors to be able to compete on equal terms to provide services. Parental care shall be provided on the basis of the equivalence of all persons and with respect for the dignity of the individual. The Progress Party also proposes to grant 2 billion in its draft budget. to regional health establishments in order to pay off debts. Unfortunately, we see today that the high debt burden on health businesses is contributing to the reduction of service provision and the inability to invest in, for example, initial investment. medical engineering equipment. With a One of the negative outcomes we see is the rotation of health care businesses from long-term to short-term. In my home country now Phoenix House Haga loses its agreement after 22 years of successful operation. We have a screaming lack of treatment facilities, and then it is not possible to make a well-functioning offer to save 25 million. kr. I also wonder about the quality criteria used. Here it is measured how many nurses and psychologists you have employed, which makes a therapeutic society there, among other things. Former drug users are employed, poorly reported. While results — how many have become drug-free after treatment — are not at all emphasised. Health South-East has itself evaluated the offer at Haga and has seen that seven out of ten patients are drug-free after finishing treatment. This is an eye-catching good result, and that is what should be quality criterion No. 1st@item: inlistbox I would strongly ask the Minister of Health to go into this matter and make sure that Phoenix House Haga is not laid down. It takes a long time to build up good drug deals, but they can be demolished with a pen stroke if we have a government that doesn't have the ability to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1737	The representative, Kolberg, used most of his intervention to ask questions about the economic policy of the Right. This is a question that he has asked many times, and which he has also been answered many times. The right is in line with the rule of action, but both parts of the rule of action – not only the part about how much money you are going to spend in the economy, but also the part about what the bulk of the money is going to be spent on, namely research, development, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax havens. The government is failing and the Workers' Party is failing. But the representative of Kolberg is obviously so happy to listen to his own question that he does not have the opportunity to hear the answers. It's going well in Norway. Not least, we're doing well in the oil-based part of our business. It's going so well that this government has 60 billion. kr more to be used in the 2012 budget than one had in 2005. That's why the government's answer is always that they spend more money than the previous government. But more money is also all this government has. Because we're in a situation where one sees that the oil-based part of the economy is doing well, but we're getting a two-part business. The NHO’s latest business cycle report shows that the oil industry is doing very well, and most of the lamps are red for non-oil competitive industries. Therefore, it is right for the Right to propose in its alternative proposal that now focus on knowledge, research and education in a larger conversion package for the competitive industry. For safe governance today can quickly provide an insecure future if one just controls and does not have new ideas and better solutions. There is a need for a strong level of competence for teachers. It's good teachers who can balance the social differences in school. Public-private cooperation is needed to meet societal challenges. Today, if you need a knee operation or a medical examination when you are sick, and contact, you often get a message from the private hospitals that this month’s knee allowances have been used up. What's the point of the government rationalizing people's treatment? Why is it not open to public–private cooperation to bring down health cows and get people back to work faster? Why is it that if you have a good idea and want to establish a free school with new pedagogical solutions that really help those who are struggling in Norwegian, math or English, then one of this government is only allowed to do so if one is based on a pedagogic that was developed 100 years ago or has a religious basis? Why not let go of new ideas and better solutions and allow us to establish fresh schools that receive public funding, so that they will also be an alternative for people with a normal economy? It is entirely possible today to establish good schools with alternative pedagogics if one just does it on a commercial basis where people pay. The difference between this government and the Right is that the Right wants to give everyone in society freedom of choice, completely independent of the thickness of the wallet, while this government is pursuing a health policy and education policy where it is those who have a good economy, those who can afford to take out private health insurance, who have the opportunity to choose between different solutions, while the majority of people are in long-term health cows and have only one alternative, and that's what the Workers' Party has decided to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1753	When we review the revised budget today, I am happy on behalf of the 1,400 women who are waiting for breast reconstruction after treatment for cancer. There are many who have engaged themselves, not least the breast-surgery itself. That's why it's great that we're now, for 2012, giving 50 million. kr to start a national effort to reduce waiting time. At the same time, it is important to point out that Norwegian cancer doctors have some of the best results in the world. Norway has Europe’s highest survival of breast cancer. We're going to be proud of that and build on it. But many have waited too long for the breast reconstruction, and although they are healthy from the cancer, it goes without saying that it is a great burden to wait for the treatment to be completed. Now there's an offer in place, so these women don't wait that long. The working group that looked at breast reconstruction earlier this year came to its conclusion in March, and perhaps as important as the actual allocation, it is that the Minister of Health will implement five points in order to remove the queue and reduce waiting time: make the breast reconstruction at the same time as the cancer operation where the cancer allows it to build up and exploit the capacity of the hospitals in Oslo, Tromsø, Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Telemark and Østfold ensure similar practices throughout the country with the new professional guidelines and national requirements for the treatment of breast cancer consider bringing together breast cancer treatment to hospitals with plastic surgery reduce the proportion of the most complex operations – simpler interventions must be used where medically reasonable We've had some force in the past to reduce the waiting time for breast cancer surgery. What is now the difference is that other measures are being taken in addition to those that will lead to a change in practice, so that we won't experience new cows in a few years' time. This allocation to regional health businesses will have a major impact on the quality of life of many women. That's why it's good that we get started right away. It was a bit special to hear the representatives of Hunter Gåsvatn's posts about Phoenix Haga. What is now happening to Phoenix Haga is precisely the result of a policy that the Progress Party will have, namely the purchase and sale of services, competitive outsourcing and bidding rounds. I don't think that's a good solution, and that's why I'm happy that Health South-East is now making long-term ongoing agreements, so we don't have to have the challenges that we have on Phoenix Haga right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1787	The economic crisis in Europe worries us all and also affects us at home. As many have experienced, the export industry is particularly vulnerable. In the spring, we in the Workers' Party have had an extra high level of preparedness in this area, including: by the fact that we have visited 100 export companies in 100 days. That's how we've taken the temp and the pulse extra thoroughly at a time when the economy in Europe is showing serious signs of disease. The main message from these 100 companies is that they want the government to continue its safe political governance with a responsible economic policy – in many ways contrary to the economic policy of the Progress Party, which suggests that Norway should almost sail its own boat and its own sea, and that it will throw the rule of action overboard. The government's proposal for a revised government budget, on the other hand, meets the main demand from the 100 companies we visited now in spring. In addition, the government provides many other important framework conditions for our business. I myself want to bring forward the framework conditions for the power-processing industry. Over the years the red-green government has delivered on small and large terms the industry has asked for. The revised State budget mentions the need for a compensation mechanism for indirect quota costs incurred by industry. This has rightly been identified as a crucial framework for a further future for the power-generating industry in Norway. Industry itself wants an international climate agreement in place, because it will provide a level playing field in view of the need for everyone to contribute to taking responsibility for the climate. But before such an agreement is in place, we must prevent our power-processing industry from choosing to move out to countries that do not have CO2 impacts in the power price. These countries, as we know, often have energy sources such as coal and gas, which naturally do not contribute to reducing global climate emissions. Both the value creation in Norway and the global climate accounts will lose if the power-processing industry leaves our country. In the revised government budget, the government states that it will establish a compensation mechanism for indirect quota costs. This is very well received by the industry. In the Workers' Party, we are very pleased that the government continues to provide an important framework for industry. Value creation by ensuring jobs and work for all is a prerequisite for Norway to continue to develop as the world’s best country to live in. For the Workers' Party and the Government, this job is no. one. The proposal for a revised State budget is part of doing this job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1809	We are in a time of destiny for the young people of Europe. The consequences of a misguided economic policy are dramatically reflected when it effectively deprives young people of opportunities and belief in the future. Mass unemployment is the greatest threat we face. In Norway, unemployment is at a record low level. We have done so well to create growth and new jobs that we have actually done more to combat youth unemployment for the Swedes than their own bourgeois government has done. Low unemployment is essential if we are to succeed in including those who are furthest away from the labour market. Employers in both the public and private sectors are today forced to confront their own prejudices and assess potential workers who would otherwise be in line. But for the Workers' Party, which aims to get the whole people to work, we do not settle down with low leave. On the contrary, we know that there are more people who can and will work, but some people need help on the way. In working on the 2013 budget, we are following the labour market situation closely. We will review the Youth Guarantee in order to look at opportunities for early and closer follow-up of young unemployed people in a long-term perspective, where new forces will come from Europe in the years to come and offer their labour force. It requires an overall review of what it means for those jobseekers who are struggling to get to work. That is why we have taken action and continue to take action in the job strategy, in particular targeting young people. Social security may be used as a pay supplement in tests. The active use of social security instead of passivity is a line we'll bet on. The Progress Party increases the allocation of some positive projects. It is okay if a policy is driven by the approach of entry and exit. The Labour Party will go more thoroughly to work, but we will not punish young people who need economic social assistance at lower rates, as Right wants, or a separate duty of activity without assessing each individual individually, as the Progress Party will. All young people coming to the Nav Office are registered as job seekers and must be active job seekers, if that is the right action. Others need help to finish school or come to treatment. Nav may also require participation in actions. Action must be meaningful and must be a step in the right direction towards a working life. Proper and good action is the point, not punishment or coercion because of young age. Combined with child protection, mental health and substance abuse, we attack the cause of many young people struggling. As a representative of Eastfold counties with significant export industries, I am pleased that the state budget is revised in such a way as to support employment and secure jobs. Safe economic governance provides security for people's livelihoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1826	The president hopes that the conversation in the back of the hall will not overwhelm the speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1829	I was about to say, Don't let me disturb you! One of the finance committee's members from the Workers' Party said that we live in a different reality than the rest of Europe. [[Laughter]] No, we don't. The value-creating competitive business to provide the basis for the welfare society lives in the reality of the rest of Europe and the trading partners every day. It also describes the government parties themselves in a note where they say that the main challenge for the Norwegian economy is the two-track economy, the high cost level that is now 60 pst. higher than our trading partners. Most of the increase has come under this government. So the question is, what do you do with that? The representative Torve has traveled around 100 of these export companies throughout the country and has taken their pulse. But it doesn't keep taking the pulse -- you have to actually also prescribe some kind of medicine. The medicine from the finance minister we have not heard anything about here today. He says that things have to be put into a larger context. Yes, but in order to be more coherent, there must also be a smaller context – the link that makes Norwegian enterprises competitive, can contribute to the creation of value added and create the jobs that will once again create the welfare society. With the government's own problem description in the notes, I expected that significant measures would have been implemented in the revision for conversion, but there is little to be done for wood processing through diversified measures that have been put under pressure. From the Right, we believe that we should be better prepared for the future. It means more focus on education, research, development, innovation, new businesses and, above all, incentives for existing enterprises. It's where most of the new things are created, no matter what else. That's why we've used 1 billion. kr in our alternative to a conversion package for Norwegian business, where we focus on nutrient research, in particular what can be directed directly towards businesses. We focus investment capital through increased depreciation directly on stimulating businesses, and a seed fund in addition to what is proposed by the government. To the seed funds, I would like to say that the ones we had have been empty for a long time. The government has said on several occasions that it will come. It's going incredibly late, especially considering the situation described in the remarks from the financial fraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1844	Many people have argued that we in Norway are in a good situation. Several of them point out, quite correctly, that this is about safe economic governance and good management of the natural resources we have at our disposal. But it's also about the management of our greatest wealth: the human resources. The fact that we have a common school in Norway where we meet across social groups in society may be the most important foundation for much of the development we have had here in this country. We have a closeness to each other. The fact that we all meet, regardless of background, on common premises at school has helped shape Norway into a country characterized by cohesion and relatively small social differences. That makes us have a culture in the workplace where everyone has the same amount of right to say from. The engineer is no more valuable than the skilled worker, and everyone is listened to. This creates a foundation for employee-driven innovation, which is also part of the explanation of the strong competitiveness that we have, despite the high cost level. Then we also see that the labour market has continued to improve. Employment passed the level before the financial crisis last year and continues to show clear growth. The unemployment rate has remained around 3 pst. This is, of course, because the government has conducted a sound economic policy that has created growth in the number of jobs of around 300,000, but it is also because Norwegian workers are very adaptable because they have a solid foundation with knowledge at the bottom. The opposition is promoting the need for good teachers in school. That's not new. We've been working on that for a long time, from the Storting and the government. Instead of arguing with the teachers and talking Norwegian school and teachers down, as the Right and Kristin Clemet did when they had their chance in government, we have spent time talking the common school and the teachers up. It's given results. From 2008 until now, the number of first-choice applicants for teacher training has increased by 50 pst. It means more good teachers in school – also because we have increased seats in the revised budget. That we have also had an increase of 22 pst. in the number of applicants for pre-school teacher training, gives us an even better foundation for the future. In Sweden, Right's best friends, Moderates. There are public tax credits in the financial group that own Swedish schools. Last night there was a report on Swedish TV about how the private John Bauer school was at Jumbo place for quality in Swedish school. When we know that these kinds of schools are Right Dream Schools, the kind of schools they fought to get into Norway under the previous government, a lot of the Right rhetoric around school becomes empty words to me. The community is served with the community school, and the community school is served with a red-green government – it understands people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1861	I have overheard this debate, and I must say I am quite surprised. The last post before I came to the pulpit confirms so much of my amazement. A wise party colleague of mine said a few years ago that when you get into government, there are three phases. The first phase is marked by uncertainty – everything is new, you have to learn a lot. The second phase is that you go into a very productive phase where you become familiar with the role and produce a lot of policies for the benefit of the country. The third phase is worse. It's that phase when you think that you and the government you're part of are the only ones that have all the answers. Then the warning lights must begin to light. I think this debate is in many ways marked by a government and by government parties within the third phase. You don't see the warning lights, just your own excellence. You sit with all the answers. This is what characterises the debate. It's alarming, because the country needs a government that looks beyond and beyond. It is not my job to advise the government, but the country needs a government that looks outward and forward, and not inward, a government that is not introverted, and that only believes in its own answers. Everything else gets deformed. Then to script. I was going to talk about justice policy. In the Right Alternative Justice Budget for the current year, we added 400 million. more than the government, because there are major security and security challenges in Norwegian society. It continues on the right hand side of the revised national budget. I'll mention some moments in that context. In Oslo police districts in particular, there are specific challenges related to organised crime and drugs. That's why we're proposing $30 million. kr is now in the strengthened operational budget of the Oslo Police District. I'd like to mention criminal custody in particular. Let's add 20 million. to set up several classes at the educational centre of criminal law. It is absolutely necessary to bring more skilled people into Norwegian prisons to ensure better rehabilitation and reduced relapses after an end of residence. There are many other things from my manuscript I could point to that I don't get the time to refer to. We're going to have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1874	The previous speaker was very concerned about making a diagnosis of the government's work. It should be unnecessary to mention that there is guaranteed to be at least one ‘second opinion’ on that diagnosis. Now I'm not going to use my speaking time to polemize against it, but I want to grasp the situation that many representatives have been facing, that there is a considerable uncertainty and uncertainty in the economy today, both in Europe and in the rest of the world. Although we have good order in our own house and good control of the economy in Norway, we are not untouched. A few miles south of Bodø is Glomfjord. There they have a nearly 100-year industrial history, and in recent years billions have been invested in the production of wafers for the production of solar panels. In view of, inter alia: decreasing demand and lower prices on the world market, REC, which owned these factories, has seen the need to complete all production in Glomfjord. That means that 650 people lose their jobs, which means that 650 families experience great uncertainty about the future. For the municipality as a society, it's a disaster. Suddenly, 20 pst. of the workplaces away. In addition, there is a significant risk of loss of additional jobs as a result of reduced activity in the municipality. The sum of these is a threat to the very existence of the municipality. This is not the first time Glomfjord has been faced with major challenges in the face of economic turmoil in the world. The first time was in the 1920s. Then the solution was that the state took over all the activities, which ensured the municipality many, many years of high value creation. There have also been several other periods of demands for major conversions, and this has been achieved in Glomfjord, because you have had the will and the ability to succeed in transformations – and because the big community has given some help to get over them. Every time, new businesses and new jobs have emerged in Glomfjord, as was done in connection with changes in Mo in Rana, in Meråker, in Årdal and many other places up through the 1900s. That is why I am pleased that the big community is making up when the consequences of the shortcomings of the free market have serious and direct consequences for many people, including this time. Today, a majority on the Stortinget will allocate 50 million. NOK for conversion support to Meløy municipality. Along with $25 million. kr from the municipality of Nordland and SEK 25 million. kr from the municipality itself, it makes an important contribution to the necessary conversion this time as well. This money is covered by Chapter 551 Regional Development and Innovation. There is an item that gives county councils room for action to support new businesses and thus secure their settlement throughout the country. But I notice that the Right and Left are promoting proposals to cut these funds. In fact, the Right Screen will screen the grant to the municipality of Meløy, but at the same time refers to its proposal that municipalities retain more of the tax revenue, including the corporate tax. It is my opinion that municipalities that are struggling with a decline in the population, a one-sided nutrient base and demanding conversion needs do not need reductions in public transfers for the benefit of tax-rich municipalities. They need a hand bill from the community to make use of their resources for the benefit of the inhabitants and for the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1887	Norway needs infrastructure adapted to future safety, comfort, quality, predictability and accessibility requirements. Through the Right Alternative to the Revised National Budget, we want to facilitate this. More, better and safer roads will connect the country and provide a better basis for economic growth and provide viable communities. A modern and efficient railway makes the train more attractive to business and travellers and leads to reduced car use. The right will facilitate the movement of goods from road to rail and sea. On the right, a number of initiatives are being taken in the revised national budget to strengthen the commitment to transport. We grant more money for the racial and flood protection of roads and railways. Security and accessibility are important and must be prioritised. We're strengthening the bet on the midpoints and multifield paths. Right-wing want increased safety for road users. In June 2011, the Right launched a road safety strategy. In this context, it was agreed to lower the mid-term threshold to 6000 ÅDT – annual daily traffic – in the short term and 4000 ÅDT in the long term. We follow up this promise through our appropriations. The reward scheme for public transport needs to be strengthened. This has now entered into the climate agreement, and therefore we should be ready to step up public transport efforts as soon as possible. The right does this in its proposal. There is a cross-political consensus that today's model of organisation in the field of transport is not good enough. The previous bourgeois government seized and began with smarter project organisation using Public Private Cooperation. Three roads were built using this method. The largest project was a modern four-field motorway between Kristiansand and Grimstad. The project was completed at record speed and today provides a good and safe way for thousands of drivers. The first thing the red-green government did when it got power was to put everything aside. The working party wants to continue with the expansion of the state budget and annual appropriations – and they have been doing so since 2005. OPS has been shown to provide for a reduction in costs, a significant reduction in construction time and a guarantee that the roads are maintained smoothly for the duration of the OPS Agreement. The professional basis in favour of OPS is clear, both the 2001 and 2007 TØI reports, and a Vista Analysis report of 21 May this year, say that there are good professional arguments for using new methods in the road sector. But the government is against it. In the Bondevik II government, one of the state councils said that the opposition occasionally comes up with proposals that improve our proposals, and then we include it in our proposal. I wonder when this government is going to do the same thing. It is time for new ideas and better solutions in the transport sector. The right can deliver this, and we have done so in our alternative revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1904	Like Mr Wickholm from the Labour Party, I would also like to talk about Højre's policy in relation to our alternative revised national budget. The right has great ambitions for Norwegian students. The school will give all students the opportunity to shape their own future. A major effort on knowledge and competences is important for individuals and for society as a whole. One of the most important actions of the Right for knowledge in school in our proposal for a revised national budget is our commitment to continuing training of teachers. We've said it before – and repeat it again – it's the teacher that's the most important resource in the Norwegian school. A good teacher is absolutely essential for students’ learning, and the Stortinget also recently adopted new skills requirements for teachers. The right believes that we have to set the same standards for new teachers and teachers who are already teaching at school. So the right-hand side suggests 150 million. kr more for continuing training. With our arrangement for a cost-sharing between the State/municipality and the individual teacher, there will be far more opportunities for teachers to take part in continuing training. Many vocational students are not offered apprenticeships. This is alarming, as it increases the risk of having to stop the training. An offensive for several apprenticeship places is therefore important in order to prevent professional drop-outs. We believe that a sufficient number of apprenticeship places are a vital prerequisite for the functioning of vocational and vocational training. That is why we are proposing to increase the apprenticeship grant from the autumn of 2012 for enterprises that include new apprentices. The right has far greater ambitions for research than the government has, and it also shows our priorities. We propose several scholarships and postdocs, several nutrition doctorates, and we also propose to reintroduce the gift-enhancing scheme, which has been removed by the government. So the right-hand side prioritizes competence and knowledge, and we'll do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1918	There was one thing I didn't get mentioned in my main post. It's proposed 100 million. Mr President, I should like to add a few words to Mr Ofotbanen's draft budget which is on the table. The money must go to a new ore port in Narvik and upgrade the transport capacity. The situation of Ofotbanen is that the mining industry in northern Sweden significantly increases its capacity, in particular LKAB, but new mining companies are also planned both in northern Sweden and in northern Finland. Increased commodity prices are the background to this significantly increased activity. At the same time, transport of goods from Oslo to North Norway is increasing through North Sweden via Narvik, and the situation is that if capacity is not increased over a period of two to five years, the capacity on the road will collapse and priority will have to be given to transport. What is especially about Ofotbanen and the transports to North Sweden and North Norway over this track is that this need has increased radically in recent years, in such a way that it has not been able to capture it either in the national transport plan or in the annual budgets. So the situation requires that you think differently, you have to look at new opportunities. It is also underlined in the Committee's comments. The mining industry will be challenged — which is a major contributor to this activity — to participate in and contribute to the construction. The second option for the Ministry of Transport is to increase the road tax on the heaviest axle loads, so that the industry can also be financed and financed by this upgrade. But the state, above the state budget, must also be involved and contribute. Otherwise you will have a situation in a short time – as I have said – where the entire transport capacity breaks down. I would like to stress that, in particular, the transport of goods to North Norway from Alnabru, Oslo and northward via Narvik can be harmful. Then we get in the situation that transport goes from track to road, and we don't want that. This is why it is a major challenge, in particular for the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Transport, to find a solution to this particular financing need in the budget – and in the annual budgets. We're talking about up to 500 million. kr, in a short time, so that the necessary upgrade of Ofotbanen can be completed as provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1933	That's not what you don't know, that gets you in trouble. That's what you're absolutely sure about, but that's still not right. There's something the Progress Party should take over. Because there you seem to be absolutely sure. You have to feel safe on yourself to propose first to change the foundation of economic policy, then change your own proposal several times, and continue to be convinced that you yourself are right. Throughout Europe, the dilemma of economic policy is debated: high levels of government debt require new restrictions, but new restrictions prevent increased employment and new levels of economic activity. Norway has had good conditions to cope with the financial crisis. But when we now have lower unemployment in an economic crisis in Europe than the average for the last quarter of a century, governance must also have been good. I have heard the claims from the Progress Party before, but I still think they are eye-catching. Listening to Solvik-Olsen, you could get the impression that only the oil revenues are causing the Norwegian economy to go well. The oil industry is a very important part of the economy, with high value creation and major ring-effects. But the Nordic countries are all among the best in the world on economic and social capital and among the best on economic sustainability, although not all have the same oil revenues as us. It's this thing about the Nordic model, the mutual trust in society, that the committee leader talked about, low transaction costs and transparency. These are values that have been created over many decades of good political governance. So it sounds like that because oil-related investment is not part of the government budget in the ordinary way, it shouldn't have been. The oil industry is completely unique in value creation per crown invested. That something has been excluded is not an argument to remove everything from the contribution of the rule of action to predictability in the Norwegian economy. As Torgeir Micaelsen had said: Almost no matter how much oil money the government proposes, the Progress Party proposes a little more. In the long term, it weakens confidence in economic governance and its predictability. That's what this is all about. You have to be very sure when you present your own economic policy that you stand alone about, and know what uncertainty it creates about the long lines of economic governance. And you have to be safe on your own to ask the head of the Financial Committee of the Storting to take more courses in economics – the course that the representatives of the Progress Party are not alone in having.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1948	We're doing well in the Norwegian economy, but we have a challenge: it looks like we're getting a two-way split in the Norwegian economy. In oil-related industries, things are going very well, but in other parts of business, there are some challenges. Among other things, it may be necessary for part of the land-based industry to acquire skilled labour. Therefore, it is very important to consider measures that provide a strengthening of the land-based industry, so that we get a diverse and robust industrial structure in the country. SV is therefore concerned that we need to focus heavily on innovation and innovation. It helps to create businesses and shortages that can give perspective beyond the oil age, but also a balanced and diverse business life in today's situation with a heavy oil sector. An important commitment to innovation and innovation is risk capital. We've seen that the private owners of capital in Norway are not good at taking risks. It's too good to spend money on the established offshore industries. Therefore, SV is very happy that the government now announces that we will establish up to six seed funds. Now it's important that we get good processes to establish the seed funds. We know that the different regions of Norway have different industrial structures, and they have different competences. By building on the strength of the various regions, we can get clear, professional profiles from the various seed funds, which gather, because they are all nationwide, cover a wide range of Norwegian business and Norwegian skills needs, while each has a clear profile and can therefore do a good job. Now the government has been clear that we should aim to establish funds in all parts of the country. There has been no right in saying anything about it, despite the fact that they are going out in the South and promising a fund to the South. I have not seen this any place in the current treatment setting, so I have a certain feeling that the Right is running a small double game here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1959	Today, when we have dealt with the revised national budget, we can, in our own opinion, take a well-deserved breath in the ground before we reach the end of this growing period in the autumn. Three new years have gone by a red-green majority, a government and a large majority who have, over seven years, steered the country safely through impure waters with a rough course towards an even better low-unemployment society, high employment, good competitiveness and not least welfare services that have at the same time improved for us as individuals. The health and care sector is no exception in this context — a sector that is developing and where employees each day contribute their knowledge, competence and workforce to making our healthcare even safer with a focus on patient safety and quality at all stages. Norway is increasingly improving international health quality measurements. That is why it is particularly gratifying that one in the revised national budget has set at 50 million. kr to initiate the national breast reconstruction due diligence for breast cancer surgery. The allocation is proposed for regional health enterprises, so that women throughout the country waiting for such treatment are now offered a good and necessary offer. The red-green government also follows up the increased pension costs in the health sector. Overall, the government grants over SEK 2.1 billion. kr to the regional health establishments. 200 million. kr of this is used to handle increased pension costs for private health institutions with contracts. This is also supported by the opposition in their comments and creates predictability of funding and operation for our health institutions in both the public, private and non-profit sectors. Oslo University Hospital is developing Aker Hospital as the interaction arena, a part of the work on the Cooperation Reform, which entered into force on 1 January 2012. It is therefore very positive that Health South-East is given the opportunity to dispose of a total of 75 million. kr to interaction measures in 2012 within the given loan framework and that one can also use up to 50 million. kr in 2013. Good interaction measures that provide better health benefits benefit all patients. Finally, I would also like to express great satisfaction that the government has set aside 18.5 million. kr for follow-up after 22 July. This is very important in order to be able to follow up on those who were hit by the terrorist attacks against the government quarter and the Utøi. Such a commitment could strengthen the provision of treatment to children and young people exposed to traumatic events — events that, unfortunately, could last a long, long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1972	There has been a very good upsurge in the revised national budgets of the large organisations, such as NHO, LO, Norwegian Industry, Works and KS. That's good. I want to bring forward some nutrition rights that are under review. First to seed funds, or so-called early capital. Today's situation is that the existing seed funds are almost fully funded, and it is a pleasure that we now have two new ones in place. The fund shall be nationwide and reported. St. 22 for 2011–2012 Growth tools alert the government that we would bring up to six new nationwide funds. The devices of the new funds cannot be easily compared to the existing seed funds, as some from the Right are trying to express themselves. We can't say that the risk relief is reduced from 25 pst. to 15 pst. without including 15 pst in the new funds. go only to the private investors, as opposed to the current arrangement, where there is a division between the state and the private. This division is such that first covers the state's losses, then they get their private cover. There is also a change in that the state of the new funds only enters with equity rather than loans. Another alert bet in Growth Tools is business angels, where Innovation Norway is now starting work on setting up a network. Then we want the entire capital chain, which is so important for entrepreneurs who are going to start up. I'm glad you've got a climate action fund in place. In this context, I would like to point out that it is important that the government continues to make sure that the fund achieves its purpose and has sufficient diligence, so that it becomes a good tool for our industry. I am also pleased that several incubators under SIVA are being established. This is a very good tool for the industrial effort. Now, once we've got three new incubators rigged, it's important that we also assess the strength of them, so that they become the muscle we want them to be. In the revised version, there was a renewed promise that the government would establish a compensation scheme for the CO2 surcharge. This is a nice summer gift to our power-generating industry and will help prevent carbon leakage. Norway is cutting high on the vast majority of companies when it comes to establishing and operating businesses, this in sharp contrast to the black measurement of the situation of Norwegian enterprises and the start-up of businesses. Even with the good pay level in Norway and the strict work environment law, we are cutting high levels of competitiveness. We have crabs from the 17th place to the 8th place. It's positive and good. It's also enough to remind you that there are almost 320,000 new jobs in Norway since we came to power. Over 200,000 of these are in the private sector. This is ten times as many new businesses as when Right ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e1994	The 2012 budget estimated that there would be, on average, 41,500 beneficiaries of an old-age pension under the age of 67. In the revised national budget, this estimate is strongly adjusted to 51,800. Expenditure on old-age pensions in 2012 is estimated to increase by 1,750 million. Compared to the estimate in the 2012 budget, mainly as a result of several pensioners under the age of 67. A flexible withdrawal of old-age pensions from the age of 62 thus means that more people charge pensions earlier than before, and that affects the annual budgets. Over time, however, there is little difference between retirement and retirement before or after 67 years. In fact, the rules for withdrawing old-age pensions are designed in such a way that early withdrawals of pensions provide lower annual pensions. But the fact that the individual can now continue to work as he increases his pension affects greatly the creation of value in society and, therefore, our common well-being. By the end of 2011, almost two thirds of pensioners under the age of 67 were still at work. I believe that the increased contribution of older workers to the Norwegian economy far exceeds the increase in pension expenditure, apart from the fact that older workers are a labour force resource that we have, and will be used for years to come. The pension reform works, in other words, and I'm going to take a lot of mistakes if that development doesn't continue in the next few years. It pays to work longer, and the individual can choose for himself when he or she wants to leave the labour market in whole or in part. Then I have to add that this primarily applies to the private sector, and that, unfortunately, the pension scheme in the public sector does not go in the same direction, rather on the contrary. The public sector organisations themselves have wanted to maintain the gross pension scheme, and we should, of course, respect that. However, I have noticed that public sector organisations also see that there are aspects of today's pension scheme that should and can be changed and that may also be able to join the parties. I am not least thinking of part-time workers – mainly women – who pay to the pension scheme without getting anything back, and coordination rules, which actually counteract a sensible senior policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2005	The Minister of Finance was in the speech occupied by an important part of society — that man has work. There's something we in the Progress Party can be very few in. The Minister of Finance also mentions the importance of human opportunities, so that they have a future. But how can it be that all groups in this society still do not have opportunities? Why is there still 78 000 people with disabilities outside the workplace? It has even gone the wrong way: from 2010 to 2011, there were 21,000 fewer disabled people working. This shows that the government has not done its job when it belongs to this group. The Progress Party does not accept this, and we will therefore increase our budget for this group, which we have done in the budgets over the last few years. Here again I will ask the public to lead and be a good example, which they are still not good enough. The same applies to young people falling outside education and working life. In many contexts, we have pointed out that one cannot continue to think quantitatively, but must think qualitatively, because all are different, and therefore one must have an individual approach. The progress party will end with ‘naving’, but it is important to be nuanced here. Many young people are sick. They have their big challenges, but it's important not to put everyone under any kind of pressure. We know that there are many young people who struggle with a lot, but some young people actually need a little puff. When a youth is able to play data throughout the night, not having a diagnosis or treatment, but simply wanting a break from work and school, society doesn't have to support this. Then there must be other obligations. Some activity, to get money from Nav, can be a good solution. I am aware that the law opens this, but I am more uncertain whether it is being used. That's why an illustrative is in place. I want to get into the topic of health. It's very nice that we're now getting money to rebuild the breast for women with breast cancer. It's very positive. But what worries me is whether we can put this into life. Today, when one reads the newspaper headline in Bergen's Official Journal, which is home to me from Hordaland, one sees that the operating capacity is heading downwards – completely wrong. There are lack of surgery nurses, and they say it doesn't work, the same number of trainees, when you can't keep them in the profession. Here we have a lot of work to do, not least when it's up to keeping the ones we have, but also when it's up to getting the number of those we need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2022	We have registered that the representative Kambe has sent out a message on Facebook and said that I went out of the hall because I was not interested in answering my own questions. It's very wrong. I heard very clearly what Bent Höie said in his reply. Now it's going to be at the end of a special day, that's the last day of this spring session, and things can easily be perceived as squaring, but it's not. What's reason for saying is that what Höie said was not an answer to my question. I am aware of the Right position with regard to the rule of action, but I ask: Why does the Right do not take the Right clearly away from the Party's interpretation of the rule of action? That's what I'm asking, and he doesn't answer that. Then the question is, shall it be found that they will not do so, because they are now beginning to have a drift on this question? Or is it so that there are other overriding reasons for that? What's remarkable is that no one goes up to the pulpit and says something clearly about this. I don't understand why they can't do it. I should also like to hear Solvik-Olsen's comment on this, because this is seriously about the core of the economic policy of the right-wing parties. It is not politically premature to ask for clarification. So it's not coming – not because I'm going out of the hall, but probably for other reasons. The ability to answer this more clearly than they did is still there, so that we could get this question settled in a fundamental way, now that we're going into the summer. With regard to this question that we do not see the second part of the rule of action that is linked to the wish for investment, which Bent Höie was also involved, it is also wrong. Economic developments since 2005, and before that, have been about using the economy for investment in the development of the entire welfare system, for the benefit of the whole population. When we use the economy so that we can expand the public sector, so that we can bring in 100,000 new people, it's not to employ them. It is to strengthen the well-being of society. It's a fantastic investment that, of course, is very forward-looking, and that builds up the welfare state and the good community, for the whole population. Saying that we do not see the other side of the rule of action is also a wrong statement from the right hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2033	Norway is doing well, and not least business. Many new jobs have also been created this year. Nevertheless, there is great concern, not least in view of the challenges facing the export industry, which is operating in countries with greater challenges than what we at home have seen. The same industry felt that in dialogue with them during the financial crisis, the government provided a package of measures to equipment suppliers and workshops. It is important to help keep the wheels going and lubricate the tool we have. The challenge has now emerged, especially in the wood industry, and after dialogue with this industry, we can now adopt a 100 million package of measures. kr for the industry. The focus here is on increasing research and development activity in the wood processing industry and improving the supply of wood to Norwegian enterprises. These measures are distributed within Innovation Norway, SIVA, the Norwegian Research Council and – not least – the Ministry of Agriculture. Much has been said today in terms of business development, but I think it is important to look at forestry and the challenge that lies in that part of the value chain. For the coast in particular, it is important to use the sea route. It's not always as easy to get the timber down to the road at all. But what's now being invested in is timber ports, and you add 25 million. NOK extra revised to speed this up. Coastal forest use is cheering for this effort, and they have also been found to report through SINTEF, which shows an important priority of what is needed to lift these ports and to achieve what is desired. It is important, and I also believe that the Ministry of Agriculture, at the rate they apply to this matter, will ensure that good results are seen from this already this year. Then it'll be exciting to see how in the long term you can also look at the priority ports. I guess there's 14 ports you've seen, total, so it's going to be exciting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2042	The right has understood one thing, and that is that social democratic values are what people want. We see very clearly in labour policy that the Right Party and the Progressive Party are trying to encapsulate their rhetoric with Community concepts and Community words. But the truth is that the right parties, with the Right and the Advance Party at the head, are engaged in the old-fashioned policy they have always had – privatisation and tax relief. It's pretty unclear what they really want. They are talking about moderate solutions, moderate changes, labour policy. But what's absolutely essential is that they want somewhere else than us. They have clearly stated that. This is also the case in labour policy. Community solutions do not want the Right. They want tax relief, they want a redistribution policy that is different from the one we want in the Workers' Party. They will have tax reliefs for those who have income and capital and cut into welfare schemes. I was listening to contributions from the representatives of the Progress Party here that they are betting on youth groups and on special groups – so they have twice as much cut in the welfare areas as they have in additions! It's like a person could almost believe that the Progress Party believes that young people with disabilities belong only to the group of young people with disabilities and do not work in any other system in society. They're actually also in work, they're sick and some are single-parents. In all these areas, the Progress Party has cut its budgets. We're also criticized for not bringing anything new. The opposition says it's nothing new. There is no new policy, says Right. You don't come with anything new, says the Progress Party. We deliver new things all the way. We have delivered many reforms, and now, in revision, we are signaling a new reform – the industrial damage reform. There is support for many of these reforms, but they have started somewhere. So it's not always that easy to get ownership of good things. The representative Myraune was up here talking about the OPS operation in the South. Then I can tell a story from the election campaign. I was – because the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark had boasted that it was the Right who had done this – out there and boasted that this was the Workers' Party that had been given. Then Dagrun Eriksen came on the field and said that, no, it was the Christian People's Party that had done. So here we have at least split the gains of getting that road project in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2053	It was the representative of Alf Egil Holmelid that made me extend the working year by 3 minutes. He fabricated a little bit about Right Double Communication. It is relatively easy to clarify the obvious misunderstanding. Holmelid was in the seed funds – and they adopted the seed funds. Yesterday we had a long and thorough debate on the Tool for Growth Communication, of which the Seed Funds were part. That's where the right and most of the parties have written together. It's agreed. So the right is for seed funds. In the context of the revised national budget, we have three seed funds – one more than the government has recapitalised. To clarify the misunderstanding where Holmelid accused Right of double-communing: It is such that the last seed fund has Peter Skovholt Gitmark geographically sold to Agder, which is right behind. So here we haven't double communicated, we haven't promised anyone else. We believe it is an amazing region that will accept such a tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2061	It's always exciting to listen to the representative Martin Kolberg. He often has a slightly different angle of incidence than the rest of the working party group. Because while the Labour Party's representatives have in turn gone up to the pulpit and said that the bourgeois parties are talking down Norway, Martin Kolberg could state that we have a cross-political capacity on the Stortinget to rejoice that much is going well in Norway. While Irene Johansen could establish that the bourgeois will lead Norway in a completely different direction, Martin Kolberg could state that the bourgeois parties are breaking in their criticism. What I think is perhaps the most striking thing in this revised debate is that the Workers' Party is increasingly starting to act as an opposition party – and I will be allowed to add, a rather surreal opposition party – where the most important task is to criticize others and to scare with other parties. So to Martin Kolberg's question -- he has obviously let himself be bothered that I chose to give praise to the Advance Party, rather than dissociating the Advance Party when the party went, as I see it, in the right direction. For the first time, the Progress Party was clear that there is a need for some sort of action rule. They want to spend less on operations and more on investment. But that does not mean that the Right Party and the Progress Party agree on the rule of action – just as the Workers' Party and the Center Party do not agree on the rule of action either. I am absolutely convinced that there will be a playoff from Per Olaf Lundtägen this summer that he wants to spend more money on transportation – or from the head of the Center Party, who has addressed something of the same thing as the Progress Party has done. But that doesn't make me suspect the Workers' Party to be on the run. In that question, I actually trust that the Workers' Party will stick to the rules of action. Let me also remind you that the Right in Government, together with other civil parties, has been cleared up in the Norwegian economy from 2001 to 2005. We strengthened the competitiveness of businesses, while it has been weakened every year under red-green rule. Yes, we provided a basis for growth in the private sector, which meant that the daily newspaper throughout the first page of 2005 stated that Jens Stoltenberg came to the table. In the revised national budget, the Right actually proposes using two billion oil crowns less than the government adds. We are following up what was one of the foundations of the rule of action: that oil money should increasingly build up under the growth capacity of the economy through investment in knowledge, infrastructure and growth-enhancing tax relief. There, Martin Kolberg and the Workers' Party failed, and he was unable to refute his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2076	Much of this debate has been about the framework of economic policy. I think that is very good, because the Progress Party has stated in the last few months that today's rule of action is full of holes. Many billions of dollars are spent annually on the outside of this rule, even though the government later becomes as if everything were prioritised within. We have shown that the large investment of the oil industry is not included when one sets a framework for the rest. We have asked the question: what happens to oil money if oil investments increase by 50 billion. kr more than provided? The answer is that the oil money usage will be adjusted by NOK 0. The red-green counter-arguments in this debate have been to distort the policies of the Progress Party, rather than to deal with our claims. So nothing is rejected – and that was not expected either, because everything we claim here, we have asked written questions to the Ministry of Finance and seen how a reasoning officer. Then, however, there are claims that the Progress Party has two rules of action, and Dag Ole Tegen claims that the rule has also been changed along the way. It's completely wrong. We have one rule of action. Unlike the current rule of action, the use of oil money is included in the State budget, but it is also related to an oil money use outside the State budget. In practice, when government parties give the impression that there must then be two rules of action, there is a recognition that they themselves do not have a rule for the use of oil money that goes on the outside of the state budget. Then it creates an artificial false security for economic policy, when one towards people later like everything here is being handled, while there are actually tens of billions on the outside of the state budget every year, without counting it. Then it's a better rule to say that we're counting all things, but that we're still defining things a little bit differently. We want to limit the growth of the government budget's expenditure side on consumption, but then we say that the projects that are socially profitable investments need to be implemented when that makes sense. It makes sense to try to accelerate the expansion of the intercity triangle around Oslo. Societal economic profitability will be improved by having a slightly more intense use of oil for ten years, rather than spreading it over 30 years. Then it's about what makes sense for the Norwegian economy, instead of letting a rule govern economic development, so that we actually have to outsource reasonable investments over a 30-year period, over ten years. I find it pointless when we sit here and later as it's the responsible economic policy that SAS can get billions of dollars outside of the rule of action, but once an icy airplane has a working uniform to asphalt, it creates inflation. But as long as you go in the skirt and go serving peanuts on a plane, it's not inflation. That is not the way we are going to discuss economic policy. In fact, I believe that many people in the SV and the Central Party do not understand how the rule of action works today, when they allow the Workers' Party to define how the debate should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2089	There has developed an interesting discussion about the rule of action. So far as I have read the attitude of the Progress Party and heard the spokesman for fiscal policy today, the most important concrete change in the rule of action of the Progress Party is that they transform the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency into a state limited liability company according to the Avinor model. It's a fundamentally big change that has a number of challenges in addition to the purely budgetary one. Firstly, it greatly reduces popular governance in relation to what we have today. There will be a less possibility for the Storting to use the entire country on the basis of the priorities of elected bodies under today's system, and of course this will mean that the Railway Agency and Vegvesen, as state limited liability companies, will be able to borrow the company and thus push the expenditure in these areas ahead. Overall, this is a poor solution, because what goes on rail and state roads is crucial for Norway’s appearance. That is why it is vital that it is within the political governance that we have today. But, of course, in relation to the rule of action, taking out the two key areas of society will reduce the cost of the state budget, thus providing more money within the framework of the rule of action. I have a sober analysis of why the Right Today is sitting quietly and does not say anything about this, and it is based on the fact that the Right agrees with the Advance Party on this issue – but does not want to flag its position now. When the Progress Party says that with what they do, a person can maintain an action rule, but a person changes the content so that a real person is in a completely new situation. This is a central question to clarify further in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2100	I have a few brief comments on the debate and one of the most central points raised by the representative Sanner at the end – a few minutes ago. I think you have to decide whether the Workers' Party – and the government parties – is a hidden opposition party, as Mr. Sanner points out, or whether we are defenders of it existing – that we have no good ideas, that everything is still, and that we have enough to explain and argue for what we are doing. It is quite striking – Helga Pedersen was also involved in this earlier today – that every time the government parties allow themselves to point away from what we call the teflon coating to parts of the opposition, you slip away almost anything, and all questions are pushed into the future. A realistic alternative in key economic policy areas cannot be presented. Yes, then we get angry, and then we become black-painting, and then we become the opposition party right away – I don't think that's a reasonable explanation. With regard to the central point around the rule of action, I fully agree with Per Olaf Lundtigen – not necessarily that the Right really agrees with the Advance Party, but that they have a political side and a self-interest in keeping this theme out as far as possible, for it is of course demanding to agree overnight. In the case of Solvik-Olsen, it is not I, the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, the entire economic environment in Norway and the Ministry of Finance, who have the burden of proof. The degrees are then checked in the tone – if it is parliamentary – and manage the truth, and all of us have misunderstood completely, in a country that has stood by a rule for many years, which a broad majority in the United Kingdom has stood behind. It has been followed and today has the economic results to which the country can refer. Is the rule of action full of holes? I don't want to say. But of course, that there's a lot that's inside and outside the rule of action, is true. What about investments made by individuals and enterprises in the mainland? There are hundreds of billions of dollars a year. The representative of Solvik-Olsen does not propose to regulate it at all. I almost get the impression, when I hear the representative Solvik-Olsen argue against the rule of action, that because there is so much crime in society, we should allow ourselves a little bit more. Finally, with regard to the discussion about whether or not to invest in companies, I remind you that SAS is for sale. But it's not because we don't have great-looking flight attendants and other employees in these companies. I think the representative could stop talking about some professional groups doing a good job in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2117	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice, and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2120	My debate is about oil money. So that's what the state uses inside and outside the state budget. In this way, private consumption is irrelevant, because it cannot be tapped into the oil fund. The centre party and SV have argued in many debates outside this room that we need to finance the infrastructure in a different way. That's why I'm sure this is going to happen even if the Workers' Party screams against it. But in the case of Avinor and Petoro, today they are allowed to invest at their own discretion. Of the 26 billion. kr that Petoro has to invest, has 17 billion. have never been politically treated. The fact that you have political control of all oil money usage today is wrong. The Progress Party does not say that we should take out the road and the railway and maintain the funds to use in the state budget. Of course, this reduces accordingly. What you have to do is take the road and the railways out of the state budget and make them your own companies, you have to be able to invest more than what you would have done in the state budget, because it's socio-economically profitable. But it's going to be based on orders from big business and government, not without political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2129	The President may think that ‘admission’ is a parliamentary expression, but that is not correct, because the Stortinget deals with all investment plans of given companies. - For the record. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2134	Infrastructure funding is an important topic. It is quite right that the Centre Party discusses thoroughly alternative ways of financing this that will safeguard the overall social economy. When I asked for the floor, it was because it is strong to learn that the Right fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, who is very eloquent and very committed, after repeated challenges, does not want to clarify the Right's position on this matter. This suggests that there are things that are below, that we can wait with joy – probably. I would say that it is natural to believe that the Right will land in the same position as that of the Progress Party, we know that from other political areas. It is strong that no clarification can be obtained at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2141	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. We are now dealing with cases No. 4 to 22 in total. All cases relate to the second processing of legal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2339	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2353	The case concerns third time treatment. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2361	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e2386	A total of 66 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 5 and 6, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the Right and Left proposal No. 7, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 8 and 9, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 10-13, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 14-16, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left proposals No. 17-34, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 35 and 36, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 37 and 38, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 39 to 44, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 45 and 46, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 47–49, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 50-66, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 50 – 66, from the left Proposal No. 50 sounds ‘The State budget for 2012 shall be amended as follows: 20Statsminister’s office1Driving expenditure, increased by 400 000 000 from €92 800000 to €93 200 00021Special operating expenditure, the July 22 Commission, can be transferred, increased by 5 400 000 from €12000000 to €12000000 from €17 400 00021Stats council1Operating expenditure, increased by 8 300 000 from kr 139 100 000 to kr 147 400 00024Government expenditure, increased by 2 400 000 from kr 80 80 000 from kr 80 80 8 000 to kr 83 20 000100highlights from kr 51 400 000 from kr 52 900 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by NOK 14 900 000 to kr 16 400 00061Highlights, increased by 2 400 000from kr 80 80 80000 from kr spent, increased by kr 80 80 80 8 000 to kr 83 2000000 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 4 in adult education law, the estimate of the budget for the budget for the year 2000 is reduced by 6 046 000 from NOK 161 008 000 to NOK 154 962 00075Private schools for disabled students, the estimate of the budget, increased by 10 314 000 from NOK 184 720 000 to NOK 195 034 000230Competition centres for special education1operational expenditure, increased by 27 767 000 from NOK 655 894 000 to NOK 628 127 000 from NOK 6 400 000 to NOK 19 400 0002252EU programmes for the lifetime of learning70Supplemented, reduced by 25 890 000 from NOK 210 207 000 to NOK 184 317 000255Additions for peace and human rights centres etc.71Fabulities of 47 000 to NOK 19 400 000 can be added to the budget for the budget for the year 2000 to NOK 157 000 for the budget for the year 2000 to NOK 1000 for the budget for the year 2000 to 20000 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 130 600 000 from NOK 9 738 170 000 to NOK 9 868 77000021Special operating expenditure, increased by 4 700 000 from NOK 193 485000 to NOK 198 185 00072 Contribution to the Mosaic religious community, granted by 7 200 000441Oslo Police District1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 440 item 1, reduced by 26 300000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000 from €2 117 30 000from €2 090 99 2 000 445 000from €1 800 000 from €570 065 000 from €57 065 000 from €571 6 000 000 from €6 6 647 000 from €20 647 000 to €20 647 000 from €2 647 000 from €2 770 000 from €370 000 from €10 10 385 000 from €269 600 000 from €2 626 340 000 from €2 40 000 from €2 496 000 from €2 496 000 from €2 996 50 000 from €2 996 50 000 from €3 30 000 from €2 330 000 from €330 30 30 000 from €370 070 000 from €296 50 000 from €296 000 from €296 000 from €2 096 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 000 from € from € from €2 096 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 000 from € from € 821 Item 60, increased by 3 100 000 from €6 526 000 to €9 626 00075Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad, can be transferred, increased by 3 738 000 from €14 415 000 to €18 153 000491Exchange of assets1Operating expenditure, increased by 15 000 000 from €249 032 000 to €264 032 000500Ministry of Commerce and Regional Affairs1Operating expenditure, increased by 500 000 from €152 890 000 to €153 390 0005551Regional development and innovation60Addition to county councils for regional development, reduced by 75 000 000 from €1,500 950 000 to €1,425 950 000552National cooperation for regional development72National regional development measures, can be transferred, reduced by 500 000 from €484 100000 to NOK 483 600 571Rame grants to municipalities60Population grants, increased by NOK275 950 000 from NOK10 000 from €10 526 000 from €10 573 000 from €10 573 000 from €10. 572.140 000, increased by 14000000.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 2429 item 70, granted by 40 000 00074 Arrangement of transitional arrangements for CIRR-qualified loans, granted by 80 000 00075 Expenditure on the acquisition of loans, granted by 9 000 0001020Labour Research Institute1Operating expenditure, increased by 12 000 000 from NOK 338 700 000 to NOK 350 700 0001050Various fishing purposes72Aids for the safety training of fishermen, increased by 1 200 000 from NOK 13 700 000 to NOK 14 900 0001062Coastal expenditure, usable under item 45, increased by 30 000 000 from NOK 1 499 703 000 to NOK 1 529 703 0001070Samfunknet Jan Mayen and Loran-C1Operating expenditure, increased by 223 000 from NOK 43 646 000 to NOK 45 969 0001112Knowledge development and preparedness, etc. in the food field51Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, Bioforsk, reduced by 20 000 from 63 760 000 to €63 740 00096 Shares in Rogaland Agricultural partner SA, granted by 20 0001115Matthewages22Regulation premium for municipal and county pension funds, increased by 760000 from €725000 to €7 9850001143Member States' agricultural administration, operational expenditure, reduced by 220 000 from NOK 174 975 000 to NOK 45 000, can be transferred, increased by 1 000 000 from €6 958 000 to €7 958 000 to €7 958 000.82Radioactivity measures, can be transferred, reduced by 1 000 000 to €150 000 from €1 500 to €1148Natural damage - substitutes71 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1311 entry 71, reduced by 30000000 from 300000 to 300000 from 100 000 from NOK 705 600 000 to NOK 675 600 000 from the roads23Operation and maintenance of highways, road safety and vehicle surveillance etc. can be transferred, can be used under entry 29, entry 30, entry 31 and entry 72, increased by 78 700 000 from NOK 7 437 400000 to NOK 7 516 10000029Availability for OPS projects, can be transferred, can be used under item 23 and item 30, can be used under budget heading 23 000 000, can be reduced by 20 000 from NOK 434 000 to NOK 414 000 000, can be used under item 23, item 31 and item 72, can be increased by 144 000 000 from € from € 5 6 10 to 400 000 € to NOK 575 000 from NOK 575 000 from transport measures in the counties, can be used under budgets can be spent, can be used under budgets from NOK 50 000 to NOK 50 000 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, entry 45, increased by 45 200 000 from 922 061000 to 967 261 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred under cover. 1761 Item 45, increased by 60 018 000from 100 000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 1000 to 1000 from 2000 to 1000 from 1000 from 2000 to 1000 from 1000 from 2000 to 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] in the course of work and education, increased by 10000000from €170000000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000 from €300,000from €300,000 from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €30 to NOK300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €30 to NOK300,000 from €300,000 from €30 to NOK 303030 to NOK300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €30 to €30 to €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 to NOK 3030 to NOK 3030 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € Add from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € Add from € Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add Add to € 3030 3030 3030asse [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] from the State Financial Fund, reduced by 8 000 000 000 from NOK 8 000 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from the State pension fund80 from interest, reduced by 4 000 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 from 30 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 to 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK from NOK from Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the national budget in 2013 with a case that ensures that Norway takes greater responsibility for international refugee work by increasing the quota for refugees by 500.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for a guided closure of the fur animal industry in Norway.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds ‘As from 1 July 2012, the Decision of the Stortinge of 24 November 2011 on value added tax is amended as follows: Section 3 is replaced by the following: § 3 Reduced rate by 16 pst. VAT is equal to 16 per cent of turnover, withdrawals and imports of food referred to in the VAT Act § 5-2. Section 4 the following new second paragraph is added: VAT is equal to 8 per cent of turnover, withdrawals and imports of newspapers as referred to in the VAT Act § 5-12.» Proposal No. 54 sounds: «The government asks the government to increase the duty-free import limit of goods from abroad to NOK 1000, and to establish an arrangement that regularly adjusts the amount with regard to price growth.» Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2012, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 24 November 2011 on a levy on alcohol is amended as follows: Section 1 the following new second paragraph is added: From 1 July 2012, a levy shall be paid to the treasury on the importation and domestic production of the following goods with the following amounts: Alcoholic drinkVolume percentage of alcoholKrt.o.m. 0,7 is charged according to the rules for non-alcoholic beverages.Brenner wine-based over 0,77,32 per. volume percentage and litreOther than 0,7 t.o.b. 2,73.00 per month. liters above 2,7 up to and including 3,711,31 per month. liters above 3,7 up to and including 4.719.59 p.m. liters above 4,7 up to and including 223.98 p.m. % vol. and litreEthanol for technical uses greater than 0,7 % as for alcoholic beverages’» Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the immediate termination of the duty-free arrangements for tobacco products.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2012, the decision of the Stortinge of 24 November 2011 on the excise duty on fuel shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 1, first paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: 1st petrol 2nd sulphur-free petrol NOK 5,19, 3rd low sulphur petrol NOK 5,23, 4th second petrol: NOK 5,23.» [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] Proposal No. 58 reads: ‘From 1 July 2012, the decision of the Stortinget of 24 November 2011 on the user charge for automotive diesel is amended as follows: Paragraph 1, first paragraph, point (b) is replaced by the following: b) oil for the propulsion of the motor vehicle kr 4,18, 2. low-sulphurised mineral oil kr 4,23, 3. other mineral oil: kr 4,23, 4. biodiesel: kr 0.» [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] Proposal No. 59 reads: ‘From 1 July 2012, the decision of the Stortinget of 24 November 2011 on the base charge for mineral oil, etc. is amended as follows: \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Paragraph 1, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2012, Law 19 May 1933 provides that: 11 on excise duties are paid to the State Treasury upon introduction and domestic production of mineral oil at NOK 1.999 per person. litre.’» Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2012, the decision of the Stortinge of 24 November 2011 on the CO2 tax is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 1 is replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2012, Law 19 May 1933 provides that: 11 on excise duties, CO2 tax is paid to the treasury on imports and domestic production of the following mineral products with the following amounts: (a) mineral oil at NOK 0.70 per year. litre of mineral oil for domestic quota aviation: kr 0,52 per. litres of other domestic aviation and non-commercial private flights: NOK 0,80 per. litres for the wood processing industry, the herring and fishmeal industries: DKK 0.41 per year; litre (b) petrol: NOK 0,99 per tonne. litre (c) natural gas: DKK 0,55 per year; Sm3 c) LPG: NOK 077 per year. litre» Proposal No 61 sounds: [[(general rate):]] ‘As from 1 July 2012, the Decision of the Stortinge Decision of 24 November 2011 fixing fees, etc. is amended as follows: to social security for 2012: Employers’ fee Paragraphs 4 and 5 are replaced by the following: § 4 Special rules on apprentices For remuneration and other remuneration for work and employment in and outside employment relationships such as the employer's obligations to report to apprentices and employees after 1.7.2012, no employer's fee shall be calculated in any zone. § 5 Special rules for start-ups For wages and salaries and other compensation for work and duties in and out of employment as an employer's obligation to report, for enterprises which started after 1.7.2012 with up to 5 employees, half of the employer's contribution is calculated in all zones for up to three years after the first registration of the enterprise. Original § 4 becomes § 6 etc.» Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is requesting, at the latest, from the government budget for 2013, a tax deduction scheme for energy efficiency measures in private buildings of up to SEK 50000.’;» [[material and labour costs]] Proposal No. 63 sounds: «The government is asking the government to raise the wage-earning obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to $8,000 per year. employed.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2013, to investigate and promote proposals for a 20 per cent tax deduction for personal, permanent investments in companies of up to SEK 500000.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget, to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for a legislative amendment so that self-employed persons can use minimum deductions in the same way as private individuals.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget, at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget, with a legislative proposal on the introduction of rules on the provision of a fund scheme for individual enterprises in accordance with the Swedish system of ‘expansion funds’.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e12350	It is voted on the 47-49 proposals, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2012 shall be amended as follows: The office of the Minister of State1Operational expenditure, increased by 400000 000 from 92 800 000 to €93 200 00021Special operating expenditure, may be transferred, increased by 5 400 000 from €12000000 to €12000000 from €17 40 00021State Council1Operating expenditure, increased by 8 300 000 from €14 900 000 to €14 400 000 to €14 400 00024Government expenditure, increased by 2 400 000 from €80 000 from €80 80000 to €83 20 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €14 400 000 to €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10, from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €10 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €30 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €10, from €10, from €10 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 to €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from €30 from € worth from €30 from € [[New]] [[New]] 4 in the Adult Education Act, estimate appropriations for the total amount of NOK 667 000 for the total budget for the total amount of appropriations for the total amount of appropriations for the total amount of appropriations for the total amount of appropriations entered in the statement of revenue are entered in Item 6 046 000 from NOK 16 008 000 to NOK 154 962 00075Private schools for pupils with disabilities, the estimated amount of appropriations to be increased by 10 314 000 from EUR 184 0 000 to EUR 254 000. [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by145 600 000 from NOK 9 738 170 000 to NOK 9 883 77000021Special operating expenditure, increased by 4 700 000 from NOK 193 485000 to NOK 198 185 00072 Contribution to the Mosaic religious community, granted by 10 200 000441Oslo Police District1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 440 item 1, reduced by 56 300000from €91 035 000from €91 088 000from €91 088 000from €2 117 0 000from €2 060 0 000from €42 0 000from NOK 142 356 000 to NOK 146 356 000 from NOK 10 385 000 from NOK 10 385 000 to NOK 20 265 000 455 from NOK 570 065 000 to NOK 147 000 from NOK 6 647 000 to NOK 20 647 000 from €20 6 6 47 000 to NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 070 000 from NOK 370 000 from NOK 10 385 000 from NOK 269 600 000 from NOK 526 340 00045 from NOK 14 000 from NOK 6 6 6 6 6 47 000 from NOK 20 647 000 from NOK 647 000 from NOK 370 000 from NOK 370 000 from NOK 370 000 from NOK 370 000 from NOK 370 000 from NOK 296 000 from NOK 429 99 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 572. post 64, increased by 14000000budgets2 000 000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 500000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 180000budgets2 180000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets,2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 400000s2 400000s2 400000s2 400000budgets2 400000budgets2 10400000budgets2 10400000budgets2 400000budgets2 10400000budgets2 10400000budgets2 400000budgets2anys2anys2anys2 403030303030303030303030,2 4030,44030s2 4030s2 4030s4400000budgets230s2 4030s2anys2anys2anys2anys2 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 855 item 1, increased by 10000000 from NOK 102 278 000 to NOK 112 278 000900Industry and trade department1Industry expenditure, increased by 7 000 000 from NOK 185 588 000 to NOK 192 588 00021Special operating expenditure, carried over, reduced by 1 500 000 from NOK 68 100000 to NOK 66 600 00022Industry expenditure, granted by 6 500 00030 Environmental measures Sleep, granted by 5 000 00074 Grants to the National Centre for Composite Competence, granted by 1 500 000904Indebtedness granted by 1 500 000 to EUR 330 000Indebtedness grant to EUR 330 000Indebtedness grant to EUR 330 000Indebtedness can be transferred, increased by 35 500 000 from DKK 116 000 to EUR 130 000 to EUR 130 000 from EUR 130 000 from EUR from EUR 130 000 from EUR 130 000 from EUR 130 000 from EUR from EUR 130 000 from EUR 130 000 from EUR from EUR 130 000 from EUR from EUR 130 000 from EUR from EUR 130 000 from EUR from EUR to EUR 130 000 from EUR 130 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR 130 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EURfrom 2429 Item 70, granted by 40 000 00074 Arrangement of transitional arrangements for CIRR-qualified loans, is granted at 80 000 00075 Expenditure on borrowing, granted by 9 000 0001020The Swedish Research Institute1Operating expenditure, increased by 12 000 000 from NOK 338 700 000 to NOK 350 700 0001050Various fishing purposes72Addition to the safety training of fishermen, increased by 1 200 000 from NOK 13 700 000 to NOK 14 900 0001062Coastal expenditure, can be used under item 45, increased by 30 000 000 from NOK 1 499 703 000 to NOK 1 529 703 00021Special operating expenditure, can be carried over, can be used under item 1, reduced by 30 000 000 from NOK 117 900 000 to NOK 87 900 0001070Samfunnet Jan Mayen and Loran-C1Operating expenditure, increased by 2 323 000 from NOK 43 646 000 to NOK 969 00012Kunship Instrumention and development. in the food field51Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, Bioforsk, reduced by 20 000 from 63 760 000 to SEK 63 740 00096 Shares in Rogaland Agricultural party SA, granted by 20 0001115Manufacturing supervision22Regulation premium for municipal and county pension funds, increased by 7 60 000 from NOK 7 225000 to NOK 7 985 0001143Member States' agricultural management1Operating expenditure, reduced by 220 000 from NOK 174 995000 to NOK 174 775 0001147Reindustry management45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, increased by 1 000 000 000 from NOK 6 958 000 to NOK 7 958 00082Radio fund activity measures, can be transferred, reduced by 1 000 000 to NOK 1 500 000 from NOK 1 500 000 from EUR - natural damage, damages, overburdens, increased by 100 000 from NOK 7 958 000 to NOK 7 958 000 000 from NOK 3 000 from NOK 4 3 000 from EUR from EUR from NOK 3 000 to EUR from NOK 3 from EUR from NOK 3 from NOK 3 from EUR from EUR from NOK 1 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from NOK 1 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1311 mail 71, reduced by 30 000 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €40 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 per hour from €30 per hour from €30 per hour from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 per hour from €30 per hour from €30 per hour from €30 per hour from €30 per hour from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 per hour from €30 from €30 from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € per hour from € per hour from € per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € 30 per hour from € per hour from € to € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, entry 45, increased by 45 200 000 from 922 061000 to 967 261 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred under cover. 1761 Item 45, increased by 60 018 000$ 000$ 000$ 000$ 10000000$ 8 092 32 000$ 000$ 8 152 342 000$ 1761 New fighters with base solution45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, allocated under 700 000$ 000$ 1790 000$ 1790 000$ 4 024 000from € 393 385000 to € 997 409 000$ 1791 000$ 1 234 320 000$ 1 193 624 000$ 17000 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] from the State Financial Fund, reduced by 8 000 000 000 from NOK 8 000 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from the State pension fund80 from interest, reduced by 4 000 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 from 30 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 to 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK from NOK from Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘Decision of 24 November 2011 of the Storting on excise duties to the State Treasury for the 2012 Budgetary Mine on the levy on alcohol is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e21210	It is voted on by proposals 45 and 46, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a case to extend the study aid to 11 months.’ Proposal No. 46 reads: ‘The government asks the government to make the system of graded sick leave for students and students permanent and more flexible from 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e21232	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39 to 44, from the right. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2012 shall be amended as follows: 20Ministry of State1Operating costs, increased by 5 400 000 from NOK 12000000 to NOK 17 400 00021Council of State1Operating expenditure, increased by 5 400 000 from NOK 139 100 000 to NOK 144 500 00024Administrative expenditure, increased by 1 500 000 from NOK 51 400 000 to NOK 52 900 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by 1 500 000 from NOK 14 900 000 to NOK 16 400 00061High cost, increased by 2 400 000 from NOK 80 80 80000 to NOK 83 208 000100High cost of operating, increased by 2 400 000 from NOK 80 80 8 000 to NOK 80 000100High cost of operating, increased by the administrative expenditure of the State of operation, can be increased by 150 000 from the budget of the State of the State of the State of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of [[New]] 4 in adult training law, the estimate of the budget will be reduced by 6 046 000 from NOK 161 008 000 to NOK 154 962 00075Private university schools for disabled students, the estimate will be increased by 10 314 000 from NOK 184 720 000 to NOK 195 034 000230Competition centres for special education1Activity costs reduced by 27 767 000 from NOK 655 894 000 to NOK 628 000 from NOK 6 400000 to NOK 9 400 000 from NOK 19 400 000 to NOK 19 400 0002 000 from the EU programme for lifelong learning70Spends will be reduced by 2590 000 to NOK 10 350 00064Additional appropriations for growth training70Additional appropriations for study-related, spent by € 9 400000 to NOK 19 400 000 from € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 250 600 000 from NOK 9 738 170 000 to NOK 9 988 77000021Special operating expenditure, increased by 4 700 000 from NOK 193 485000 to NOK 198 185 00072 Contribution to the Mosaic religious community, granted by 7 200 000441Oslo Police District1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 440 item 1, reduced by 26 300000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000from €93 30 000 from €2 117 30 000from €2 090 99 2 000 445 000from €1 800 000 from €570 065 000 from €57 065 000 from €571 6 000 000 from €6 6 647 000 from €20 647 000 to €20 647 000 from €2 647 000 from €2 770 000 from €370 000 from €10 10 385 000 from €20 26 585 000 from €45 000 from €45 000 from € from €14 6 6 6 647 000 from €20 647 000 from €20 0 747 000 from €2 770 000 from €2 770 000 from €2 770 000 from €269 50 000 from €296 50 000 from €2 078 500 from €2 096 30 30 30 000 from €29 €2 096 30 30 30 30 000 from €29 €29 572 entry 64, increased by145000000budgets2250 000budgets2500 000budgets250 000budgets250 000budgets250 000budgets250 000budgets2500 000budgets2500 000budgets250 000budgets250 000budgets250 000budgets250 000budgets2500budgets250 000budgets250 000budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets21000budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets21000budgets21000budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500budgets2500breadts21000s2500budgets2500budgets21000s2500 000budgets2500s2500budgets21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000breadts21000s2500breadts21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000breadts2500breadts21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s2500breadts2500breadts2500breadts2500breadts2500breadts21000s21000s21000s2500breadts21000s21000s250s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s21000s2500 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 2429 Item 70, granted by 40 000 00074 Arrangement of transitional arrangements for CIRR-qualified loans, is granted at 80 000 00075 Expenditure on borrowing, granted by 9 000 0001020The Swedish Research Institute1Operating expenditure, increased by 12 000 000 from NOK 338 700 000 to NOK 350 700 0001050Various fishing purposes72Addition to the safety training of fishermen, increased by 1 200 000 from NOK 13 700 000 to NOK 14 900 0001062Coastal expenditure, can be used under item 45, increased by 30 000 000 from NOK 1 499 703 000 to NOK 1 529 703 00021Special operating expenditure, can be carried over, can be used under item 1, reduced by 30 000 000 from NOK 117 900 000 to NOK 87 900 0001070Samfunnet Jan Mayen and Loran-C1Operating expenditure, increased by 2 323 000 from NOK 43 646 000 to NOK 969 00012Kunship Instrumention and development. in the food field51Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, Bioforsk, reduced by 20 000 from 63 760 000 to SEK 63 740 00096 Shares in Rogaland Agricultural party SA, granted by 20 0001115Matthewages22Regulation premium for municipal and county pension funds, increased by 760000 from NOK 7 225000 to NOK 7 9850001143States Agricultural administration1 958 000budget spent1 998 000budget expenditure, reduced by 10 220 000 from NOK 174 995 000 to NOK 1 500 0001147Reindustry management45Bigger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred by 1 000 000 000 from NOK 6 958 000 to NOK 7 958 000budgets to NOK 7 958 000budgets to EUR 3 000budget actions, can be transferred, reduced by 1 000budget damage – substitutes71 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1311 entry 71, reduced by 30000000 from 300000 to 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 to 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 3030 from 3030 from 3030 from 3030 from 3030 from 300000 from 3030 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 300000 from 3030 from 3030 from 3030 from 3030 from 3030 from 3030 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, entry 45, increased by 45 200 000 from 922 061000 to 967 261 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred under cover. 1761 Item 45, increased by 60 018 000from 1000 to 1000 000from NOK 8 092 32 000from NOK 8 152 342 0001761New fighter aircraft with base solution45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, allocated to 1000 000 from 700 000 000 to 1790 000 from NOK 393 385 000 to NOK 997 409 0001791Recreational helicopter service1Operational costs, increased by 60 440 000 from NOK 584 577 0001792Norwegian forces, increased by 40 696 000 from NOK 1 234 320 000 to NOK 1 193 624 0001795 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] from the State Financial Fund, reduced by 8 000 000 000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 500000 from the State pension fund to NOK 500000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 to 000 from NOK from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK from Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The size consents to a saving of 350 million. SEK of operating expenditure of departments and agencies [[items 1 to 29, excluding entry 24]] Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2012, the decision of the Grand Duchy on the excise duty on fuel shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e30534	It is voted on by proposals 37 and 38, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of standard health notification periods according to the Swedish model.’ Proposal No. 38 reads: ‘From 1 July 2012, Decision of the Stortinge is amended as follows: 24 November 2011 on the levy on tobacco products, etc. for the 2012 budget: the first paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following: As of 1 July 2012, Law 19 May 1933 provides that: 11 on excise duties paid to the central bank on imports and domestic production of the following goods with the following amounts: ProductCronesSigares2.43per. grams of the net weight of the packageCigarettes2,43pr. smoking tobacco, minced tobacco, raw tobacco in consumer-packaging2,43pr. grams of the net mass of the packageScratted tobacco0,98per. gram of net mass of the packageSnus0,98per. grams of the net weight of the gasket Cigarette paper and cigarette sleeves,0,369pr. paragraph.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e30616	It is voted on by proposals 35 and 36, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to facilitate the payment of income-rated parental benefit in kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government requests the continuation of the cash support scheme for 2-year-olds’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e30638	There is a vote on the proposals from 17 to 34, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2012 shall be amended as follows: The office of the Minister of State1Operational expenditure, increased by 400000 000 from 92 800 000 to €93 200 00021Special operating expenditure, may be transferred, increased by 5 400 000 from €12000000 to €12000000 from €17 40 00021State Council1Operating expenditure, increased by 8 300 000 from €14 900 000 to €14 400 000 to €14 400 00024Government expenditure, increased by 2 400 000 from €80 000 from €80 80000 to €83 20 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €14 400 000 to €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10, from €10 000 from €10 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €10 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €30 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €10, from €10, from €10 000 from €10, from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 to €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from €30 from € worth from €30 from € [[New]] 4 in the Adult Education Act, estimate appropriations for cannabis21687000budget, increased by 10 314 000budget from 184 720 000budget to 195 008 000budgets1operational expenditure, reduced by 27 767 000budgets from 655 894 000budgets, reduced by 25 890 000budgets, from 210 207 000budgets to 147 000budgets64budgets, up by 10 000budgets, up to 10 000budgets, up to 10 000budgets, up from 9 400 000budgets, up to 10 000budgets, up to 10 000budgets, up to 10 000budgets, up to 15 65 000budgets, down to 690 000budgets, down to 7000000budgets, down to 427 000budgets, down to 427 000budgets, down to 427 000budgets, up to 427 000budgets from 197 000budgets, up to 416 000budgets from 616 000budgets from 296 000budgets, up to 296 000budgets, up to 296 000budgets from 296 000budgets, up to 616188 to 61618 to 296 000budgets from 296 to 629 to 296 to 296 to 629, up to 629, up to 308 to 308 to 308 to 309 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 225 600 000 from NOK 9 738 170 000 to NOK 9 963 77000021Special operating expenditure, increased by 4 700 000 from NOK 193 485000 to NOK 198 185 00072 Contribution to the Mosaic religious community, granted by 7 200 000441Oslo Police District1Operating expenditure, may be used under Chapter. 440 entry 1, reduced by 6 300 000from €92.000 from €92.000 from €92.000 from €92.000 from €42.000 from €42.50 from €42.50 to €42.30 000 from €15.30 000 from €30.30 000 from €300,000 from €570 000 from €570 065 000 to €571.8 million from €781.294 000 to €786 299 000 from €786 299 000 to €45.30 000 from €30.30 000 from €30.30 000 from €30.30 000 from €20 647 000 to €30.30 000 from €30.30 000 from €30.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30 000 from €29.30.30 to €29.30.3030.30.30 to €29.29.30 to €29.30.30.30.29.29.29.29.30 to €29.30 to €29.30 to €29.30 to €29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.30 to €29.30 to €29.30 to €29.29.30 to €29.29.29.30 to €29.30 to €29.30 to €29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29 to €29.29 to €29 to €29.29 to €29 to €29 to €29 to €29 to €29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29.29. [[New]] [[New]] 572 entry 64, increased by145 000 000budgets, spent from 580000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 100000budgets, 400000budgets, 400000budgets from 546 000budgets, 200000budgets, 200000budgets, 200000budgets, 200000budgets, 200000budgets, 200000budgets, 200000budgets, 200000budgets, 20275ts, 20275ts from 200000budgets, 20250000budgets, 250000budgets, 250000budgets, 203030300000budgets, 250000budgets, 2030, 20, 20, 203030303030303030303030, 2500budgets from 20, 60ts, 1030, 1030, 1030, 1030, 1030, 1030, 100000budgets from 2500budgets from 2500budgets from 20, 100000budgets from 120000budgets from 120000budgets from 2030 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 2429 Item 70, granted by 40 000 00074 Arrangement of transitional arrangements for CIRR-qualified loans, granted by 80 000 00075 Expenditure on borrowing, granted by 9 000 0001020Havre Research Institute1Operating expenditure, increased by 12 000 000 from NOK 338 700 000 to NOK 350 700 0001050Various fishing purposes72Additional to safety training for fishermen, increased by 1 200 000 from NOK 13 700 000 to NOK 14 900 0001062Coastal expenditure, usable under item 45, increased by 30 000 000 from NOK 1 499 703 000 to NOK 1 529 703 00021Special operating expenditure, carried over, can be used under item 1, reduced by 30 000 000 from DKK 117 900 000 to NOK 87 900 00070Additional rescue company, increased by 10 300 000 from NOK 54 400 000 to NOK 64 700 0001070Samfunnet Janen and Loran-C1 in the food field51Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, Bioforsk, reduced by 20 000 from 63 760 000 to SEK 63 740 00096 Shares in Rogaland Agricultural party SA, granted by 20 0001115Manufacturing supervision22Regulation premium for municipal and county pension funds, increased by 7 60 000 from NOK 7 225000 to NOK 7 985 0001143Member States' agricultural management1Operating expenditure, reduced by 220 000 from NOK 174 995000 to NOK 174 775 0001147Reindustry management45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, increased by 1 000 000 000 from NOK 6 958 000 to NOK 7 958 00082Radio fund activity measures, can be transferred, reduced by 1 000 000 to NOK 1 500 000 to NOK 1 500 000 from NOK 1 500 000 from natural damage, damages, overburdens, increased by 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 to NOK 7 958 000 from NOK 3 000from to NOK 3 7 9 7 9 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 to 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 to 7 000 from 7 to 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 to 7 to 7 to 7 to 7 to 7 to 10 to 10 to 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 to 10 to 10 to 10 from 10 from 7 to 10 to 10 from 7 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 000 from 7 0 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 000 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 0 from 7 to 10 from 7 to 10 to 10 to 10 to 10 to [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1311 entry 71, reduced by 30000000from 600 000budgets to 30000000budgets to 50000000budgets to 50000000budgets to 50000000budgets to 50000000budgets to 50000000budgets to 675 600 000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 500000budgets to 300000budgets to 300000budgets to 500000budgets to 500000budgets to 400000budgets to 796 000budgets to 100 000budgets to 300000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 400000budgets to 100 000budgets to 600 500budgets to 500budgets to 300000budgets to 500000budgets to 400000budgets to 500000budgets to 500000budgets from 500000budgets to 500000budgets from 500000budgets to 3030 to 500000budgets to 500000budgets from 3030 to 3030 to 500000budgets to 3030 to 3030 to 500000breadts from 500000budgets to 500000budgets to 500000budgets to 3030 to 30 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, entry 45, increased by 45 200 000 from 922 061000 to 967 261 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred under cover. 1761 Item 45, increased by 60 018 000from 1000 to 100 000from NOK 8 092 32 000from NOK 8 152 342 0001761New fighter aircraft with base solution45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, allocated to 1000 000 from 700 000 000 to 1790 000 from NOK 393 385 000 to NOK 997 409 0001791Recreational helicopter service1Operational costs, increased by 60 440 000 from NOK 584 577 0001792Norwegian forces, increased by 40 696 000 from NOK 1 234 320 000 to NOK 1 193 624 0001795governance can be spent, cultural and non-profit spending can be increased by 13 800 000 from NOK 24000 to NOK [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] in the course of work and education, increased by 10 000 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 from NOK 30 from NOK 50 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 50 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] from the State Financial Fund, reduced by 8 000 000 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from the State pension fund80interests, reduced by 44 000 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 76 000 from NOK 76 000 to NOK 056 15 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 30 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK from NOK from NOK 30 from NOK from NOK 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK from NOK from NOK 30 000 from NOK from NOK 30 from NOK 1000 from EUR from NOK from EUR from NOK 1000 from NOK 30 000 from EUR from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 from 30 from NOK 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from EUR from 30 to 000 from 30 to 000 from 1000 from 30 000 from EUR from 30 to 000 from EUR from 30 from 30 from NOK from NOK from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from EUR from NOK from 30 000 from 30 000 from NOK from NOK from NOK from 30 000 from 30 to 000 from 30 000 from 30 to 30 to 000 from 30 to 000 from 30 000 from NOK from 30 to 000 from 30 000 from 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to30 Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests until further notice to stop the process of moving the Norwegian Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute until the total costs of both moving to Ås and upgrading the Adamstuen have been submitted to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘Under the authority to exceed the allocated appropriations V, the following shall be amended:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e39423	There is a vote on the proposals 14-16, from the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to change the minimum working time reduction in paragraphs 6 to 6 of the daily allowance regulation in order to maintain the daily allowance rights from 40 per cent to 20 per cent.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rules on rolling leave so that enterprises with agreement between employees and employers pay only the employer’s period for the number of posts actually permitted.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up the new pilot scheme of redundancy payments as a wage subsidy in such a way that the grant follows the individual user and is made available to all enterprises regardless of whether the enterprise is an IA enterprise or not.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e39450	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–13, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in connection with the treatment of the State budget for 2013 with an overview of the actual need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation of the country’s church buildings.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit the necessary proposals to form the basis for a step-up plan for the municipalities in order to register the maintenance run in order to ensure the health, environment and safety of the use of these buildings.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose measures to combat the widespread and growing hatred of the Jews in Norway.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a national holocaust day on 26 November.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e39483	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left. Proposal No. 8 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in connection with the treatment of the 2013 State budget, with an overview of the actual need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation of the municipalities’ school and swimming facilities.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit the necessary proposals to form the basis for a step-up plan for the municipalities in order to record the maintenance run in order to ensure the health, environment and safety of the use of these facilities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e39505	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the government asks for the 2013 government budget to present a mechanism within the EU State Aid Guidelines for the compensation of selected sectors of indirect quota costs in Norway in order to avoid carbon leakage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e39522	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked by the government through its ownership of Statskog SF to oblige the company to intensify the arrears of the forest properties and other real estate owned by the State Forest SF today.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce the Unremunerated Research Effort Scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e39544	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to raise the limit for own-executed and externally purchased R & D respectively. Eight and twelve million. crowns, and the establishment of an indexation scheme for those amounts each year.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate how the Tax Fund Scheme can be set up in order to contribute better to research and development also for larger enterprises.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the Tax Funding Scheme by removing the rule of a maximum hourly rate of 530 kroner.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the Tax Find Scheme by removing the rule that staff and indirect costs limit the number of hours for its own employees to a maximum of 1850 hours per year. years.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e39576	Now, when we're going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, the party groups are set to refrain from following up their primary positions, so that we let go of a split and, to some extent, complicated voting. It's under the clear assumption that it's not used against them on a later occasion. We then vote collectively on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e49679	Subsequent cases, No. 4–22, is the second reading of legislative decisions. The President proposes that matters be dealt with collectively, and expects to have the House's approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comments on any of the cases, and the Bill of the Storting has therefore been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e49689	Here, for the first time, we have a legal case for the third time. At the second reading of the case, on 11 June, it was decided that the legislative decision from the first reading was not acceptable, with the remark that the legislative proposal should be dismissed. The reason for that decision is that the Stortinge has had to deal with the repeal of a law that has already been repealed. This must then be corrected by the Stortinget laying down the bill at the third reading, and we vote for the remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-15.ana.ud2276e49809	Then we're about to finish the last meeting in the spring session. The growing session we are now in the process of getting behind us has also included major and important issues. This assembly has taken decisions on matters that are going to be in history. We have changed the Constitution and other laws regarding the relationship between state and church. We have made the historically largest investments that have been decided to make, in the Norwegian defence. And not many days ago, we dealt with the difficult climate issue in a way that made it a broad basis for the reconciliation that was agreed here. They are all decisions, together with many others, which will have a major impact on the future of Norway. Now, when Stortinget doesn't take vacations, as many think, but ends with meetings in plenary, we know that many are going to get undeserved criticism for a well-deserved vacation. There are about 30 international meetings to be held with the participation of big business representatives before we put our next meeting here in the hall. I have seen that it is approx. 20 committee missions intended to be carried out in the country and abroad. In addition, we know that there's going to be a lot of local involvement. Many company visits are going to take place, have political activity locally, and do the part of the job that is important for a growth representative, namely to stay informed about the importance of matters in the practical everyday life. I hope, however, that the representatives of Storting will have the opportunity to take some vacation, and I will end with the wish for a good job, because there is a lot to do before we gather again, and I hope not least that everyone will have a good holiday. Thank you for your cooperation! Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one has done so, and the meeting has been cancelled.
