ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e71	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. and Councillor Eivind Bolle are dead, almost 89 years old. Eivind Bolle was a working party politician, an organisational man, a municipal politician, a rapporteur, a county representative, a staging representative and a fisheries minister. Norway and Norwegian labour movement have lost one of the significant politicians of the post-war period. Eivind Bolle set out to be a fisheries minister for eight years, and he provided the basis for a modern, sustainable fisheries policy. 15 years old he started out as a shark fisherman. He was fishing from the home of Mortsund in Lofoten. After many years of trust in various organisations and as rapporteur he was elected to the Stortinget for Nordland in 1973. Afterwards he became the Minister of Fisheries in Trygve Bratteli's government. The new Minister for Fisheries quickly took a central role in the government’s work. He continued as Minister of Fisheries both in Odvar Nordli's Government and in Gro Harlem Brundtland's first government. Eivind Bolle managed to get on the phone with the fishing authorities both in the East and West. He was Minister of Fisheries when Norway introduced the 200-mile economic son in 1977. Norway thus became a major and important player on the sea and on the pedestal. It was also in his time that Minister of Fisheries Norway got the fisheries agreements with the Soviet Union, in the middle of the cold war. Eivind Bolle stood for a strict and sustainable fisheries policy. He helped lay the foundation for the growth industry that became one of Norway’s largest export industries in the 1990s. Of the twelve years he was elected to the Stortinget, he was Minister of Fisheries for eight. From his resignation as Minister of Fisheries in October 1981 until he left the Storting in 1985, he was a member of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. When he joined the national policy, he went back to the fishing boat, but continued his political activity. He was, among other things, Director of the Nordland Arbeiderparti during the period 1984-88. Many will miss the gentleman Eivind Bolle. We remember Eivind Bolle with gratitude and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e101	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Allan Johansen, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: – From the Group of the Progressive Party on the sick leave of the representative Mette Hanekamhaug from 8 November until further notice. – from the Group of the Progressive Party on Permit of the Representative for the Øyvind Waksdal on 12 and 13 November to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for the More and Romesdal counties of Jon Georg Dale and for the Rogaland counties of Terje Halleland, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e134	Jon Georg Dale is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e150	Let me start by stating that we in Norway have a good and competent office and a good public sector. At the same time, in recent years, we have seen an increasing red tape in departments and underlying agencies, responsibilities powdering in the interaction between them and a lack of executive power in the government. This interpellance is going on because we, as politicians, are responsible for: Firstly, to get the most out of the money at our disposal, secondly, to ensure that public administration is available, open and efficient thirdly, to facilitate attractive jobs for the public sector and government administration, which are attractive to the right and good competence. Too many people tell stories about the powerlessness they feel toward faceless bureaucracy, and that they experience control and detail management stopping or inhibiting activity. In the newspapers we can read about bureaucrats who doubt the bureaucracy. It is easy to pull the smile belt when the defense staff tells us that seven employees are needed to change a light bulb. Orders shall be drawn up here, sent to work orders and certified. It becomes more absurd when employees say that they buy pens with their own money rather than get a pen for work because of the bureaucracy that comes with them. If we fail as politicians the task is to spend the money as efficiently as possible, we abuse taxpayers' money and give our citizens too little well-being back. There will always be debate on the extent of government administration and discussion on how to organise the public sector. The new thing is that employees themselves take the magazine from their mouths and call for red tape and falling productivity. This gives reason to stop, analyse developments and call for political leadership in the renewal of the public sector. Bureaucratisation is not the fault of bureaucrats, it is the responsibility of politicians. On Thursday 20 September, the department director of the Ministry of Culture Eivind Tesaker wrote a very thought-provoking chronicle in the Evening Post. He describes a development in which more and more staff are employed in the ministry, while setting up new supervision and complaints subjects. Thesis writes: ‘Despite the loss of many tasks and the increasing number of employees, productivity appears to be declining.’ He writes about meetings, plans and reports — on rules, manuals and guidelines, and that it is ‘more important to cooperate than to reach a decision’. He describes a hierarchy in which there are often ‘six to seven decision-making stages from case handlers to state councils’. Theoretically, it says: ‘Fear of criticism means that more and more things take longer and more, and that many things just stay lying down.’ Hans Christian Holthe, Director of the Directorate of Administration and ICT, says to Evening Post 21 September that “implementability is a more fundamental problem than fear of making mistakes”. On the same day, the Evening Post refers to things that accumulate in the departments. There's an image we recognize in Stortinget. There are not a few things that are postponed from one semester to the next and beyond to the third. The head of the Academy, Knut Aarbakke, who organizes many of the staff in the departments, has put his finger on something of the same thing after he called for a ministerial reform. He referred to the Gjørv Commission report, which points to the challenges of social security and preparedness, and stated that ‘the problem is at least as great in a number of other areas’. These descriptions must be taken seriously. I started this article by stating that we have a good public sector in Norway, and I mean that. At the same time, it is obvious that something has gone wrong, or that much can get better. This is about getting more out of resources and ensuring efficient and transparent decision-making processes. One key to doing so is to ensure that the country and its underlying agencies have attractive jobs, where employees are able to use their skills. We are still in a situation of competition for labour – often between the public and private sectors. We must ensure that red tape is not a competitive disadvantage in the recruitment of the best. This is a political leadership responsibility. The red-green government has now been sitting for seven years and cannot waive responsibility. For seven years one has been more concerned with boasting about how much money is spent than what results are achieved. In response to questions from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance wrote that it has been 15 pst. more staff in the departments since the government change. At the same time, tasks are moved to the underlying offices and new supervision is established. The evening post documented that growth has been twice the size of the police, and there have been more new bureaucrats than regulars. As state bureaucracy grows, the need for local bureaucracy increases. When more than 20 state agencies have the right to object in local planning cases, it is obvious that municipalities need counter-expertise. Of course, when municipalities have to deal with a series of departments, supervision and Directorates of Protection, a large number of employees are needed locally. This is a spiral where one need creates new needs. The question is: what is the government’s strategy for the renewal and modernisation of the public sector and for more efficient use of resources? It is good that the government is following up the work of the Centre-Right Government on the digitisation of the public sector, but also here there has been a lot of trouble on the road. A few weeks ago, I asked the Swedish Research Department to review reports and investigations submitted in the last ten years, which show the potential for efficiency in the public sector, using best practice, competition or structural reforms. I got a report with a presentation of the findings from approx. 20 reports. These showed a potential from 10 pst. to 30 pst. There's no way that it's possible to realize such a great potential, but maybe it's possible to realize 5 pst., 10 pst. or 15 pst. If we do that, we create room for more doctors, more nurses, more teachers and more policemen. We have the opportunity to create more well-being for the same resources. My question to the Council of State is: How has the government followed up the reports? Is there any strategy, or has the follow-up limited to putting it in a drawer? It is possible to do more without more money. On 17 June 2010, Chief of Staff Bertil Tiusanen of the State Borrowing Fund told DN.no that the Loan Fund has reduced staffing by 70 years of work, halved the processing time and reduced the number of telephone calls from 1.5 million to 500,000. He said, ‘Can we, with a budget of 300 million? SEK, save 50 million. kr, yes, but my God, think about what the big floors can save. And we haven't even done anything magical." The loan box has shown that this is possible. The question then is why the government does not follow up with simplifications and measures that allow us to release resources for better services. Perhaps the answer was given by the manager of the Loan Fund when he struck: ‘There is no strategy or policy project to improve efficiency.’ In this case, it is not nice for employees to despair, bureaucracy to grow and the government to lack implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e229	I would like to thank the representative Sanner for the opportunity to respond to an interview that raises important and challenging questions about whether we have effective central government. Mr. Sanner asked three questions in his interpellation. I will answer them in the order in which they are ordered. The first is if I share the reality description given by the Department Director of the Ministry of Culture. In chronicle, Department Director Tesaker of the Ministry of Culture points out that the number of staff in the Department is increasing, although several tasks have been outsourced to supervision and complaints subjects, and that the number of legislative proposals and complaints is falling. His analysis is that there are many reasons for this. Fear of criticism from above and from the outside is, in his opinion, one of them. The department director is in the chronicle very carefully to stress that he is speaking about his own department. However, I choose to mention the administration more generally. But I think many others, both in private and public business, will not recognize elements of that criticism – I do too. At the same time, I think there's reason to nuance the picture. The big picture is that Norwegian administration is effective – at least when we compare it with the administration of other countries. International comparisons, prepared by the World Bank, show that Norwegian administration is functioning well and ranked among the best in the world. In terms of efficiency in administration, only eight countries are better off than Norway. In terms of participation and transparency, Norway is cutting best. In the wake of Tesaker's chronicle, there are, among other things, in the evening post left a picture that this government – mainly – employs bureaucrats. That's not right. The growth in the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate has not happened because we have more people dealing with applications and moving papers, but because child protection tasks need to be solved better. Much of the growth in the state comes as a result of a wild policy. We have gained more staff in areas such as education, police, child protection, the Vegvesen and Nav. At the same time, the number of staff in the departments is increasing and police and health professionals report an increase in the reporting burden. But unlike Tesaker, I'm not sure if the number of staging messages and propositions is a good indicator of efficiency in the ministry. When a sector is well-functioning, it may be a point not to propose new regulations or measures. Well, then, it's important to pay attention to implementation. At the same time, changing governments and governments may have different needs to submit proposals for changes to the Storting. There may also be reason to reflect on the issue of growth in the number of staff in the ministries. When the number of employees in the departments increases over time, there may be good reasons for this. As society becomes more complex, coherence between objectives and instruments becomes more complex, and the need for task-solving and cross-coordination is increasing. We look at it in as different areas as ICT and climate challenges. If we are to take advantage of ICT, it requires coordination, including at ministerial level. If we are to solve climate problems, policies between the different departments need to be coordinated, so that climate mitigation in one area is not only replaced by increased climate change emissions in another. It makes it more demanding to investigate, propose and decide measures that can ensure a more well-functioning society. Mr. Sanner said in his post that there has been 15 pst. increase in the number of ministerial staff under the red-green government. Let's go with 2005. If we calculate from 2006 – i.e. 1 January 2006 – the increase has been 5.6 pst. Unlike the department director's, it's my opinion that there's little fear in the departments, but there's some caution. If the role of departments is primarily to provide a good basis for decision-making and a safe framework for the implementation of public policies, it is good to be cautious. But we have to make sure we don't get too careful. We need to facilitate performance-oriented leadership in the state. So to the second question, which is why and how this has evolved. We know that the number of employees in the departments has increased somewhat over time. At the same time, we know that developments over many decades have been delegating tasks to underlying agencies and bodies to clean up the role of departments as the political management secretariat. Diffi draws in the report What's going on in the departments? provide several possible explanations: There's been an increasing media surge. The administrative audit of the National Audit Office has grown. It generates extensive follow-up work in the departments. The number of written questions and interviews has tripled. There will be several representative proposals. There will be considerably more requests for transparency. Comparable figures following the introduction of the Public Electronic Postal Record from June 2010 and June 2012 show a total growth of 25 pst. in requests for access received only in the departments. At the same time, it is not just the environment that affects the development of management. Without having good figures for it, I believe that there is good reason to believe that the control activity in the administration has grown. Monitoring and reporting are good and necessary to ensure that the objectives can be achieved. But the control growth may have undesirable side effects: Reporting and control have become very resource-intensive. Focus on control contributes to anxiety about making mistakes. It makes the administration more busy doing things right rather than doing the right things. Distance and creativity can easily be lacking. Digi writes in his report on developments in the departments in the last decade: ‘The pursuit of faults and defects by media leads to increased emphasis on control. Resources and attention are focused on monitoring and follow-up, and the fear of mistaking departments may weaken the willingness to set clear targets, inhibit policy development initiatives and slow down the development of innovative solutions. The focus of the national audit on deviations in individual areas may lead to unfortunate priorities and weaken the overall strength.’ During these days, diffi ends a major investigation work related to the consequences of current control and reporting regimes. The results will be presented at the DIFI Management Conference at the end of November. I look forward to following up what diffi comes with. The last question is what the government will do. Divis work will provide a good basis for identifying unnecessary reporting and control. I will now carry out a study on the administrative capacity, coordination and interaction. In this context, we will also assess whether administrative systems, regulations and other requirements can be eliminated or simplified. It could provide a good basis for working with the necessary efficiency and strengthening the administrative capacity. The government has announced that we will review the relationship between state directorates and municipalities with a view to giving municipalities more freedom of action and reducing unnecessary state-level detailed management of municipalities. In this context, we also need to look at the division of labour between departments and directorates in order to provide a good basis for policy-making and good frameworks for policy implementation and efficient resource use. But the most important thing we do to get more efficient management is to digitize it. It will reduce administrative resources, while making administration more user-oriented and user-friendly. This is why it is important to put pressure on the digitisation of administration, as the government does in the follow-up to the digitisation programme, and how the Loan Fund, the Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs are good examples of the launch of digitisation projects that have proven to reduce the cost of running the administration. The representative, Sanner, is raising important issues. Our government wants a strong and well-functioning public sector. That is why we welcome a debate that puts the spotlight on how we can get an even more efficient public sector. I am prepared to have a major focus on the reporting and control regime we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e312	Let me start by thanking you for your goodwill. I saw it as very well-willed in the answer, but to a little answer to the questions that were asked – perhaps with one exception, and it is the notified diffi report that goes through the control regime. I am pleased that the government has taken care of this. But let me express some disagreement with the Council when she says that digitization is the most important thing. I would say that the most important thing is the employees. The most important thing in the departments and underlying agencies in the public sector is the competence of employees. Then digitisation is an important tool, but it is the competence of employees that is important. It is an important matter for me because we are still in a situation where there is competition for the best labour force. And when employees themselves call for red tape, fear culture, etc., this red tape can be a barrier to competition for the public sector and public administration. I have to say, I'm a little surprised that the Council of State didn't take up that challenge. Then it's nice to order new reports, and to say that they will be looked at, they will be followed up, but what about these other reports, which are in the department's drawer? The review from the Stortinges Investigation Section lists almost 20 reports that go to municipalities, which go to state, which go to public procurement, which have been ordered and presented in the last ten years. Why don't you follow up on these? The reason why it is important to follow them up is that the needs for welfare services will increase in the coming years. We know that we lack teachers, we know that there is a need for more nurses, we know that there is a need for more doctors, and then we also have to think, how can we get more out of the resources we have at our disposal? And everyone who's been in politics for a while knows that it takes time to pick up such a potential, and then we don't have time for the government to think even more through the situation. Let me conclude with another example, and it is linked to the administration of transport, where we have reviewed and compared figures from Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Let me say it like this: Norway does not come out well when it comes to a comparison with any of these. If we compare with Sweden, Norway has several employees in State infrastructure management. Sweden has twice as many inhabitants and twice as much as Norway. Then it doesn't just keep saying that you have to build more roads, when you spend so much money hiring more and more people in the administration. We need to implement simplifications of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e321	I agree with the representative Jan Tore Sanner that the employees are the most important when we are going to get an even more efficient public enterprise. The employees are making an amazing effort. We've seen it, for example. In Child Protection, where I've gone in and looked at concrete numbers. We've had more children in state child protection, and we've got more employees, but if you measure the number of employees and the number of children, the increase in the number of children who get help is greater than the increase in the number of employees. It shows that we have employees who are able to contribute in a very good way. Then the representative says that we have several reports that show that there is a high potential for efficiency in the public sector. Then I think it's important to go a little bit into those reports. We could run the higher education sector more efficiently, but then we had to do something about the structure. The same applies to the municipal sector, where some reports only measure those municipalities that have the lowest cost compared to the services produced. I believe that there is a great weakness in those reports, because nothing is said about quality. If we are to develop the public sector, at least our government is concerned that we should have good quality, and then we also need to assess the quality that underlies these efficiency measurements. Then I agree that it is important to focus on buying correctly. That is why we have spent a lot of time in the government to facilitate regulatory simplification. We now have out at the hearing this with simplifications. A public body will look at simplifications in public procurement legislation, and we have spent a lot of time giving competence to public sector staff to work on procurement procedures. But I believe that where we can easily take out large efficiency gains, it is precisely in the area the representative refers to from the Loan Fund. Digital solutions have been introduced there. Good, user-oriented services have been given to users who are satisfied, who work well for the Loan Fund, and who are at the same time economical. We have also seen that in the Tax Directorate after the introduction of new solutions for tax returns. Many new solutions for business are also economical for them. That's why I think the most important thing we can do now is to have a high level of pressure on digitization. We have a regulation that can do a lot of work to get more digital solutions. The fact that we as users can now receive our post digitally, and that this should be the preferred solution for all public enterprises, will be a major step forward to put in place new digital solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e330	There are many negatively charged words in the political change – the words ‘bureaucratic’ and ‘faceless bureaucrats’ are some of them. Unfortunately, this is the case — unfortunately, because a well-functioning society depends on bureaucracy and bureaucrats. The administration of the public sector must be consistent with the tasks assigned to it. We're all going to be on guard against a system where bureaucracy is growing, without more tasks to be managed. I'm starting from the administration of the large municipal sector. The red-green government has invested heavily in the municipal sector in recent years. Big sums have been added to the municipal sector – 61 billion. kr since 2005. But the municipalities have also assigned new tasks. The children's haillift is one example, another is the necessary effort to protect children. We all want municipalities to offer older and sick good home services — and health care facilities if necessary. These services must be provided by professionals, but they must also be administered. KS has calculated the share of the sector used for administration. In 2005, when the Right disappeared from the Ministry of Local Affairs, the percentage of administration in the municipalities of Norway was 6.9 p.m. In 2011 it was 6.8 pst. These figures clearly show that bureaucracy in the municipal sector has not increased, but, on the contrary, has become more effective when compared with all the new tasks currently managed by municipalities. This is the number of municipalities that can be proud of. It's going in the right direction, and it's working well. In Oslo, where the Right has been in power for many years, one cannot read the same trend out of the numbers. The administration in Oslo in 2009 was 6.4 pst., while it had increased to 7.2 pst. in 2011. While the Municipality of Norway together reduces the administration, it increases in Oslo. Oslo certainly has skilled bureaucrats, but they have become more, not fewer. This shows that there is a long way between rhetoric and politics when the Right is talking about bureaucracy. It's an example of where the Right has power and influence, there's going to be more bureaucracy, no less. We're going to deal with the administrative work with the same respect as any other work. The community needs good bureaucrats who give you a message when you have a kindergarten, who send out your tax money that you have for your benefit, or who process your building request quickly, efficiently and according to Norwegian law. Bureaucracy is a diversity of tasks, but it's about making the social machinery go around, giving the citizens of the municipalities legal certainty and managing all the laws and decisions Stortinget takes. We are probably all aware of some unfortunate developments in Norway’s different levels of government, but overall, good work is being done. Nevertheless, there is room for improvement. We see that in some cases the supervision and control of the municipalities is too close and too detailed. The system is to be controlled, but we can control it where we know that the need is greatest, and turn control into learning and improving a sector. That's how we can make even better use of the resources, to the joy of the inhabitants of Norwegian municipalities. Such a review has been reported in the country and municipality main message. I look forward to that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e349	I thought it was very good that the representative Jan Tore Sanner addressed this interview – and this issue. Unfortunately, it did not seem that the two representatives of the government party who have spoken today are particularly concerned about the developments you have seen. Instead, it's a little more busy explaining things. I believe that the development and growth of the bureaucracy that we have seen is due to the fact that we have a government that is busy with central government and detail. New challenges will be met with more detailed management and more control measures. It obviously creates bureaucracy, it creates a state bureaucracy. We also have many governmental authorities that are required to follow the new detailed decisions that have been made. This of course creates new bureaucracy, both in Kommune-Noreg and in private enterprises. KS recently had an investigation that showed that 94 pst. municipal plans met with countersigns or countersigns. Most of it came from county offices. Of course, it creates bureaucracy in both county offices and the state agencies that come with contradictions, but of course it also creates bureaucracy and a lot of work in municipalities. Yesterday I was at a conference with the construction industry. There was also feedback that more and more time goes to paperwork. One gets new detailed requirements from the government – new building regulations – and it's not easy to see what tomorrow will be like. These include: supervision to come into force from 1 January – an independent supervision, an independent control – for which there are no regulations yet. Such uncertainty creates new insecurity, and it re-creates bureaucracy. This bureaucracy is because one has an uncritical production of promises. It may not be the worst. What's more worrying is all of these instructions they give, which go down in detail. In addition to this, there are circulars, supervision and controls. I think it is a pity that the Minister of Renewal – nor the representative of Ingarill Olsen – did he seem to take this sufficiently seriously. The Minister of Renewal here points to the importance of digitisation. Yeah, I think they're all a few. But then you don't have to come to the Storting once and tell me how important digitization is. Then one has to get it done. So the government has its seat of power for over seven years. Then it doesn't just keep talking about how important digitization is. A few have to do something, because the fact is that communication between municipalities and healthcare professionals is done to a certain extent by fax. It is not particularly productive, and it is not particularly predictable in 2012. Therefore, one must take this seriously. The progress party is concerned with simplification and bureaucratisation. It will be one of the most important things that we will put on the agenda if we come to power next year. The government that is now, I have unfortunately lost my trust in when it comes to this. There is therefore no attempt to simplify, on the contrary, a new circular and new regulations leading to more and more red tape, and there are new supervision and new control procedures that make more and more bureaucracy. So now is the time for action, but unfortunately I don't believe that the government that is now is able to do something. What we also see in the rest of the world is that one has seen this in simplifying and red tape on the agenda. It is clear that the developments we see in Norway are not positive for Norwegian competitiveness in the short term, because bureaucracy and a heavy code are to be financed. So it's the taxpayers who have to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e362	It's an important topic that the interpellant has addressed. But unfortunately for all of us, the theme is not new – it's recurring. Over time, many good attempts have been made to free themselves from the official control tank, for example: through target management — which was for a long time a lovely slogan, and was implemented in our large municipalities with great enthusiasm. The problem was to stick to the old governance principles alongside, namely regulation management, so today we have both target management and control. The slightly anecdotal approach to bulbs, I might turn more towards the fact that the problem is not that there are seven people who are used to change a bulb – there is no one who is so clumsy. But I think we're getting closer to the truth through an institute director, who with a glimpse in his eye said that when a light bulb went out in the old days, we changed it, while today it's a matter for the chief protection officer, so that we all get to write an aberration message. I think that's going to hit something right. Of course, this is also anecdotal, but we also need to have decentralised responsibility with employees who can solve the problems there and then, even in contact with customers or users, without fear of criticism. Because it's the fear of being criticized that makes you have to document for security reasons. The second documentary print also comes from the overall level, both in the municipality and – not least – the state. I would then say in a reply to the Council of State — because she is right in saying that there has been a growth in the number of public servants, which has also benefited the health and care sector: the problem is that we, by the way we direct the public sector, also make part of the employees of bureaucrats. We red tape those who could otherwise be involved in patient treatment and user-oriented activities. This has actually been documented by a survey carried out by the local authorities’ association, KS, which has now allowed Nordic research to look at the use of time and bureaucracy in the care sector. The report is very fresh, so they can say: ‘More than half of the reporting and documentation work carried out by the staff is entrusted to government authorities, while the others are initiated in the municipality, either from the administration or from the management of the business.’ [[57 %]] And on the other hand, ‘The study shows that staff, special managers and nurses spend a lot of time on reporting and documentation work. Nordic research estimates show that reporting and documentation activities on a national basis consume almost 10,000 annual works, similar compensation of employees of nearly five billion kroner.’» Now I am not saying that all this has been discarded, but it is also revealed in the study that very much of this bureaucratic work is diverting the employees from what they are employed for, namely user-oriented work. The study shows that time spent reporting and documentation is directly at the expense of time for users. Then I also have to say, in addition to what was said about objection – which we can use as an example: so there are 22 state objections that are designed not to produce the housing building, but to prevent housing construction. The interesting thing was that when a colleague of the state council Aasrud, our excellent environmental protection minister, was supposed to help the municipalities – he had a good idea of building closer and higher – he announced that the state would now use the opposition institute to help the municipalities, i.e. it would block regulatory plans in the service of the good cause. But it's basically a brake agent and not a stimulator. So I also have to say to this with IT: Yes, of course, it is good that the operations are made easier, but I think we should stick to what was the interpellant's errand, namely that it concerns the functions. If we have unnecessary functions, it's not very helpful that we get IT to do something more efficient, if the first functions could have been abolished and we could simplify the processes. Finally, I would like to say that the Storting is also responsible for not being too detailed through its regulation design. We have an excellent example of a case that lies here in the house – changes to the new Health Business Act – where we are therefore invited to regulate how often the boards of businesses will meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e390	I am also one of those who with great interest read the chronicles of the department director Eivind Tesaker in the Ministry of Culture. I record that many have known each other in his descriptions, and I can also recognize myself in something, both from the time of government and from the work here on the Stortinget. Chronicle is an important reminder that different ways of working, technological solutions, governance, reorganisations and development measures do not have to become an objective in itself. The most important thing is what you get at the other end. Part of the criticism relates to the trend towards more and more reporting and supervision. Nor should reporting and supervision become an objective in itself, but be an instrument for better management that provides better services to citizens. At the same time, we must not go into the trap that I have the impression that many are doing, and say that control and reporting in itself is an evil. The same applies to target and result management, which has also become a target. It is not wrong to have goals with what you do, nor is it wrong to measure whether you achieve the goals you set. The question must also be whether we are operating with too many objectives and whether we are measuring the right things. This is, of course, a responsibility that politicians have if we are to reduce and streamline. When the evening post opens up a formidable increase in the number of bureaucrats, it may give a false impression that several people should do the same job. Of course it's not like that. Bureaucrats are people who plan roads, who research, and who work with child protection, etc. When the need and effort increase, as it has done under this government, it is not so strange that there are also more employees. The political change of words about governance and governance is important. At the same time, we must not become so preoccupied with the internal work of the administration that we forget who the administration is for – whether the inhabitants or the business community. A great deal has been done in the meeting between bureaucrats and citizens to simplify recent years. Nevertheless, in many countries there is a great deal of frustration that the public has too much will for retail regulation and over-management. Excessive red tape creates frustration, inefficiency and steals resources from important societal tasks. Completion of forms for different control and registration purposes, application processes for different authorisations and reporting to authorities in connection with refurbishment, construction or industrial activities should be kept to a minimum. Different public offices have a wide range of information on each individual resident. We believe that the information needs to be re-usable across the floors to a significantly greater extent than is the case today. This, of course, requires public sector computing systems to be able to operate across sectors and agencies. The central part of the government has shown both the ability and the will to simplify. The municipal minister now removes the obligation to apply for a number of measures on private properties. You should be able to set up smaller additions, garages and toolhouses without going through today's paper mill. Full electronic processing of construction matters is also an important simplification act. Less need for case treatment in municipalities enables municipalities to use resources on other and more important things such as school and care for the elderly and on the larger and more difficult issues of development. The centre party will simplify and red tape the planning and construction processes in order to facilitate and speed up the organisation of sites and the handling of construction works by municipalities. It is also important for the Central Party that state objections do not override local self-government. It is therefore necessary to clarify the content of the statement of objections only in relation to important national and regional considerations. Furthermore, it needs to be coordinated and made more effective, including: with clear deadlines. The party leader and Minister for Municipal Affairs, Liv Signe Navarsete, have recently given the three other states councils of the Central Party to make clear their commitment to simplification – and they have responded to the call: The Minister of Transport promises to halve the planning time for large road and rail installations. The first measures will be included in the new transport plan in the new year. This means that traffic activity is increasing faster — more road and track in the past. The Minister of Oil and Energy promises that municipalities will decide for themselves the setting up of smaller wind turbines – simpler and straighter processes, environmentally friendly harvesting of nature and local value creation are key here. The Minister of Food and Agriculture promises quicker and easier treatment of compensation for natural damage to agriculture. It makes it easier for farmers, it reduces treatment time and speeds up the payment of compensation. In the end, one official must have once come with the following heart attack: there must not be more to watch than that which comes to mind. I think it may be a fitting summary, and not least an important call for us politicians. We are ultimately responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e420	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Sanner, for addressing a very important – yes, very important – theme. It is a pity that the Council of State responsible for the coordination of the government apparatus does not meet here today, but we just have to take note of that. The starting point for this interpellation, namely, the thought-provoking chronicle of the department director Eivind Tesaker on the inner life of the Ministry of Culture, was something that contributed to a significant debate earlier this year – and rightly so – because Tesaker put his finger on something the vast majority of us – at least many of those in this Chamber – feel and have felt in contact with the administration. It is about detailed management, increasing reporting requirements, action paralysis and decision-making. To tell you about this, Tesaker deserves praise, and that as politicians we actually follow up. In its chronicle Tesaker describes what I think are some general trends for higher and lower-level administration. First, reporting is becoming increasingly important in society. We have gradually come into a situation where everything – and I mean everything, big and small – must be reported and documented. This is related to the second development that several have put forward here today: the fear of criticism paralyzes decisions, and all energy is used instead of making sure that you have covered yourself well if you should, in spite of all the measures, oppose it. In this way, it becomes an evil spiral, which both steals resources and contributes to action being put on hold. That's simply not good. When it is said that it is not always possible to use the increase in the number of employees as a measure of red tape, and that this automatically means inefficiency. The growth of the public sector is also about the expansion of the welfare state, with which more people have been involved. But that the development of Tesaker in his chronicle is unfortunate, there can be no doubt about it either. Increased bureaucracy is not limited to just one community area — rather, this is a general trend. Let me point out some other areas where Tesaker's chronicle is relevant. One of the main findings of the 22nd July Commission is to a large extent on the lack of leadership and the lack of implementing capacity related to preparedness at almost all levels of government – the responsibility has been powdered and the decisions have not been taken or followed up well enough. In the field of education too, an increasing degree of red tape is reported, and the time spent by teachers with the students is eaten up by endless meetings, reports and tasks that no one with the heart really thinks should be the teacher’s tasks. In the field of business, we know that many small and medium-sized enterprises experience that they are barely able to reach the many reporting schemes and forms to be completed and need to spend most of their limited time on paper-moving rather than value-making. More and more, municipalities are controlled in detail, which means that the space for action on local priorities and implementation is being reduced unnecessarily. As a result, on the left, we have made concrete proposals on cutting red tape in key areas such as school and industry in recent years without having any impact. I hope and believe that a new, bourgeois government will be more proactive in terms of these questions than what we have seen from the red-green since the last seven years. In conclusion, I interpret the Council's response as somewhat in agreement with the inter-pellant, but unfortunately I end up being little concrete about what the Council of State will do. She rather says a little bit more about what she'll do in the future, and it's in many ways a little defensive and a little weird when you've been sitting with a lot of power in the last seven years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e446	I, like several other speakers, would like to join the compliments of the representative, Mr Sanner, to raise this debate, a debate that is not new, and which will not be the last in the Stortinge on how we manage the Community's resources. It is a debate we have in many contexts and in many horrors – fortunately regularly, and thank you for that. I am also pleased with the inter-pellant's emphasis on the office, the good and competent position we have with many employees who do an important job for society. It's also hard to disagree that the goal is to get the most out of the money we spend. In Norwegian society today, it is central to getting as much money back as possible that we actually plan and manage resource use and control resource use in a good way. This planning, management and control must, of course, be based on a knowledge, on a knowledge that must be produced by some. Planning is important in order to ensure democratic processes. Planning is important for stakeholders – or to use a ‘newsman’ word ‘stakeholder’ – to be heard before decisions affecting them are taken. An administration with transparency also has an important democratic aspect. This gives us an opportunity, for example: as elected representatives, to control what the central government had to do, or the inhabitants have the ability to control what their municipalities spend money on. In particular, control is important for the prevention and, where appropriate, the detection of abuses and errors of Community resources. However, the questions we have to ask ourselves are: is everything we do in planning, management and control necessary? Is there any of what we're doing that we can't do in the future? And can we do things in a simpler, smarter, more efficient way? These are questions that I think everyone agrees that we should ask, but also in today's debate, there is a limited number of concrete proposals, because we have to admit, when we try to move into these questions, that these are complex relationships, and that, in isolation, there is a lot of what we do, which is very correct. But I'm absolutely sure there's potential. The challenge is that we can figure out that potential together. At the same time, we need to be careful not to knock out the baby with the bath water. That's a reason why we've got the planning processes we have, because land conflicts and how we're going to dispose of what's scarce for society, the areas, have direct economic consequences for a lot of people. Then we have to make sure that those affected are given the opportunity to comment. But it's also true that the community has strong interests in how we dispose of that area, precisely because it's scarcity. It is easy to agree with the easily rhetorical representation that yes, we have 22 offices that have the right to object and that are designed to prevent housing, but no one is actively working for it. But there is still no one who has put into practice which of the national considerations on which this institution of objection is based, which is not necessary. Which is what we want to remove? That debate must also take place at some point. Nor have I heard of anyone who calls for us to reduce transparency and transparency in administration in order to make it more effective because it has an important democratic perspective. The National Auditorate carries out a lot of work, it's one of the biggest bodies in the world, and it's an important job, even if it leads to more work for someone. But there should be a relationship between the resources that we put into control and verification, and the effects that we achieve, and even if it is a goal, and we're going to try to do everything right, I think the cost of guaranteeing it through a control regime will far exceed the benefits. We may also have to admit, as elected representatives in this Chamber, that there are limitations on how far we should go in controlling, we may have to change our threshold in order to accept errors and inaccuracies somewhat in relation to today. Since anecdotic manufacturing has been a topic today, I can contribute to a change in road construction, because it has been highlighted as an example where we do not do it particularly well compared to other countries. One of the reasons for this might be how we build roads, that we put things on offer so that the public should build roads. To take a simple little road map in Northern Ireland, Røvika-Strømsnes, 6.2 km: The tender documents from the State Road Service weighed 9.7 kg – it was the documents that went out to the contractors because we were to have control of each and every penny. We may also be able to give the Vegvesen a little more freedom of action and not control every single penny from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e464	It was for the representative Michael Tetzschners – I don't know if it's allowed to say «unfair», but «unfair» may be allowed to say – attacks on Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhjell. He referred to a letter that Solhjell sent to his countrymen, where Solhjell reportedly asked the statesmen to object to large-scale municipal plans. There is a deliberate distortion of the content of this letter. What Solhjell has done was that in August of this year he sent a letter to all the statesmen and asked them to ensure that the regional state contributes to increased housing in the municipalities by itself contributing to planning at the local level at an early stage of the planning work to ensure the important housing structure, and that it becomes an important part of municipal plans – just as the Stortinget decided that regional state should act when we adopted the plan part of new planning and building laws. When the Council of State mentions objections, he shows that the lack of provision for increased housing in municipal plans is a breach of such an important national importance that municipal plans that do not take into account the need for housing can be met with objections, and that is the very opposite of what Tetzschner said here and claimed. Otherwise, I have also recorded that former governments of a different color than the one we now have have have often been high on the track to highlight their entrepreneurial position and their willingness and ability to debureaucratise in view of the business opportunities to grow and develop. As far as I can find out, it is actually Minister of Industry Trond Giske who has really gained momentum in the work of red tape in favour of a business that otherwise might not develop as well as it could under the conditions set by Trond Giske. Then I have recorded that several speakers here have talked about bulbs as an example of bureaucracy. I almost see that as an attempt to ridicule public employees outside the municipalities, who do an important job in their daily lives. But I also have experience with municipalities and bulbs. My experience from the municipality of Drammen was that it was the so-called ‘outsourcing’ of watchmaster services that created the light bulb problem, possibly a reorganization into a so-called order-executor model, which has been the flagship of the right-hand side in Kommune-Norway. In Drammen City Hall, from which I have my experience, it is high below the roof in many ways, and it also led to bulbs hanging so high that a poor rapporteur with fear of heights did not take the chance of changing those bulbs himself. Before the Right and Progress Party in the Drama removed the municipal watchmasters and introduced an order-executor model, there were always people who changed the bulbs when they left. Afterwards, it could be up to several weeks before the bulbs were replaced, because then we had to fill out forms and send orders to replace bulbs that we observed were not working daily. So the reality might be a little bit different than what's described. Then I want to end with examples of bureaucracy under the red-green government in my own home country, Buskerud. I have three examples of that kind of bureaucracy. The first example is that there are now 705 new annuals in kindergartens, the second example is that there are 1,189 new annuals in the health and social sectors, and the third example is that there are 390 new annuals in primary school. It might give you a slightly different picture than what is being tried here by a large "bureaucratization" with so-called negative advantage. I believe that the people in Buskerud are happy with the new public employees you have received in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e475	The President records that some representatives who have already spoken ask for a further statement, but in accordance with the rules of procedure relating to interpellations there is no reason to do so. Thus, no more people have drawn themselves to five-minute posts, and the interpellant, Jan Tore Sanner, gets the word for his final post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e478	Let me just first repeat to the last article that several employees in kindergartens, schools and hospitals have nothing to do with red tape. It has to do with the need to strengthen well-being. That need will increase further in the years to come, and that is precisely why we need to address the red tape. I would like to thank you for your goodwill in the debate, including that of the Red-Green politicians. My conclusion is that this goodwill is far from sufficient. There is a need for political leadership. It's nice to hear what the Center Party wants, but the Center Party is responsible, and it's a political leadership responsibility to do something about this challenge, which many people have faced. The Council of State explained that no follow-up to the efficiency reports had been made, that there had to be something wrong in the reports. Many of these reports have been ordered by the red-green government, so in case something is wrong with the assignment. What has been done in many of these reports, based on ‘best practice’, is to compare small municipalities with small municipalities and large municipalities with large municipalities. I think we have a lot to learn from stretching to the best. Several tasks are being explained for the growth of the ministries. This further explains the growth of the underlying agencies by moving tasks from the departments to the underlying agencies. Then you justify the growth of municipal bureaucracy by moving tasks to the municipalities. There has to be something wrong here, because if all the tasks are moved down, there would have been reason to downgrade some of the state bureaucracy. But the sum is that it has grown, both in the municipalities and in the state. Then I also want to repeat that the background for this interpellation was just the chronicle of Tesaker. But I could just as well have been based on the doctor who complains about over-management and bureaucracy, or the teacher who complains about over-management and bureaucracy. Then we are in a situation where both the administrators feel a red tape, and the service providers experience a red tape. That means that we, as politicians, have to go into that task, take a responsibility and have a strategy. When the head of the Loan Fund concludes that there is no strategy, well, that means that the government has some central challenges. Teasaker wrote in his chronicle – let me finish with it: ‘We who work here have either been positively socialised or traumatised. Hopefully, the most powerful have ended in time.’ It's a thought-provoking phrase. We must ensure that we have the most competent office. We have to make it attractive jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e498	Thank you for an interesting debate. Some final comments from my side: firstly, I think it is important to remind each other that the proportion employed by general government in 2005 was 30.2 pst. At the end of 2011, the same percentage was 30.2. So it's the exact same proportion that works in general government now, as it was seven years ago. Then we've had a wild employment growth in the public sector. It has been on about 12 pst.–14 pst. in the municipalities and 8 pst. in the State sector. It provides many good new services to our citizens, which I think are absolutely necessary. When we have a strong growth in employment, including in the public sector, there must be a few more bureaucrats. So when there were 500 more employees in the National Child Protection Service, there were under 20 new bureaucrats to manage the 500. So our government has implemented major organisational changes: the Nav reform, the Cooperation reform, major changes in the Foreign Directorate. Such processes also need management. I also think it's important that we remind each other that there have been more employees in universities and colleges, there have been more employees in our healthcare system. When I meet many of the employees, they are concerned that they need to have more administrative support staff around them, so that they are able to do the job they are trained to do. We have a lot of good employees who might need that relief. We have to keep a good balance in this. Then there's something that I think is interesting in the debate we're conducting, and that's that I think many people see that we have too much reporting and control regimes. Then we need to work together to determine which reporting and control procedures we are going to end with in the future. I also think that in some context we have to dry up: no, there are statistics we don't have, no, there's information we don't have, and we don't intend to collect it either. Because it is often on the basis of concrete questions that we create new reporting systems. Here I think we all have a responsibility. Finally, to Borghild The trend that calls for the Minister of Coordination in this room: Administrative policy is my constitutional responsibility, and therefore it was natural that I was the one who answered this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e511	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e527	Politicians’ standard greetings to Norwegian industry are usually in need of predictable framework conditions. One of the most important framework conditions for business is the administrative practices of the tax authorities. Tax is a key cost element for enterprises. It is often the largest single cost of the year. That's why it has to be right. Sometimes the tax is applied to the owners, sometimes to the company itself. However, the result is the same: it is a cost and not least part of the competitiveness of an enterprise. Therefore, of course, businesses want to minimise the cost. This does not mean, however, that the starting point of the authorities should be that the companies intend to do so in an unregulated manner. The companies want this to be true. Tax authorities, on their part, should not have the reverse approach to this, namely that it is about maximising the tax. Their credo is, and should be, the right equation at the right time. But I think these five simple words don't always feel as simple as Norwegian business. The ratio of tax revenues to taxpayers is such that decisions by the authorities often have a major and crucial role to play in enterprises. Of course, in a landscape with ever-increasing tax changes, there will be legal disagreement. Then it must not be too heavy to turn to the authorities. Decisions that have already been taken must not be made with any merit. One must be sure that these are important decisions for business, and they must then be handled. One must be aware that continuous regulatory changes can give little predictability, and that, not least in a globalised society, in particular, international companies can perceive Norwegian equality management as more than demanding and such as not attractive for business start-ups — perhaps except that they are free of the wealth tax, but it does not belong here today. Developments over recent years show that there is a need for changes in administrative practices, probably also in the mentality, approach, systematics and the organisation of review procedures in the tax haven. There are too many individual cases – both at the table of depositors and tax lawyers – that testify to the need for change. Then you can say that you don't have to look at the details, but you have to look at the big picture. I think that's an incorrect approach, because it's already basically the tax office that makes bookkeeping, decides, imposes additional taxes, is dominant in the proceedings, writes down the appeal subject's decision. A little depending on the composition and competence of the denominator, to which I come back, this does not give any real review. In complaints, all of this creates a risk to businesses that legal certainty is not adequately ensured. It is also known that as a final product, tax will be offset – whether it is a final decision or not – by coercion. Then I also said a little about the consequences for the individual. The 'pay first, complain later' principle, with a rigid implementation, can in fact cause ulcers to even strong enterprises in legal disputes ultimately win. It is therefore just so important that legal certainty is ensured in the course of the process, for individual enterprises and for business operators. There are examples, as I have seen documented, with proposals for an equation for many millions of extra income, often more than that, that ended with zero after the introduction of resources into the processes — perhaps individual cases, but it keeps up with the kind of individual cases. We shouldn't. The economy is also experiencing considerable inflexibility in the system. Tax payers are subject to short deadlines for replying even through complex dossiers from the department, while the authorities are unable to impose reasonable time limits on themselves. But the most serious appeal point, what I want to spend the most time on today, is today's insufficient legal certainty regarding the complaints. I think the business community experiences that there's a pretty rough party in tax lawsuits. The quality of the handling of complaints is important. Today's system has great weaknesses, especially when you know that the threshold for going to court is high. For those with the least resources, the review procedure must be the best possible. The complaint handling system is such that it is aimed at a decision in line with the position of the tax office – the same office that has dealt with the original case, also suspends the review procedure. Over the years I have had close contact with members of the denominators around, not only in my own home country, many other places as well. Their testimony is consistent: their competence is not good enough because the requirements are not high enough. Tax is difficult, and those who point out the members – it is the political parties after a county election – are not sufficiently aware of what is required and of the responsibility for legal certainty for the members they pick out. The selection is often the result of rapid post-election processes, known to most politicians. And the treatment system in the case of complaints is such that the members of the panel can only tick a form if they agree with the decision of the tax office, but if they disagree, they themselves must convene a meeting, even formulating their disagreement on complex, legal tax issues. And what does a member choose without formal education and without the professional weight required in such a situation? There's no premium to guess it. In addition, it is directly unprofitable for members to disagree in the tax office’s attitude to complaints. It costs an extra meeting, a lot of skull work and extra work if you choose disagreement – without compensation. In addition, the settings are written in the same tax office, and colleagues are set to try each other out. I have no suspicion that this does not work with watertight bulkheads, but the uncertainty lies there for the tax collectors, especially when the tax collectors – with those who are appointed – may not be able to do the job they are going to do. This is an approach and a treatment we can't be familiar with. The store has tried to do something about this on several occasions. A document 8 proposal from the Progress Party a few years ago – or a little bit shorter – addressed this issue. Then Stortinget agreed that this had to be looked at. A total finance committee asked the government to come back with this. Nothing has happened in this area – almost nothing. So the question is, can we do something about this? The previous debate here today has referred to the need for concrete proposals on what to do. I think that the entrance to this is the subject of tax complaints – not because they want to make decisions in favour of Norwegian business, but because they want to give a guarantee that they are competently composed, that you get a different competence, a different selection of the members of the denominators. And then, of course, it has to be accompanied by a real compensation for the work you do. This debate should not be any kind of trade union promotion for members around the country, but I think you get the best results when you pay for what you do. Competence is not free, and this is important in this type of treatment. Legal certainty costs. Then we have to get another type of case preparation for the complaint handling, and it has to be separate from the original tax office that cancels this. Also for the previous debate today: these are not measures that cost a lot of money. This is to transform the systems so that tax and legal certainty are part of the competitiveness of enterprises and, in order to use even a little more words, of a country. Lack of legal certainty costs, and therefore it is important to look at improvement points. This interpellation is an attempt — once again — to invite the government, in particular the Minister of Finance, into the process of improving the Norwegian industry. I believe that today's practice in the handling of complaints – and I think it is absolutely essential in this context – removes completely unnecessary legal certainty in the appeal process to a real objection. The court proceedings, which are of course always possible, mean that there are taxpayers who bear the risk, there are taxpayers who bear the cost of developing justice in these areas. I think business is waiting for at least an attempt to do something about this. So far, there has been little, despite good attempts by both questioners, proposers and, as I said, an overall financial committee. Then everyone has done their job, and then we're really just waiting for what the Minister of Finance can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e555	This is an important debate, and there are important issues on the agenda. But at the same time I have a need to moderate, I think, a statement from the interpellant where it could at least sound as if there is some kind of arbitrariness in the treatment that both companies and others receive in the tax rate, that the tax system has in some way different intentions than to ensure that one pays the right tax, and that there is a level playing field between taxpayers being taken on board. In the case of the Norwegian tax system and the tax administration: one is that they deal with millions of cases, and the other is that the quality is consistently good. I think it's important that we also base it in such a discussion that we have today. At the same time, it is important – and I believe that both the inter-pellant and the undersigned have a common view – that an ongoing look at improvements, that a continuous maintenance and ensuring that both the tax system, laws and rules and the way in which the tax system is managed are the best thing we can get, in other words that the business community believes that legal certainty is reassuring in meeting with the tax authorities. The second, which is quite obvious, is that the task of the tax authorities is to determine the right tax on the basis of the rules adopted at all times by the Stortinge. This is reflected in the Ministry of Finance's governance with the tax bill, by the main objective of setting taxes correctly and in a timely manner. Current legislation and tax law practices shall provide a sound basis for the treatment of taxpayers. But, as I said, there is still a need to look at the legislation and practice of it, so that the quality of the proceedings and legal certainty are optimised. The representative Fleet refers to a number of cases. One is that the business community often meets the same people who both make bookkeeping, make decisions and write down complaints. The representative believes that this means that there is no real over-test in the system. To put it this way: it is important that the quality and credibility of the decisions of the tax authorities are high. The Tax Directorate has therefore provided guidance that, as a general rule, there should be a new case handler dealing with the case at any new stage of the proceedings. It follows from the Guidelines that if a complaint to the Tax Office concerns matters which have been waived during the Equation Procedure, there shall always be a new case handler dealing with the complaint. Furthermore, it follows that, as a general rule, a complaint against the decisions of the Tax Office is to be prepared for consideration by a new case handler. Exceptions to this general rule may be applicable in larger, complex cases where change of case handlers would be inappropriate both in terms of resource use, procedural time and continuity. The reason for having such a policy is to prevent an official or a woman from being considered incapacitated in the matter. A case handler is not normally in a position to participate in the case preparation of a decision even if he has previously taken a position on the matter, for example. by participating in a book review with the taxpayer. The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration has, among other things: based on the fact that neither the law in force nor the good administration of a book review auditor is in conflict, the draft amending Decision is also drafted. The representative Fleet also states that personal use provides no guarantee of irreprehensible discrimination. Equal treatment of taxpayers is important for the tax system. In order to obtain a more uniform and coordinated procedure at the tax offices, the Tax Directorate develops a number of instructions and guidelines. In particular, the Equation ABC is important in order to ensure a proper and consistent practice of the tax regime. Then it might not happen, and then it's the tax rate's task to follow up this. The Ministry of Finance may also clarify this further in its governance dialogue – as it is called – with the tax bill. Then there is also a separate procedure for cooperation between the tax office, the tax information and the tax returns in complaints and amending cases. The procedure shall ensure a good exchange of information between tax offices and tax collectors, so that tax collectors do not carry out a more extensive collection than is necessary when the tax charge is charged. It is important that the routine focuses on avoiding the inclusion of issues where there are obvious errors in the equation. A new system solution is also in place to make it easier for tax collectors to see whether there is an open complaint or amendment case on taxpayers. So the representative fleet says that governments often give tax payers for short deadlines in complicated cases, while feedback from the tax administration can take a very long time. There are legal rules for taxpayers to be alerted if the authorities wish to derogate from the duties of taxpayers. This is a rule that, in my view, ensures the legal certainty of taxpayers and contributes to increased quality in the determination of the tax in the event of possible errors, and that misunderstandings, etc. may be clarified before any departure from the duties of the taxpayer. The use of warning rules, both in the case of taxes and in other parts of the administration, is important both for the purposes of the tax haven's service objectives, the service objectives of other departments and for taxpayers and others who have complaints against public administration. It is such that rules and practices are designed to ensure the legal certainty of taxpayers, but there is always reason to look for opportunities for improvement. It is important that the tax management rules are not unreasonable or stricter than necessary. As a result of the debate we had in the past, for example, the area of so-called excuses for additional taxes, recently expanded. In addition, the additional tax rate has been reduced from 30 pst. to 15 pst. in the cases where taxpayers have provided the equality authorities with incorrect or incomplete information on items in the declaration that have subsequently been declared unwritten by the employer or other third parties. Furthermore, the rule that taxpayers may lose their right to complain when they have not fulfilled their obligation to provide information has been abolished. With regard to the last issue on which the interpellant spent most of his time, the relationship with the complainants, it is important that both in law and in practice, the complainants have an independent position and position in relation to what they are going to deal with. The Ministry is therefore now in the process of a major revision of the legislation on the management of taxes, including the rules on complaints. An important objective of this work is to contribute to simplification, harmonisation of legislation, which I believe will also contribute to ensuring the legal certainty of taxpayers. In this context, I will also take with me what the interpellant says about both competence and the knowledge and professional weight that should and should lie in the complaints. It's an important point that it's being cared for in a good enough way, and I'm going to look at whether today's legislation on the composition of the subjects, including in terms of competence, is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e588	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. In fact, our different starting point is that the Minister of Finance, in his reply, takes on the basis of the information he derives from his own office – from the tax administration, from the Ministry of Finance. It is clear that we have guidelines for equal treatment in this country. But my point is that the business needs in some cases, which are very often of course somewhat more complicated than for the individual ordinary taxpayer, can relate to larger amounts and therefore also become more important. Unlike the finance minister, I pick up my information from the complainants in particular, who are very interested in me, and they tell a different story. They tell the story of their daily lives. There was nothing about the complainants in the written interview, but I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is now opening up – perhaps not just because of this debate – to look at this with competence. When the Minister of Finance says that the complainants should have an independent position, I fully agree with that. But how do you become independent? Well, you just become independent – and there are several areas in life, but this is not a philosophical debate – by having knowledge, by having competence, and then someone has to be able to do it. I repeat, and I hope that the Minister of Finance will take that stick in the final post: what can we do to get to it? It is simply to change the criteria and methods of selecting those sitting there. In order to acquire that competence, we have to do it another way. We need to spend some money on getting those who are competent. We do not need to purchase consulting services from the nearest audit firm, but there are a number of people who are able to handle this both in a professionally sound manner and to have the necessary practical transparency to achieve this. That's what I'm pleased with in the answer, not the repetition of how to do it in the tax administration, but this opening that makes me think that the finance minister may have thought that the interpellant had a point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e601	It is probably right that the Minister of Finance, of course, uses his own bureaucracy and his own system to upgrade and obtain professional information, but at the same time, I would say – so there should be no misunderstandings about it – that the undersigned also follow in what we can call the real world. It is important, whether you're a finance minister, a politician or in other areas, that you also have to sense what's going on out there. So there's enough ways to be independent. A major part of independence is that, for example: a complaint subject cannot be instructed by a non-instructor authority to say so. I have to use a few words on the complaints. It's, as the interpellant says, a elected body, and the members are appointed by the county council. Although the tax office prepares a case to be decided by the tax attorney, the tax administration does not have an administrative authority over the tax appeal subject. It's an important part of independence. Nor does the Ministry of Finance have such an instructional authority. As I said in my main post, the professional qualifications must also be required, so that these terms can provide a real guarantee of legal certainty. Two thirds of the members of the denominator shall have formal education in the fields of accounting, economics or law, and professional experience covering at least one of these areas, and the head of the denominator and vice-leader must comply with the requirement to be a court judge under the Law of the Court of Justice § 54. So, in my view, there are strong qualification requirements for tax complaints. As I said in my main answer, I'm going to admit the interpellant a point, and I think I also have a point. It is that when we say that we are going to go through and look at more legislative work in the area of tax administration, it is of course that we are also going to go through both complaints and complaints systems on the basis of the requirements that it would be reasonable to put up with such complaints, both in order to have well-qualified people in the area of complaints and also to build up further under the legal certainty of taxpayers. This is a work that, for my part, is very important to get done in a good and sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e612	The legal certainty of taxpayers is important for the conclusion of the tax system. It's a theme that you focus heavily on in tax administration. Legal certainty in the administration is traditionally perceived as protecting individuals from abuse and arbitrariness by the authorities, and as being able to calculate the legal position beforehand and defend their legal interests. A fundamental requirement for the administration is that it take decisions on the basis of a defence case. The legal certainty of the individual can be best achieved through trust-providing administrative procedures. Legal certainty for taxpayers is well preserved in Norway, but there is always a need to look at the quality of the legislation and not least its practice. Int. 213 S for 2010-2011 to Document 8:17 S to improve legal certainty for tax payers asked the majority of the finance committee government to come back in an appropriate way with a broader perspective on the legal certainty of taxpayers. It was followed up, first with a reference to measures to strengthen taxpayers’ rights in Prop. 1 for 2011-2012. At the same time, the government announces several measures to strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers. One of the measures notified was a review of the administrative rules in the field of taxation, primarily for taxes, employers’ taxes and value added tax. This will cover issues such as disclosure obligations for taxable persons, control decisions, party transparency and recovery of costs, etc. The objective of the review is to incorporate administrative rules into a separate tax administration law. The government reports that they have started working on new laws, but that the review is both extensive and time-consuming. Work will continue throughout 2013 and the government intends to draw up a hearing note on new tax management rules during 2014. The government also, as part of its efforts to strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers, has two proposals this year. One thing is to reduce the additional tax from 30 pst. to 15 pst. in the case where tax payers have provided the equality authorities with incorrect or incomplete information on items in the self-notification which are subsequently provided unrequired by employers or other third parties. The rule that taxpayers may lose their right of appeal when they have not complied with their obligation to provide information was simultaneously withdrawn. Both proposals are now adopted. Legal certainty for businesses and individuals is an important area of concern to the majority. I look forward to further work by the government on the revision of the tax and tax management legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e625	The first part of the debate has clarified a few things for me. The first is that when the fleet puts its trust in this government to do something for tax collectors, it shows that he is a man with a great deal of embedded optimism. The other thing that clarifies is that the Minister of Finance has an ear to the real world. There is a clear expectation on the part of society that everyone is paying the tax to which they are obliged. Although I believe that the level of taxation in Norway is too high, it is important that taxpayers relate to legislation. At times, a very complex regulatory framework can put any taxpayer to the test. In that case, the tax rate shall appear as a service charge that helps the taxpayer to obtain a correct profit or loss. However, many have experienced an unblemished meeting with the department when they have made mistakes. There are examples that the tax haven has used power and discretion to such an extent that it can destroy people. The issue has recently been discussed in the country’s newspapers with examples of tax authorities’ unfair behaviour. Over the years, politicians have received a number of enquiries from people who feel overwhelmed by the equality authorities, with serious accusations by tax authorities that have not been documented in retrospect. There are many capable, conscientious and good people working in the tax system. The budget has a demanding and important task, but the focus on being a service budget is still too weak, but the result is that many people experience the tax rate as being unreasonable, ongoing and difficult to deal with. It is often assumed that some mistakes are considered to be deliberate, and people are treated more as criminals than as ordinary taxpayers. Unfortunately, there are a good many examples of bad case handlers in the tax system. It is necessary to assess the adequacy of the procedures of the establishment and the adequacy of the enforcement of the law to ensure the legal certainty of the people. There is an obvious distribution of bias between the resources of a common taxpayer and the tax rate in cases where the entity will pursue tax payers. Tax payers must cover all the costs of expert assistance themselves, but may subsequently seek to recover the costs after the review procedure if the taxpayer recovers. It can lead to unfairness for taxpayers with a weak economy because they cannot afford to hire the skills needed to win over the tax rate. This also increases the risk of incorrect results. These are matters that go through ordinary review procedures, as well as matters that end up or should have ended up in court. There is a complex regulatory tax system to manage and control, a regulatory framework that can be difficult for some taxpayers to comply with even if one has the best intentions. Equation law, tax law, regulations, Equation ABC and a series of circulars and opinions of the Tax Directorate and the Ministry of Finance create an overall set of legislation that is very comprehensive and impossible to have an overview of. The Progress Party is strongly committed to simplifying the tax regime. There's a screaming need for that. Tax offices find it difficult to interpret the legislation, among other things. The National Audit Office's report Document 3:11 for 2009-2010 shows. There it emerges, among other things. there are different responses to similar cases from the different tax offices. The Tax Directorate itself believes that there is a need to increase the level of competence in the department. These circumstances have shown that the various tax authorities should respect taxpayers' perception of the facts of the case in some questions. The Progress Party shall promote proposals for significant simplification of this legislation in the context of the annual reviews of the State budget. There's a lot of examples you could go into, but I just want to mention a couple of things. The unauthorised cut-through rule shall be a safety valve against unlawful adjustment. The current use of the legislation has resulted in tax offices accusing a number of taxpayers of the use of illegal cutting. The Supreme Court judgments that exemplify such conduct by the tax offices are the Telenor judgment, the inheritance tax case against the Retan family and the Conoco judgment. Common to these are the accusations of disloyalty and very large amounts of tax levied by the tax authorities without judgment. The Supreme Court gave clear judges who suspended all these decisions. There have also been references to debates in the media. On Thursday 1 November, the group leader of Abax, Petter Quinsgaard, went through this. Finally, he writes: ‘Here tax payers are, in effect, lawless. The year’s amendment of the supplementary tax rules does nothing to improve legal certainty. The one who waited for something good has unfortunately waited in vain. One step forward and one step back.’ Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State if he intends to do something more about the improvements promised earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e651	I think this is a topic that we're going to come back to several times, because social development is going to increase the challenges of privacy and legal certainty in this area. It is important to be aware of those challenges and to discuss them carefully. So it's good that the interpellant has taken it up. I would like to start by saying that, of course – and I think that there is a very large cross-political consensus – tax evasion is important to avoid and combat. You have to pay the right tax, as the interpellant said. But it's important that it doesn't feel like it's a maximum tax. You just don't have to hang the tax collector and shake him until the last heads are out of your pocket. Here there are some limits to how to act. The Minister of Finance was concerned with this with arbitraryness. The starting point for much of the debate here at Stortinget was the Riksrevision report, Document No. 3:11 for 2009-2010. Cases were sent out to different regions in Norway and received very different answers based on the region in which they were located. It made it clear that there were challenges here. So you've gone on with the challenges. Then the Progress Party promoted its Document 8 proposal, and we had a hearing in the Committee. I remember that hearing very well. The Minister of Finance very offensively started to reject all proposals. Then we got a hearing with a rather competent panel. That consultation gave much thought to, because the message back to the Committee was quite unambiguous that there were significant challenges in a number of areas of the inter-pellant. It concerns the review procedure, time limits, right of representation of the complainants. It also applies to look at, as the interpellant was about, what kind of consequences a case actually has. The fact that additional taxes and penalties imposed have to be paid before the criminal proceedings have been completed can also have a very special impact between them. When the committee examined the matter, the majority also agreed, on which Gunvor Eldegard was involved, to ask for a case. I was actually a little horrified when she said that it was perceived to be black. I understand that there is still a lot of work left, and the representative also came up with that. I was concerned that I believe social development is also going to make this topic even more focused. We now have a proposition in the Financial Committee – 141 L. There is a need for taxpayers' information obligations, for all information to be provided, to go from document-related to system-based. It is clear that once you start to open up to full access to all the data stored in a company, the excess information will be quite as enormous in the information collected. There are some boundaries, I think, that are not drawn today, which are quite serious. I don't have any obvious, good solution to that either. But it is quite obvious that since IT has come to be and communication is much easier and stored in completely different ways than before, this opens up completely different challenges to those we have traditionally seen in tax treatment. I think that should get quite a lot of focus. Since the Minister of Finance has said that this is being worked on in the Department, I look forward to further discussions in this area. I think it's a very important topic. Because, as I said, we have to figure out the right tax, the welfare is to be carried according to ability, and taxes are to be applied on the right basis. Tax payers shall be treated in a fair and good manner, taking into account both legal certainty and the privacy of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e662	I would like to start by thanking the interpellant, the representative of the fleet, who has notified this topic in due time. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the tax rate, as the starting point for the interpellation, is also included in a broader governance picture, how many of the issues are the same, namely that the administration has taken over by its shortcuts. They have such a short way to power that they have considerable privileges, not least at the debt follow-up stage, compared to private creditors. I would like to say that although the interests of the state are largely high-valued and protective – it is a matter of getting money that we all enjoy when producing services in the country and municipality – it is nevertheless a party interest. It is then important to maintain the fundamental principles of legal certainty which make it possible to distance the interests of the parties from those of, for example: assesses the penalties to be applied if a rule has been misapplied or a liability has not been met. It's also the same body that makes an assessment of fact, and that uses the rules or what we can call the application of justice. At both of these stages mistakes may occur, although the state interest behind them is quite protective. Even if there is no longer any doubt as to the material justification for a public claim, it is good to say about legal certainty at the recovery stage. We see that the public acts as a much harder creditor, and that you can argue that you should be on the basis of equality principles, but that you get hurt because in some cases you get less money than private claimants get when they have to take care of the creditor. There are many creditors who have a willingness to pay, but who need a flexibility to make up their own. There's a very high percentage of the solution in terms of the private recovery industry. It's actually a lot to learn, and you could also evaluate whether you should not also go on some of those standards. It could also mean that the state got more into tax and didn't have to write it off when people give up in bankruptcy. I also have to say that in Norway we have an excellent device called an individual company. It's been a great success. There are 400,000 who have used it. The problem is that the individual enterprise, for example: if a large tax charge is levied against it, this shall immediately enter into the personal finances of the responsible economic operator concerned. Then you can risk that not only are there some shareholders who lose money when you expose the companies to hard-handed activity, but that the state actually has to bring in and pick up people who have experienced the major accident that it is going bankrupt even in their private lives, as a result of problems with the public requirements. Of course, I am pleased that the Minister of Finance says that we should go through the rules, and that he also alerts a softer approach on some points, although I will never, for my private part, believe that the Workers' Party will have any driving role in thinking about this. But I hope that together, based on the experience you have, not least in the collection industry you have in the private sector, you can see that you can simply get more if you put on the standards that apply. Then I think that the aspect that I've been dealing with, that you keep up with higher fees, which is charged to those who have failed to pay, also has a social side, by the fact that the state is a particularly hard-handed creditor, more than the private capitalists, to the small man and to the small enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e679	Thank you to all those who have been interested in the high cost of taxes for Norwegian business – and that it will be right. I think the representative Tetzschner says something quite right when he says that the administration has a takeover. It is precisely that uncertainty about the correct application of justice, which means that the denominators – and I will come back to them again – must have a competence. Now, in his final statement, the Minister of Finance says that they are not to be instructed. Of course, that's right. However, you can easily be instructed if you do not have sufficient knowledge and competence — nor do you get paid to obtain it. That's the main problem. Then the Minister of Finance says that there are demands for the composition of the subjects and their professional competence. Yeah, that's right, but not for everyone. What I hear is that it creates a distinction in the denominators. It creates a distinction between those who know something, and those who don't know anything -- a little rough sketched. I think this is exactly what's important. I believe that the discussion comes back to how we deal with this, that the administration should not have this takeover on which the representative Tetzschner is involved. Then we need tax complaints, which are anchoring for business – not to be industry champions to minimize taxes, but to be able to trust that this is right, and that one has the strength and knowledge to be a worthy counterpart to what comes from the tax haven, if one is not sure that it is right. In the way the denominators are designated: I think it's very good with politicians, but they have some automatic qualification to deal with tax matters, I really don't think so – when they point out that way. On the contrary, I think that their political preferences can be essentially disqualifying in terms of sitting and being a neutral treatiser of the issues that come up. I do not believe, as the representative Svendsen, that there is no hope that any government will do anything about this. I think one should hope that the red-green government will also see that this is important. This is a long-term work, and it is actually unpolitical work for the benefit of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e695	I would also like to thank you for the debate. It is both important and right to discuss this type of issue on various occasions that we have on the agenda today. With regard to the denominators, let me just make the following point: The point of the complaints is that they should be able to make a real review of the previous decisions of the tax office. This applies both in relation to the application of law and the assessment of evidence used by the tax office. It is then important that the denominators have competence, knowledge and can play their role independently and freely. The review I have referred to will help us to achieve the important objective of the denominators. Then I would also like to say the following: the debate we have today is to the extent that part of a larger picture is also about the basic good of the tax system and about the simplicity of the tax system. When the Stortinge treats and adopts tax rules and laws, and when formulating regulations, one must keep in mind that we have a tax system that is understandable and simple for taxpayers. It is also an important part of legal certainty. It is important that we have a robust tax system that can guarantee the community good and predictable income, which the Storting must manage in a good and sensible way on the expenditure side of the state budget. It shall ensure legal certainty and non-discrimination, and it shall be as easy as possible to deal with. There shall also be a tax system that contributes to both rational and minimal time-use for business. My impression is that the Norwegian tax system and the administration of the Norwegian tax system are constantly getting good shots and have high legitimacy both in business and among the population, and are well placed in international contexts. Then we have to constantly be careful to maintain it so that it also becomes the case in the future. Things that are charged on the tax side usually have two sides. The administration shall ensure, on its part, that the file is based on both factuality and professionalism. At the same time, it is important to get all aspects of a matter out of hand. A lot has happened in the tax system in recent years. Reorganisation has strengthened the competence, ability and ability of individual tax offices to deal with major and complex issues and to ensure that there is maximum equal treatment. The establishment has also largely introduced new technologies. Finally, the primary task of the administration is to manage laws and regulations in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting — that and nothing more.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e712	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e728	The financial crisis has created a strong focus in most countries around us on public debt and the challenges of the welfare society. Increased value creation and stimulation of growth appear as the key to coming up on the offensive. The challenges are great. In several countries, public spending needs to be cut, while strategies are being put in place — and efforts are being made — to increase private value creation. There is a heated discussion of what is possible and not possible, whether it is right to cut public spending so hard, etc. We are not going to enter that debate today. I just notice that many countries have already lowered corporate tax, and several countries have announced that they will reduce corporate tax both to stimulate their own business and to be competitive with the establishment of international companies. Initially, in line with the conclusions of the Minister of Finance in the previous debate, I would say that Norway has essentially a well-functioning tax system for the profits of businesses. The 1992 reform, with the agreement that tax rates had to be reduced and that the foundation should be broad by reducing the scope for deduction and with the smallest possible specific measures, is a good one. We got a new reform in 2004 that also changed a lot, but the corporate tax level remained unchanged, and that is what I have put in focus today. The background to my interpellation today is a question of Europe and other competing countries is about to level the advantage, and run past us. Is there too much tax burden on what will create what we will live on in the future – business? There's at least a very good reason to keep track of what's happening around us right now. The evaluation of the tax reform, presented in 2010, was very interesting. Enterprise tax receipts, measured as a share of GDP, increased sharply immediately after the reform. Strongly lowered tax levels and increased tax bases led to a significant increase in tax revenue. It has almost doubled immediately and has continued to rise far above double levels today. The fact that the head office of a party in the government, which until 2009 also had the Minister of Finance, is still capable of denying the obvious dynamics of taxation. My impression is that with the 1992 reform, Norway received a tax system that greatly reduced tax-based investments and adjustments, which stimulated healthy business activities and gave us international competitiveness also for tax rates. The Norwegian company tax was a total of 10 pst. below the OECD average at that time. The dynamics around taxes are strong. We strongly influence many decision-makers through the tax system, and we get the adaptation to which we invite. The museum guards obviously still enjoy denying it. However, I have noted that the Ministry of Finance has recognised something else, and is working to get this into its models. I have great respect for the complexity of the job, but as the results turn out, we will have a more qualified tax debate. The Norwegian economy is strong, but the division – or maybe we'll say the third when we bring the public sector – of the economy is clear. All non-oil related competitive activities are not sundown activities in Norway. However, they have a very tough job developing with a strong currency, high cost developments and weak international markets. If they are to succeed, they must meet with competence, investment and innovation. Everything requires space for action and capital, and they must be ahead of international competitors because the level of costs is higher. It's a strenuous exercise. In such a perspective, we need to be aware that the corporate tax rate excluding petroleum taxation, as a percentage of mainland Norway's GDP, in 2010 was above 4 pst. and rising, while in the OECD area it was below 3 pst. and falling. The Ministry of Finance's own figures from this year's budgetary questions show this. So in 1992, we were 10 percentage points below the OECD average in the tax rate. According to KPMG, we are now 3 pst. above, and the difference will increase. In Europe, the average rate of corporation tax has fallen even more, and in 2011 it was around 20pst. Additional countries have notified cut-offs in corporate taxes to stimulate more growth and claim better internationally. Our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden, has cut the corporate tax from 28 p.m. to 26.3 pst. and will continue down to 22 pst. Next year. What has contributed most to Sweden’s appearance as one of the most successful countries in the financial crisis, of this and other interventions, is difficult to say. But we should be able to agree that they have succeeded in restoring growth in the private sector, and they appear to be one of Europe's few real points of light at the moment. Sweden does not have the same oil wealth as Norway, and has not been as lucky with the foreign exchange as we have been for the last 15–20 years. They must live on what they can produce and process in tough international competition. It is interesting to follow the debate in Sweden. The emphasis is on dynamism and international competitiveness, including in fiscal terms. We should probably notice that the dynamics of international tax adjustment are claimed to be, and appear to be, quite strong. Swedish business leaders believe that international fiscal competitiveness is a prerequisite for the development of a forward-looking and strong business life in Sweden. Norway is not freed from these challenges, although oil activities today also attract many international actors to Norway. The 2004 reform was partly in response to the fact that the sharing model provided considerable room for adaptation. Taxes on employee income were reduced and dividend taxes were introduced. The motivation for adaptation has been removed – yet again a fairly clear proof of the dynamics and adaptability of the tax triggered by each decision maker. Norway tolerates good comparison with countries around us when looking at employee income taxes, but we do not care about business and private ownership. Our tax system is based on some elements that are equal whether the income comes into a company or as a salary. Obviously, other countries do not seem to be as concerned as we are by removing the motive for adaptation. There's enough reason to follow developments closely and look for solutions. It is not simply to lower the corporate tax in Norway without intervening in the foundation of our tax system. Lowering the general tax rate for everyone will be expensive, and it may not be realistic, necessary or even correct. There are always several roads to Rome. The effective level of taxation can be reduced in other ways. More roomy and better depreciation rates are one option. The tax reduction would not appear to be as obvious as a reduction in the tax rate, but it could be targeted at those who invest in Norwegian value creation. Both this and reduced taxes on wealth are issues that the Right points to regularly, and that we come back to in the budget debate. We take the concrete discussion there, but I wanted to raise my eyes from the proceeds calculations and on the longer-term challenges that the world around us can quickly do for Norway. In the short term, we see that most of it appears to be on the rails in Norway, but the longer-term perspectives are suitable for concern. The social risk of further increasing oil dependence, I believe, is great, and we will in any case get a country with a completely different character and housing pattern than what we see today, if we cannot keep a diverse structure in business. The financial paper indicated on Tuesday that the Minister of Finance was going to lie to him if someone asked him for a lower corporate tax in Norway. However, I take the chance of raising a debate around it, and I think the Minister of Finance is taking developments around us more seriously than that. I do not ask for any concrete measures here and now, but I believe that neither the tax system nor the tax level should be seen as being stoned. The dynamics around taxes are strong, and the world is constantly changing. We should also have a regular debate to follow up on it. So well do I think that the Minister of Finance will follow, that he sees the need for the same thing. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e756	When the Storting adopted the 1992 tax reform, there were some important principles underlying it. One was equal treatment, which we had in the previous debate, the other was a broad tax base and the third was low rates. Important changes were made in both the clearing-up of depreciation rates and the removal of provisions. I believe that one in retrospect, with quite a broad pen, could say that an important reason for the Norwegian economy to recover from the downturn early in the 1990s was the tax reform that was carried out. This was both because one generated investments that were profitable both for enterprises and for society as a whole, and because the tax reform made a significant contribution in that context to restoring growth in the Norwegian economy. Then it is that tax is just one of several factors that matter whether a country is good to invest in. There are many other framework conditions that are also important: predictability, political stability, good labour supply and, above all, trust between the different actors in the market. Good welfare systems and a high level of social equality and social security are also important. On the one hand, one also has to look at the tax burden on businesses in relation to how much businesses can ‘neighbour’ a co-financed well-being of employees’ illness, permitations, etc. Then it is important for business that a responsible and predictable economic policy is pursued. We have also discussed this and will discuss more in Stortinget – the rule of action, the phase-in of oil revenues and what makes it possible for us to have a good framework for economic policy. The special feature of the Norwegian model, which concerns cooperation between the authorities and the social partners, is important. I also refer here to things like that, among other things. is warned that we will now review the experience of income statements to see what we can do in the future to jointly address the cost challenge facing Norwegian business. In general, Norway is seen as a good country to invest and operate in. It is not least underlined that in recent years we have actually experienced very good, stable tax revenues from business, and that we have managed to maintain growth at a high level, including this year and the outlook we see for 2013. There is also a broad consensus that we should have a corporate tax. That is not what the debate is about. Companies are legal persons. They are subject to taxes, but they do not bear the taxes in an economic sense. It's only natural persons who can do it. The company tax is borne by the owners, e.g. through reduced profits. Employees may be paid less than they could otherwise have, suppliers lower prices and customers increased prices, so to speak. In this sense, corporate tax is also a kind of indirect tax on employees' wages and helps to shift the tax burden on other actors in society. What I understand is the important point from the interpellant is that Norway, like many other countries that have a small and open economy with high capital mobility, needs to look at the terrain in which this country is located. You can get a lot of reasons that you have a corporate tax, but I'll leave it right now. There is no doubt that the global economy and increasingly mobile tax bases call for company taxation to be competitive. As the interpellant was involved, we went further in 1992 than most other countries. Now, of course, we feel that other countries have gradually come to the side of and past Norway as a percentage. The average corporate tax rate for the 27 EU countries has fallen from 35 p.m. in 1995 to 23 p.m. Now. That is the formal tax rate. The effective corporate tax rate has also decreased, but not as much, because rate reductions have often been combined with base extensions. If we look at the statistics, Norway's going to be about the middle of the table, to put it like this. Of course, there are also large differences between countries — the rate varies from 10 pst. in Bulgaria and Cyprus, to 36 pst. in France – just so they say. Interpellant refers to what is happening in Sweden. There the government has now proposed in its State budget to reduce the corporate tax rate from 26.3 p.m. until 22 pst. At the same time, the Swedish Government proposes to limit the possibility for companies to deduct interest expenditure on loans between companies in the same partnership. Denmark has long had such rules. So when we look at the changes in corporate tax internationally, it's not a sign of a one-sided emphasis on tax competition, it's also, as I see it, a desire to protect their own tax base and to discourage multinational companies from exploiting the tax difference between countries. The very design of corporate tax is under discussion. Many people point out that it is a weakness of corporate tax that it favours debt over equity. The favour is that the company is deducted from debt interest but not from dividends. Multinational corporations may use the deduction of interest on debt to move profits from high tax countries to low tax countries. That means that there are weaknesses in corporate tax that it is important to look at. In Sweden, a sample, the Business Tax Committee, has been set up to look at the design of corporate tax and report by 1 October next year. Part of the mandate for this selection is to propose a more neutral taxation of equity and debt. They shall assess the limits on the interest deduction and deduction in order to calculate the normal return on equity. It cannot therefore be excluded that there may be further major changes in Swedish corporation tax in the coming years. England is also reforming corporate tax through a lower rate combined with an extended tax base. To go back to where I started – it is that the Norwegian company tax has a sensible device and a solid principle anchoring. But of course, like our neighbouring countries, we also need to consider how we can best protect the Norwegian corporate tax base in the future, in line with the needs of business, in order to contribute to solid and good value creation in the country. So an important task for the ministry is to follow closely — and we do — and, in this context, consider any action. Among other things, the Ministry of Finance now considers possible measures to counteract the fact that international companies are deducting Norway and income to low tax countries. I have no ambition to participate in an international tax competition where the goal is to get the lowest possible rates. We need a good system both for businesses and for individuals to support the welfare state and value creation and production in Norway. At the same time, the tax system should contribute to efficient resource use. I believe that overall the competitiveness of Norway depends on our being able to use resources in a way that provides a good basis for production and good remuneration, while at the same time keeping unemployment down and having full employment. Looking at Norway compared to other countries recently, it may seem that we have a good production tax base in Norway. It is important that we take care of, protect and build under the future. A good and effective tax system, as I mentioned in the previous debate, is an important part of this work. I would essentially like to assure the interpellant in a simple and straightforward way that the Minister of Finance is following closely. And where I see that there is a need for change, I also want to assess whether I should make proposals for changes. However, there needs to be a greater discussion and a wider whole about the economic basis for production and employment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e788	I think that was a good answer from the Minister of Finance. I figured he'd come with me. Nor do I see any reason Norway should lead in any international tax competition. There are other countries that may need to protect their own tax base even more than we do. I just wanted to confirm that you're coming with me. There have been trends in a little debate about the level of investment, especially in the Norwegian mainland industry, and we see that there are major challenges. The OECD has expressed clear concern that corporate taxes and the share of business in taxation in Norway are increasing in a world where other taxes are falling. Since the Minister of Finance mentioned France — a statement in the Financial Newspaper yesterday showed that the new socialist government in France is the last to leave. The concern is that the basis for value creation has been weakened so strongly in the traditional industry and industry in Europe that shock therapy is needed here – and it was used in France. I don't think we need to approach that. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance. The reform that came in 1992 was in many ways very forward-looking. It placed Norway very well in that we got a tax system that was easy to understand and that gave rise to too much rational and good adaptation in business. However, developments should be closely monitored. What kind of measures we are going to take can be debated around. At least we're going to focus on it, and we're going to focus on it in every state budget in the future. As the Minister of Finance said, world capital mobility has increased sharply since the time the system was created. Of course, it creates challenges in being too far away from what's the international level around us. I also agree with the Minister of Finance that it is not just easy to compare tax rates, because there are, of course, many regulations and rules that are below that level again, which ultimately determine the effective tax rate. So far, I think the Minister of Finance's answer has been quite comprehensive for what I wanted to shed light on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e803	Clearly, a debate like the one we have today can quickly become a more general debate on economic prospects and opportunities. It's natural for this to happen, because the tax system is an important part of it. The representative of Gundersen was also involved in the situation in Europe. Of course, in the debate we have had so far, there has been a lot of focus on reducing deficits and debt – in that context – in the state budget. Here, I think we'll agree quickly. Then one might also see that it might make sense to consider whether to get higher revenues, implement what is called structural reforms, including tax reform. I think that an important part of the international debate on tax systems, corporate taxes and tax rates will also focus on countries that need more robust tax systems and the need to protect and develop their tax base as an important part of that discussion. It was basically what I put in my post, that then this won't be a unilateral tax competition to have the lowest rate, but also to have a robust and good tax system that can provide good and predictable income. So I agree with Gundersen's representative that it is important to be concerned about the long-term, and that one is trying to put any changes in a tax system into the overall picture, as we did in 1992. Not only was there a need to clean up a tax system that had gradually become quite a gap and not quite a good one, but it was also a very important part of the policy that the government had taken on to bring back growth and investment in Norwegian business. The government is now working on a perspective message. It's coming out of New Year's. There is a Communication to look at developments in the Norwegian economy and in other key policy areas in the medium and long term. There we will also come back to more long-term assessments and opportunities in the Norwegian economy. There is no doubt that an important part of the work will be to ask the main question: how can we ensure that we have a good and up-to-date mainland sector that can gradually replace falling revenues from the oil industry? Then I just want to make Gundersen's representative aware of – he probably knows it from before – that not long ago I had the pleasure of opening a tax research centre at the Bergen School of Economics. There is, of course, evidence that both the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance are trying to obtain the best available in international research, and to the extent that they also stimulate Norwegian research in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e818	This interpellant debate might have been a little calmer than one initially thought. When the Minister of Finance told him to follow closely, I felt that Gundersen felt some kind of security. This way, maybe it's where we really are. I think it's important to discuss and evaluate our own competitiveness at all times – the effect we have on attracting us to investment, not least from what was said here about mainland Norway and our continental activities. A lot is very good. Many of these debates assume that it is a little bad, and that is not a correct picture of the situation in Norway. That's very good. I think the overall consensus – at least so far in the debate – that the 1992 tax reform is very good, both from the point of view of business and from the people's point of view of community and the opportunities in Norway is a very good starting point. To talk a little bit about competitiveness: I was at the Benteler Automotive at Raufoss. They have to improve their results every year by 10 pst. in order to be able to deliver its products to the European automotive industry in the years ahead – 10 pst. Every year their need for improvement was theirs. They did it. They did not mention taxes and tax bases in a single word. What they were concerned about was knowledge and people's development, looking at the possibilities to improve their own productivity, constantly sharpening opportunities and, not least, having the most and the best products, which they could refer to the market three to four years before they were on the market. That was – let's say – Benteler Automotive's entrance to competitiveness. It was the advantage of being in Norway, it was the advantage of having an industrial environment on Raufoss, as they presented it. Today, I was actually going to be at Herøya Industripark and opened a new industrial company that might employ 400–500–600 people. It's a new magnesium line, 1 billion. kr is invested. It's Austrian owners. They saw that Norway was the best country to establish this type of industry, picked up industrial production from China and placed it on Her Island in Norway. It's competitive. It's an attraction. It is also a basis for investment. The stability, security, predictability and long-termity are also what is requested here, which is very good in the Norwegian system and in the Norwegian model. We look at analyses for companies, the following: Ernst & Young assesses annual growth companies according to their own definition. In 2010 there were 2,195 companies that met the definition ‘growth company’. In 2011, this was increased by 50 pst, to 3,308 companies. A lot is very good in Norway. The employment rate is high. We're doing good at the World Bank's Doing Business Index. This is a good basis for industrial — business — based on Norway. Then it's absolutely necessary that a constant look through the systems that underlie this, look at the possibilities for improvement, look at the possibilities of possible adjustments. But that means that the foundation is very good. Norway is going well. Norway is well run. It shows all the numbers, and all the facts support what's being said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e835	Let me first thank the interpellant for this interpellation. It's not that often we discuss taxes outside the budget. Maybe we should do something more. It was interesting to hear the representative of Aasland, who one would think had almost reached Nirvana: it is so great in this country, Norway is run well and stable etc. Then it might be those who rule, who haven't quite managed to convince them who they are. But there's still one year left, so they can convince them that they're actually ruling this country very well. Good luck! Every day when I wake up, I think about the possibility of improving the tax system in Norway. Every day I think about what the Progress Party can promote by proposals, ideas and ideas relating to taxes, which make Norway fairer, and which make it more valuable in Norway, and how Norwegian business can become more competitive, etc. I have no idea that the Minister of Finance has the same dream at night and wakes up in the morning with this impression, although he is, after all, Minister of Finance. There's a lot of status quo, and there's a lot of boast about what's, and also what's been very long ago, but at least that's not the job of a finance minister. The job of a finance minister is to think about new things and see how the world around us is changing, and how to possibly get better competitiveness for Norwegian business. Of course, a lot is going well in Norway, and – I kept saying – almost just lacked the income we have. So we have the world's largest government savings fund, and we live as interest-raters soon, all men; of course it's going well in Norway. It's also going well in many industries, I'm not going to substantiate it. However, it is possible to think differently than you do today, and when you look at corporate taxation in other countries – Sweden is one example, but also in other countries in Europe – the consequence is in the long run just as Ole Gemms-Onstad said for a while, namely that businesses will move out of the country more if the tax level is too high compared to other countries. Of course, there are other factors that make Norway a good country to invest and operate in, which is quite obvious. But there is no particular doubt that tax is relatively important. Tax is a fiscal tool to maximise our well-being, and it is obvious that dynamic effects must also be taken into account. The representative Gundersen was in that there are dynamic effects, and actually, Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen says that there are dynamic effects – he just doesn't like the word ‘dynamic’. He just says that it has consequences for the Norwegian economy, etc., and that it can have positive and negative consequences. But obviously there is dynamics. Other alternatives could be considered to make Norwegian business even more competitive, for example: by making a tax return by providing tax relief to people who work, in return for a somewhat lower wage requirement in wage settlements. Then you will immediately learn that you cannot dictate the social partners. No, but the social partners think for themselves, so they'll understand that you get NOK 10,000 in tax bills, you might ask for a little bit less pay when you get into negotiations, so you're going to get a whole lot better than you originally were. It will also make Norwegian business more competitive, as it will be able to reduce costs per unit of production and make one more competitive abroad. That's another way to think about it. So this is because money isn't everything. It might sound like a cliché, but money isn't really everything. Having a job to go to is also relatively important, so even though we're pensioners of the State pension fund, all men, and we can probably have good welfare and live on the interest rates for a very long time in the future, it's actually so having a job to go to is very important. Everyone can't have a job with bureaucracy, which we had a debate about here a couple of hours ago. Nor can everyone have a job in which to produce welfare services. Some have to produce goods and other types of products. Therefore, provision should be made for Norwegian business to be able to compete abroad. We must not allow the oil to become a sleeping cushion for us, saying that we have so much income, and that everything is going so well, when other countries change their tax regimes and make themselves more attractive – not least this is Sweden, which is through a transformation that we might want to look a little bit closer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e854	Norway has a very high cost level, many in our traditional business labor. So the question is, is it the corporate tax that is the biggest challenge in this context? It is probably right, as was pointed out in the interpellation, that corporation tax has increased its share of GDP. It's not because we have increased rates, but because Norwegian business is going well, it's had good profits, and so it's increased payments for both taxes and dividends. Let me remind you that of the 330,000 new jobs created under the red-green government, two thirds are coming in the private sector. The maximum tax on company profits and dividends is in Norway at 48,2 p.m. It's, as already underlined here, in line with or slightly lower than in comparable countries. The peculiar challenges for Norwegian business are more closely linked to wage developments and to the strong competition for skilled labour. We can actually talk about a two-part division of Norwegian business. The oil-related industry, with domestic service industries, has very good times. On the other hand, there is a danger signal for the traditional and competitive industry. It's gone well so far, but we have to recognize that crown prices and high paychecks are a threat to very many businesses and too many jobs around the country. The centre party has been involved – and we still want to participate – in securing Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises. For me, it is natural to recall the lift that the red-green government has done so far to reduce transport costs, a lift that we have continued for years to come. Our ambitions are to create opportunities for development across the country, and a commitment to competitiveness for both new and established companies. However, it is difficult to see that there is a reduction in company taxes, as the interpellant points out, which will be the most effective contribution to securing jobs. For the strong-growth business sector, it will primarily help to increase the excess left on the owners. For the industry that wears, it will be of little importance. There are wage developments, available labour, exchange rates and other factors that are decisive. Then there are some other countries, among others. Sweden, which is now aiming to reduce corporation tax. Then it is important to have in the image the high unemployment rate and the reduced activity in the business world with which many countries are struggling. Let's be glad that Norwegian reality is a completely different one. Our means of supporting the domestic industry must be targeted at the factors that put pressure on their competitiveness. In this context, I do not believe that corporate tax is the biggest obstacle to growth and development, but it is important to follow closely at all times. It is important from the government's side to evaluate actions at any given time, and we also get an exciting and wide-ranging debate on this topic in the context of the perspective message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e867	I allow myself to be a little disrespectful at the beginning of the article. I was a little fascinated when the representative Tybring-Gjedde put out a little about what he was dreaming about, and what he was thinking when he woke up in the morning. I understand that when the representative Tybring-Gjedde in the morning says hello, my tax, it is the Norwegian tax system he is thinking about, and not anyone else nearby. I'm sure it's worth a little bit of information to bring with you. I think it is actually a little liberating to listen to this debate. I'd like to credit the interpellant Gundersen for bringing up the topic, quite prejudiced and without very sharp elbows against the government or the Norwegian tax system. Then I thought it would be exciting to hear if the Minister of Finance has a completed script that he pulls out, as intended ugly attacks, but he responded in the same style. I'm glad. If we look at the corporate tax in Norway – and several of the previous speakers have been involved – then after the tax settlement, it has been in place for many years now. I note that at least there is agreement that where we might be below the average earlier, we are about to get over the average now. In what the Council of State said, that he wanted to look closely at the situation, it is well acknowledged that even if we were satisfied at that time, when we apply our tax level, we are totally dependent on seeing what our countries nearby are doing. One example of that, which is even carried out by a red-green government, is the ship's cabotage. What did we see there? Although there was a lot of grievances about the retrospective part, there was in fact a complete consensus that because of the competitive situation we are sitting with a zero tax regime for the shipping industry, precisely because it is known that if we had a special level with such a global industry as the shipping industry is, it would really only have meant that we had lost both industry and jobs. Not at least many industries related to the shipping industry would lose in the long run. This shows that even this government has sometimes left the high level of rhetoric in tax matters, and has recognised what reality is. We have agreed on a tax regime for an industry that is actually well adapted to our competing countries in that sector. What I think is interesting is to ask myself what happens now that we still have this financial crisis in Europe. How will individual countries apply the tax system as a result of what we have seen here? As in some countries, do you want to increase the level of taxation in order to collect government income, or do you want to see, as in some other countries, that you need to lower the level of taxation in order to speed up the economy and speed up the export industries? That'll be interesting. That's what I think the Minister of Finance really says, that we're not sitting still. We closely monitor what's going on, and we depend on being able to adjust our tax level as it becomes more general around Europe. I will end by saying that I fully agree that the tax level is one element in whether it is attractive to invest in Norwegian jobs and Norwegian business. There are many others. I think the Minister of Finance was within the vast majority: do we have predictability in our thinking? Is it possible for companies to act over time? Having a well-developed welfare society creates social mobility, and it should not be underestimated. We have stability, which makes most people know that when you invest in this country, there is a reasonably safe framework for what you can expect from the Norwegian authorities. After all, the market itself cannot always be controlled to the same degree. So from the Christian People's Party we are happy with both the interpellation and not least the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e884	It is not difficult to agree with either the representative Syversen or the Minister of Finance that there are a number of other factors that are crucial to establishing a country, other than tax rates. I also saw no reason for us to have a heated debate, because I think it is quite broad agreement that we have a quite well-functioning system. Several negotiations have also been documented in the Financial Committee. But we're going to be able to deal with countries around us. It's going to be like the representative Syversen said, exciting to see how you actually end up, and how you adapt. But I think it's a development that we need to be very aware of, and that can affect how we're going to adapt here in Norway. We'll probably get more back to this in the perspective statement, as the Council of State said. The tax research centre in Bergen is a very important establishment, for tax – whether we like it or not – affects most of us. At least you hear that around the living room table. When no media is there and records what is being said, most people are busy with it. Then to the representative of Aasland. His example, Benteler Automotive, is quite interesting, because it shows that there is knowledge, productivity and the innovation challenge must be met. Here was a company that set a target of 10 pst. improvement every year. However, note that the figures in the national budget show that overall developments are not such in Norway. Growth in productivity in Norway has been low. So we went to Meltveit Kleppa, which was saying that the profits were high. I don't know where to take it from. But profits will also increase in enterprises that do not invest for a small period of time, until it goes downhill quite abruptly. So there's a lot of sides here. I don't think one should interpret it unambiguously in any direction. I have been confirmed that the Ministry of Finance is following closely, and that the Minister of Finance is following closely. There are exciting times in Europe. What we see from the media image now is that there are indications that very many people have a strong focus on how to increase their appreciation again. Europe is seeking to rebuild the value base so that it can cover the well-being that we actually expect. There's a lot of grip that's going to be taken. I feel very confident that we have both raised the debate and that the Minister of Finance has said that he is coming along. Then we'll probably get back to both tax levels and how we're going to get on the offensive in each budget. It's a completely different debate. And then we can kind of flip each other in the head with what we disagree about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e897	I would also like to thank you for this debate. I think it is, as was said otherwise in the debate, liberating to be able to discuss the income side of the state budget in peace and quiet and a little more forward-looking, because there is often a great deal of attention on the expenditure side of our discussions. There are two issues that are quite important, and that makes us p.t. has a relatively good margin of action on the expenditure side. One is that we have what we call a good structural tax growth in the economy, and the other is the phase-in of oil revenue that helps us in this period. But if we look a little further ahead – ten years ahead – it is actually that the proportion of phased-in oil revenues as a share of GDP will have reached a peak level. This means that we have some time to discuss how we can get good conditions for production and value creation in Norway, which we had in mind. The shared ambitions we have on the expenditure side will require that we also have a relatively high level of taxation in Norway in the future. I think we can agree on that very quickly. There are two important challenges we face in the slightly longer view. One is that cost developments in Norwegian production are becoming important. The second is the availability of skilled, competent and good labour. These two factors are becoming quite decisive in the future. Then I would like to say that I have attended some tax debates in Stortinget, and I also participated in the big debate on the tax reform in 1992, which was adopted before the big holiday in 1991. What I think is important, and we have to hold on to, is that there are some basic principles in a tax system that should be relatively firm over time, and such a bone is a broad tax base. We'll always be able to discuss tax rates, we'll always be able to discuss some types of tax, but the fact that there is a broad consensus about some basic assumptions in the tax system, I think is important in this debate as well. I will do my part to facilitate a good and forward-looking tax debate in this Chamber, and I also believe that such a debate will be much better if we can also build on both knowledge and good information about what is happening around it. So, as I said, I'm also going to contribute to our good follow-up, and that the Storting is also given the opportunity to have a word in the team, to use that expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e911	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e925	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e939	I'm going to spend a very short time, but I just need to explain a little bit about the proposals of the Progress Party. If we go back to Prop's settings. 108 S for 2010–2011, I perceive that the committee wanted to make a comment and was quite clear that the government was asked to find another solution when it came to the local staff in our foreign stations. Then I record that the government has come back to Stortinget in connection with the budget papers that have been submitted, and said that one only wants to maintain or continue the current system. I feel that what the Storting and an overall committee really asked for was a new arrangement. It hasn't happened. The party of progress continues to insist that this is what we want. Therefore, we also promote a proposal that follows the attitude of the minority, that we will legislate rights to pension benefits for local employees at Norwegian foreign stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e953	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e969	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e983	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e992	Norway has one of the most shy income insurance systems in the world. If you lose your job, you get unemployment benefits, you get long-term sickness, you get redundancy benefits, you get disability benefits, etc. That's good. We need good, decent arrangements for those who cannot work – and especially for those who are too sick to work. The sickness pay scheme is the strongest income insurance scheme of all of them. If you get sick, you have the right to replace 100 pst. of its remuneration up to six times the basic amount for up to one year. The vesting period is only four weeks — compared with a much longer vesting period and a much greater curtailment of previous wages for example. the day-to-day arrangements. The sickness pay system is very generous and there is a broad political consensus that it should continue to be shy. But it's not like that for everyone. The scheme I have outlined applies primarily to ordinary workers. While workers are paid sickness benefits equal to 100 pst. of employee income from day one — the first days financed by the employer, then financed by the country — free-lancers and self-employed persons are paid sick pay from day 17 on the day of absence at a level corresponding to 100 pst, respectively. and 65 pst. on the basis of sickness benefits. It is logical that self-employed persons are paid slightly less and have a greater self-employment period than workers. They have no employer, and they pay less into the state fund for this purpose. It's an important principle that there's a balance between what you pay and what you get out. Nevertheless, there is one aspect of this system that makes no sense: those who combine freelance income and entrepreneurial income are only compensated for 65 pst. of the total income — as if it were entrepreneurial income. This is a manifestly unfair discrimination and, as the Ministry of Finance wrote in a letter in 2009, it is ‘no tax justification for reducing sick pay and free-range income from 100 to 65 per cent of the sick pay basis when freelancers are also self-employed.’ This proposal is about correcting this unfairness. The proposed amendment to the Swedish Social Security Act § 8-42 implies that persons who have income at the time of the illness as both self-employed and freelancers from the 17th day will receive sickness benefits with a coverage of 100 pst. of free-range income and 65 pst. of the income as self-employed. I feel that there is a great deal of consensus about the intention of this proposal, and this is at least the case to the highest degree in the Right. It also appears that the representatives of the government and the government parties are involved. In his letter of reply on this matter, the Council of State – or it was actually her predecessor – wrote that: ‘I initially agree that the legislative amendment proposal will give a reasonable result.’ However, when the Right has decided not to support the proposal we are discussing here today, it has its background in the justification given by former government council Bjurstrom that the government did not want to change the law immediately. Such a change of rules at present would, according to the Council of State, present significant practical challenges. The main reason is the practical problem of distinguishing the income from the entrepreneurial income because the authorities do not determine the income of the free country separately. With today’s ICT solutions, more complex rules are expected to provide longer processing times, reduced quality and increased risk of discrimination when determining the health insurance basis. It is reassuring that such practical challenges should be in the way of what would be a significantly more reasonable system than the present one, in particular in view of the millions and billions we allocate each year to new and presumptuously better Nav IT systems and in other parts of the administration. But that's now the way it is at the moment, and that's the framework we politicians have to deal with. According to the Ministry, it is expected that it will be possible to implement a better solution, with no major administrative implications, as soon as the new ICT system is in place, perhaps as early as 2015 – i.e. in a few years’ time. If it is already possible to implement this proposal in an unbureaucratic way within a relatively short time, the Right is willing to wait. We have no desire in the meantime to contribute to a system that is more bureaucratic, more unpredictable and more imprudent. The right will have the most reasonable, fair and unbureaucratic social security system possible. We will therefore have a legislative change in line with what the proposers are asking for, as soon as it can be practically implemented without disproportionate administrative consequences. I would therefore repeat that the right heart fully supports the intention of the proposal, and would encourage the Council of State to speed up the work to bring about such a change in the law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1026	Providing persons who combine free-range income with entrepreneurial income with the same health insurance entitlements as one who combines employee income with entrepreneurial income is an objective for all the parties in our committee. There is no tax justification for not having equal rights, and we all want to have this done as quickly as possible. But it is precisely that in this case ‘as fast as possible’ is not now. As responsible politicians, we must realise that sometimes the practical obstacles are so great that we cannot implement the desired changes immediately. And there's no new and unknown issue for us. In the past, too, we have had to wait for the implementation of political decisions because of practical considerations, such as: the new reform of the labour market. We're all looking forward to it coming into force, and we should have implemented it before. But when there are no ICT and follow-up systems that can implement, enforce and follow up the reform, we have to wait. That's the way it is now. We have been clearly informed that it will be difficult to implement these changes with a significant impact page if they are to be implemented with the current ICT system. That the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party seem to close their eyes to this fact, is a luxury they can agree to because they are in opposition and do not have to take responsibility for the whole. As the rapporteur also pointed out, if this were to be adopted now, other groups in Nav would be liable to suffer damage. And that would have led to opportunities for increased risk that we once again got into situations where the payments of sick pay, for example. was delayed. The proposal could lead to longer processing times, reduced quality and increased risk of discrimination in the event of a change in the type of proposers proposed, at that time. I do not believe that either the Advance Party or the Christian People's Party will increase the budgets of Nav to compensate for the extra effort this proposal would entail. But it's going to be exciting to see in the alternative budgets that they're going to provide. As responsible politicians, it's a risk game that we don't want to be involved in. We already have a strong pressure from Nav, with major challenges, which would get even bigger and more challenging tasks, and it would be extremely demanding to deal with this at the moment. We, too, who now oppose the proposal, see that it is unfortunate for the freelancers who are being affected. At the same time, we take into account the realities. But it comes one day – for now we have launched a large-scale ICT development in Nav – as it is possible to end the unfair discrimination between those who combine freelance income with entrepreneurial income. It will be a good day, but that day is not today. But once the 2013 budget has been adopted, we have taken some real seven-mile steps closer. And when the new investment in ICT in Nav starts to roll out solutions, the good days will come – almost like pearls on a string. It will free up time at Nav that can be used to help people faster in work, and it will give citizens access to guidance and services in their own living room. But unlike the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, we don't want to give any false hopes, and we don't want to solve one problem by generating bigger problems and queues for others who need help from Nav. We could wish it had been different, but the fact is that it isn't. That is why, as responsible politicians, we have to deal with it and base it on it. That's why we clearly agree to work to make these changes, but we can't start them until it's practical.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1045	It's interesting to hear both the debate and the reading of the setting. And the most paradoxical thing in this case is that the whole Storting agrees that the system we have today is unfair. The Council of State has said that there is sympathy for the proposal. It also says in the letter: ‘I agree with the starting point that the legislative amendment proposal will give a reasonable result.’ I see that as a clear understanding that there could have been a change in this area – that today’s legislation is unfortunate for some users. I also feel, as the Labour Party has explained, that the Committee – and it is also clear in the Committee's comments: 'The Committee agrees with the rapporteurs that today's system provides unfair results' – agrees that today's rules are unfair. But we can't do anything about it. The thing is, we don't get to do anything about it, and I think that's a pretty interesting input into the political change of words. If it is that sensible things to improve welfare policy in Norway — provide more justice, correct in unintended bias — are not possible because we have created systems that do not handle it, it may never be that the systems are the ones to decide which policy this room should adopt. It must be this hall that adopts the policy, and then the systems must be set up according to the decisions that we make. That must be in my head, and I think it's a pity you haven't come any more. Because this is not a new issue. The issue was raised on 3 November 2008, and a letter was sent to the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry of Finance expressed its opinion in 2009 and pointed out that there were no fiscal reasons for not being able to make the changes. There has been plenty of time to find solutions to correct this bias, this injustice, which everyone thinks is an injustice. I'm a little surprised when you use words from this pulpit that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are almost irresponsible politicians when you want to find a temporary solution. I register a number of issues that we have dealt with in Stortinget, where we have found temporary solutions and changes. These included: pointed out the disability benefit – the new disability pension. What about the transitional arrangements that were created there? Was it irresponsible to make all those transitional arrangements to correct injustices? Was it the fear that it would take too much resources in Nav and escalate even greater problems and differences that led to the implementation of these transitional arrangements? No, it was the true opposite of the intention to get to those transitional arrangements: close some holes, pending the introduction of permanent legislation and putting it into effect. That's exactly the same Progress Party asks for here: tight holes to make sure you get justice in the system. It should be quite simple. Because what we know today is that someone who is a worker and serves, for example. NOK 250000 and has NOK 20 000 in entrepreneurial income, the sickness benefit is calculated by 100 pst. sick pay on labour income and 65 pst. from the 17th day of entrepreneurial income. One who has freelance work as an entrepreneurial income — with exactly the same amounts, NOK 250000 in freelance income, which is to be regarded as an income from employment, and NOK 20 000 in entrepreneurial income — why can’t he only be calculated? The system already exists in Nav. You calculate it already today. Why can't that free-range income, which is actually labour income, be calculated in the same way as the legislation we have – on the same calculator as in the calculation tool of Nav – in order to achieve that justice? It's as simple as correcting that injustice. Then I don't understand that you can make a big problem and push it over yourself, when the whole Storting initially agrees. I refer to the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1057	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1060	It is an important and interesting matter that is not informed. We know that employees have 100 pst. sickness benefit from the first day. Sick people have 65 pst. after 16 days, while freelancers have 100 pst. after 16 days. Just the fact that mariners only have 65 pst. After the 16th day, there is very little information on this in the Norwegian community. I have been in many debates where there has been a great surprise for many – including among red-greens – that the differences between employees and seafarers are so great. The chairman of the committee, Eriksson, said that this is just to fix, but what I'm going to get into is more demanding than that. There are special rules for freelancers, and it is particularly special that freelancers have special rules in relation to maritime operators. That is probably a good reason for that, but what we are discussing here today is what problems, what challenges, it creates when freelancers have income at the same time as seafaring traders. It is stated in the preamble that the equality authorities do not determine exemption income separately when they have entrepreneurial income. I expect that what is now at the heart of it is that it is incredibly difficult to define what is freelance work, and what is work related to being a seafaring business. I think you have to have a pretty significant control system to be able to define it in the cases where we're facing people who have both. For me, it's more than demanding how to do it. That is why it is quite natural for us to vote against the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party on the basis of the bureaucracy – the complexity – that that solution will entail. However, what this case makes so very clear is the very difference there is in the safety net for maritime traders versus employees. One of the main challenges of starting as a sea-going trader for an employee is precisely the sick pay scheme. When we are in the situation that society needs more maritime workers – we also get more maritime workers – in a number of professions, this is a problem that needs to be considered to the greatest extent. There must be a much greater balance between the sick pay scheme for maritime workers and that for employees. It requires a seagoing change in funding. It requires a seafaring trader to pay more to the community in the form of a higher social security charge, so that there will be a level playing field between what businesses and employees pay in the social security charge and what seafaring trader pays in the social security charge. It is the great challenge that I would appeal to the Council of State to continue working on, and that one here comes up with proposals for an increase in the social security fee for seafarers compared to the safety net on which a person chooses to land. I do not think it is natural for a seafaring sole proprietor to have 100 pst. from the first day, but perhaps a slightly lower percentage after a few waiting days, that a designer is a new scheme with a more jealous safety net for seafaring traders, where one has a financing from the seafaring traders who are at the level of what employees pay. We know that employees and businesses do not pay the full cost of the scheme, one pays a significant share. Similarly, maritime operators have to pay a significant share of their safety net. It is much better that we have a collective arrangement here over the community in this area than that freelancers and mariners have to create private solutions through insurance companies. That's the big challenge. I hope that many people can be involved, because it is quite critical that we have such a big difference between the health insurance network for seafarers and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1079	I do not go into the matter itself – there are several people who have said what it is about. In fact, today's legislation is unfortunate and unreasonable. It results in an injustice in which the proposal of the Advance Party, to which the Christian People's Party subscribes, corrects. The Minister of Labour has also confirmed this in his reply to the Committee on 2 August 2012, where she says: ‘I initially agree that the legislative amendment proposal will give a reasonable result.’ In this context, the Council of State confirms that the proposal presented is reasonable and will remedy the unfortunate consequences of this for those who combine business with free-range income. What Lundtigen draws up can be an exciting debate to take, but the matter today is not really about it. The Ministry of Finance has also stated in the past, in 2009, i.e. three years ago: ‘... there are no tax grounds for reducing sick pay and free-range income from 100 to 65 per cent of the sick pay basis when freelancers are also self-employed.’ This shows that the proposed regulatory changes do not have significant arguments against them. The only argument used against this proposal in the case is that the change in legislation will be difficult to implement due to poor ICT management solutions. For me, it becomes quite understandable, and it becomes very unreasonable, as the matter is not entirely new either. Freelancers create their own jobs, and thus contribute great resources to society, which is also a major political consensus. Then we can't leave the ICT problems for so many years as the reason why we can't correct this injustice. I believe that unreasonable arrangements must take precedence over bad systems, and the change in the rules can help us to make a progress in the implementation of new IT systems that, as I understand it, are expected in 2017. It is possible that the Council of States can confirm it, I heard a former representative here talked about 2015. If this is not possible, there should be a temporary solution – in my opinion – that ensures a fair health benefit for freelancers who have both income and entrepreneurial income. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote in favour of this proposal today. In this way, we believe that we should be able to ensure good and fair arrangements for those who create their own jobs and contribute important value creation to society. We cannot let the technology control the policy for so many years. It has been three to four years since this was first informed, and in 2009 the Minister of Finance responded clearly to this. If we wait maybe two or four more years, it'll be completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1102	I think the representative Lundtigen draws up an important discussion about sick pay for self-employed workers. We have made some changes during this period, including: we have given birth grants to the self-employed. They don't get sick money to be home with a sick child, there's an unfairness in today's system. Here we have to go further and improve the system for those who are self-employed, because we need them. This is about something else, it's about people who have income as freelancers, who today get covered 100 pst. of lost income up to 6 G – persons with only entrepreneurial income are covered by 65 pst. up to 6 G. Those who combine free-range income and entrepreneurial income are currently receiving sickness benefits according to the rules applicable to self-employed persons. This means that they get covered 65 pst. of the total income base, including the freelancing income. The proposers wish to amend the legislation to cover 100 pst for those with such combined income. of the revenues they have as freelancers. As many people are concerned, I agree that today's legislation is not reasonable – it may turn out unfortunate. This applies in particular to persons who have a large proportion of their income from freelance activities. I know that the Storting earlier today has discussed that the administration has increased. If we are to implement these changes without having the electronic system in place, we need to employ more case handlers in Nav. We have seen this when we have made changes to the birth grant scheme, that it has resulted in increased administrative resources that Nav has allocated to this. But this will become clear when we get a new system – Nav ICT – the biggest modernisation project in the public sector ever. Today, there are practical problems in identifying income as a freelancer because the tax rate does not determine this income separately. Electronic Dialogue with Employer – EDAG – is scheduled to be implemented from 2015. It will allow the department to identify freelance income. What is a complicating factor is that for the income groups concerned, there are often large fluctuations in income. In many cases, therefore, it is appropriate to provide a basis for health benefits at discretion — and that is important. If two separate income bases are to be established, two independent judgements must also be made. It allows for a high degree of discrimination. It sounds like, when you hear the representative Robert Eriksson, that it's kind of embarrassing that's why the government doesn't want to implement these changes now. But then it is reasonable to ask the question back: if it is so that the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party come into government at the 2013 elections, can they guarantee that they will make the changes they propose, with immediate effect in the autumn of 2013? I think that the room has a right to be answered, because what the representative from the Right says is that she will implement this if it does not involve large administrative resources. That's exactly what it does. That's exactly what we've been surveyed – that's exactly what we've got from Nav. If you are concerned that the public sector is not going to rush out, not to hire more case handlers, and we get these warnings – well, there is a basis for saying that in terms of these changes, we should wait until 2015 when we get a new ICT system in place. I agree with the criticism, but when it comes to Nav, I think everyone in this room will benefit from putting the systems in place before we get started. More use of discretion in these cases is going to lead to unfair discrimination, and we get warnings that if we do this now, it will have unreasonable administrative consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1121	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1124	I want to challenge the Council of State a little – or ask by ignorance, simply. The councils are very close to Nav, have good contact with Nav and also get their investigations from Nav. Then I wonder: we already have, as I sketched it from the pulpit, today a code that deals with labour income and entrepreneurial income. You can use the exact same calculation method, the same way of doing it, in terms of the combination of free-range income and entrepreneurial income. It's already solved in that way that if you just have a freelance income, then this is not a problem. Then I wonder, with such an easy way to deal with this, can the Council of State explain to me why it triggers so many administrative resources? I can't quite get hold of it. Could she have explained it to me so I get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1132	Yes, if it was that simple, I would have made these changes right away. But I also get warnings because they get a new electronic system where information can be obtained directly from the employer through the ICT system. We are now planning to put that system in place in 2017The Council of State said in 2015. She later wanted to correct it in 2017. If it is that the Progress Party can guarantee that they will do so immediately if they come into government, it would have been interesting to get an answer to it from the representative. Or does he just want to present the government's view in this matter as if we don't have control of Nav? I think we should take seriously the warnings we get about the modernisation of Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1142	I can, of course, testify in the following way: yes, when we in the Progress Party are promoting proposals, we also want to follow up those proposals in the Government. We will go far to find temporary, good solutions until a permanent data tool is in place. I'm pretty sure you add the goodwill, you find a solution. The Council of State was concerned about a matter of birth money in its contribution – there has been a temporary solution to it. The computer system isn't in place, either. You can do it, but you can't do it here. I'm convinced that if you put the same resources in here as well, you would have been able to find that solution. So my supplementary question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State not see the concern that there are ICT tools in our system that restrict when and what political decisions this room can take?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1149	It's the same with other systems. We have adopted a major malpractice reform. It's going to have great consequences for many people's lives, where they can make more money than they do today next to disability. It is, of course, complicated to implement major changes that are the reason it will not be implemented until 2014, that it will take some time. So this is the same thing as this right over here. The point is that there are practical problems in identifying income as a freelancer because the tax rate does not set this income separately. Electronic dialogue with employer, EDAG, which is a major project, is planned to be implemented from 2015. This will allow the department to identify freelance income. However, I have still not received an answer as to whether the representative can guarantee that the Progress Party will introduce this from the autumn of 2013 if they come to government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1156	It will not be answered by the Council of State, because there is no reason for the questioner to answer after the number of questions has been used up. Let's move on to the next replicator, who's the representative of Sylvi Graham.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1161	The backbone of the Nav reform is precisely ICT systems that do not talk to each other or that have shown that they cannot tackle all the challenges. So I agree with the intentions of the contributions of the representatives of the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, but the Right does not vote for today. It may not have been possible for the Council of State to bring it, as she asked if we would also introduce this first day. In fact, we may be in government in ten to eleven months from today, but we understand the arguments that the Council of State points out about the practical problems. I would nevertheless like to see the Council of State have a somewhat more offensive position on this issue. It is possible to imagine that the Council of State could already see whether it was possible to find a temporary solution of the kind that the proposers are asking for and that could be implemented without the great administrative consequences and the problems she outlines in her letter of reply – for two years is one thing, but four to five years can be very long.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1170	Now it's not four or five years we're talking about here, it's shorter. There's one way to solve this, and it's hiring several case handlers in Nav, but there's something I've understood that the Right is very skeptical about. The solution is to do it manually. Now I think that through the new ICT system we get, we get a very good development in the department. It's planned to save a lot of years' work, and that's important, because then there are machines that can do the tasks that some people do today. This will mean that Nav employees can also do what they are supposed to do, namely follow-up of individuals. But if the representative wants a faster progress on these issues, the answer is simple: Consider several case handlers in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1177	In total, it will take seven years from first reporting on this unfairness until there is a solution, which I expect the Council of State will be able to guarantee in that case to come in 2015. My question is, how much work has the government done to investigate and find alternative solutions to this, i.e. temporary solutions? I would like to believe that the government has done a job ahead of this – in advance of the fact that you have now given up, to say it like that. Does it, for example: have been judged whether you could buy services independently of Nav, so that someone else could actually do this? I'll assume it's not about very many hundreds of thousands of people who are freelancers. What the government has done to seek temporary solutions is really the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1184	We have not seen it appropriate to buy services or hire new case handlers in Nav and teach them in this processing system in order to coordinate better. Then I think it's much better use of public resources to say that we're now putting our power into the ICT hub that's going to lead to a faster process in Nav, and that users can get much easier answers. When this is solved through the ICT system, I do not think it is appropriate to employ a lot of case handlers temporarily to resolve this in the short term. I am also uncertain whether the representative of the Christian People's Party wants it if she comes to the government position in 2013 – whether she can then guarantee that she will adopt this change already in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1191	I think the answer given by the Council of State indicates that this is about economics. So you don't want to hire any more case handlers because it will cost so much. But it actually costs to do something fair in this country, and in this case it will cost a lot of money. To it with a guarantee from the Christian People's Party that, if we join the government, we will immediately do this: we are not sitting with the knowledge that the ministry has, but it is clear that we would have done this as soon as possible – at least we have gone about trying to find temporary arrangements, which the government has not actually done, as I understand the answer. So you don't want to hire more case handlers and teach them, because it costs so much money. Equality, equivalency and justice cost money – it actually does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1198	I think the most important thing now is that we use the Nav case handlers to do what is the purpose of the Nav reform, namely to follow up each one. I believe that both the representative and I agree that it is the most important thing we should spend time now, and not hire any temporary case handlers who are going to have a job for one year, so to speak, that it is not so important anymore for this to be solved electronically. It's not about money, it's about resource use – the most important resource in Nav should be used for those who need it all, most of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1203	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1211	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1251	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1261	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1269	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to legislate for pension benefits for local employees at Norwegian foreign stations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1541	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to find a temporary solution that provides both employee income and entrepreneurial income with a fair and correct sickness benefit if necessary, and to bring proceedings before the Storting as soon as possible and at the latest in spring 2013.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-08.ana.ud1177e1723	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
