ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e26	The representatives Freddy de Ruiter, Sylvi Graham, Lise Christoffersen, Anette Trettebergstien, Karin S. Woldseth, Håkon Haugli, Peter N. Myhre and Øyvind Waksdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Laila Davøy, Svein Roald Hansen and Irene Johansen on leave from 2 May to 5 May – all to attend meetings of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee on Iceland from the representative Erling Sande on care leave from 2 May to 15 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the county of Hordaland: Filip Rugg 2 and 3 May For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Knut Magnus Olsen 2–15. May For Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås 2nd and 3rd May and Kari Agerup 2nd and 3rd May
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e102	Filip Rygg, Knut Magnus Olsen, Stein Erik Lauvås and Kari Agerup are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 27 April 2012: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 27 April 2012 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is decreed: Prime Minister's Office State Secretary Heidi Sørensen is granted, on application, in pardon from the office of State Secretary for the Council of State Board Vegar Solhjell. State Secretary Kyrre Lekve is granted, on application, at the discretion of the State Secretary of the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen, with effect from 7 May 2012. Counsellor Ketil Raknes is appointed State Secretary for State Council Board Vegar Solhjell. Adviser Ragnhild Setsaas is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen with effect from 7 May 2012.’» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The former Secretary of State, Heidi Sørensen, takes office as a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e141	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the Councils of State Grete Faremo and Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e148	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question. Preparedness and security have a strong focus — rightly so. We know that an emergency centre has been planned in the Oslo region for a long time – in fact over ten years. This seems to be happening completely, even though we know that the emergency team needs to have new premises and facilities, we need to have new training facilities for the police, we need to build a new police high school in Oslo and the area, and we also know that criminal services need new premises. My question to the Council of State is, isn't it time to create a little predictability? It is also true that there is a plot of land on Alnabru where it is possible to establish all of these facilities quite quickly, but there is something that puts lids on the possibilities, so you can't move on. Now alternative areas have emerged where these different institutions can be established. Therefore, it is now very important that we clarify whether Alnabru is at all relevant, in order to create predictability and possibly to start putting the search light in other areas, so that a rescue centre is put in place much faster. Will the Council of State, the Government, make sure to clarify quite quickly whether Alnabru is at all a relevant area, so that we may be able to look for other alternatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e163	The work of setting up an emergency centre in Oslo is of high priority to the government. In order to clarify the priorities, the topics currently under consideration, the Ministry of Justice and Security commissioned the Ministry of Justice and Defence to take part in a working group set up by the Ministry of Transport in February last year. The aim was to explore the possibility of setting up an emergency centre in the Alnabru area of Oslo. This investigation was sent to the Ministry of Transport on 13 January of this year and has since been subject to external quality assurance. It is scheduled to be sent to the Ministry of Transport during these days. We are invited to a meeting on 7 May, together with the Ministry of Transport, where this report will be presented. In a letter dated 21 December last year, the Ministry of Justice and Defence commissioned State Building to investigate the current land selection in Oslo. In mid-April, the department received a final report from State Building where they presented four current plots in Oslo. I provide this information to illustrate that we are working on both the site option in the Alnabru area and alternative plots with a view to establishing this emergency centre in Oslo as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e174	That was a very good answer. It shows that there is planning going on, and you could not expect anything else, when it has taken so long. My follow-up question will then be: in these plans, conversations and reports, is there also an opening to include facilities other than the emergency team, training facilities and helicopter base? Because there are other functions, as well as institutions, to be given priority in the future. Among other things, I mentioned: The high school of police, and we know that the educational center of the Crime Agency, KRUS, also needs to have new premises at some point in time. Do you see this in context, so that you can hit several flies in one taste, to put it that way, in terms of being effective in several areas of preparedness and safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e183	These are the first three functions that have had focus. This is a land area that also has its limitations, and ensuring that we have as effective planning as possible by a security centre as the police need is important. So it's right, as the representative points out, that we have challenges both in the high school of police and in the educational centre of criminal law. It is therefore that we also have ongoing investigative work on how to meet the challenges of these educational institutions. The high school of police today has four locations, and the question is whether we should continue this structure or whether we should make changes to it. The educational cycle of criminal services is also something we have to assess, and may affect how we plan sites for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e192	Three questions have been asked and given rise to follow-up – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e195	Developments in the Oslo area are now so rapid because there is a lot of business and others who want to establish themselves in this area, that it is important to clarify this situation quickly, so that you can secure current plots. Then there are some empty alternatives in Oslo, and there are some close to Oslo’s limit — for example. Lahaugmoen, a good alternative. It is important to look at these options quickly, so that other actors do not enter and take the land. Sandberg was inside the history. This case requires political leadership, that one can now cut through and quickly come to a conclusion, preferably only with emergency services, but preferably also several institutions combined. Would the Storting expect to have a case about this over the summer holidays?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e204	I work with a view to submitting plans to the Emergency Response Centre as soon as possible. This is an important part of the follow-up to the cold water of 22 July, although the plans of an emergency centre existed before that. It is true, as the representative points out, that Lahaugmoen has been proposed as a possible alternative if it would prove impossible to find plots in Oslo. There are also others who have signed up. I think it's good to know that the police are an attractive tenant, an attractive function, but my primary focus is Oslo. Oslo needs good preparedness, and ensuring that those functions find a good and proper blank is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e213	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e216	The right has two clear prerequisites: the establishment of the Centre on a professional basis and quickly, within the borders of the municipalities of Oslo or in the nearby Oslo area. But the establishment of a centre does not necessarily lead to an increase in preparedness in itself. We need something to respond to. The fact that police coverage goes up, not down, will be important in the future, not least in other parts of the country, where we have low police coverage. Sandberg was about the question of new police college, because it has become very quiet about it in recent years, among other things. in the State budgets, and it must be assessed in parallel with the establishment of this centre with a view to increasing training opportunities for the growing number of police students in the Oslo area. The question is then: how will the Council of State ensure that the establishment of a new police college is integrated into the work of a new emergency centre in the Oslo area, without delaying the establishment of the centre? And when can we expect to get a case about setting up a new police college?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e226	As I said, the work with the Emergency Response Centre is progressing according to the plans I have outlined, and the aim is, of course, to propose this as soon as possible. We have discussed issues of police coverage many times, and we are also taking action to increase police coverage. Not least, the training of the number of police increased considerably. We have expanded the education offer by using sites both on Kongsvinger and in Stavern, and now such training is offered four places in the country. My goal is, of course, to come back with as good plans and concrete proposals as possible in this area as well, but without delaying the plans with the Emergency Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e237	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e240	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice, and in fact a total increase, is concerned with both coordination and progress, so that one gets in place a Emergency Response Centre. Several have pointed out that the police themselves are very clear that they want the center, the police are asking for more training. The Minister of Justice has also said in the past that a desire has been made, and former Justice Ministers have said so, so it is important that it comes as soon as possible. I also want to challenge the Minister of Justice on another issue in terms of preparedness. One thing is that you have to put in place good preparedness and a separate centre in the Oslo area, but does the Minister of Justice at the same time see a need for similar centres, just on a much smaller scale, elsewhere in the country, so that a better coordination between police and other agencies across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e247	I am pleased with the attention given to the Emergency Response Centre today – and not least to the impatience that prevails. We are working hard to ensure a rapid follow-up to what was also one of the priorities of the Special Committee's position after 22 July here in Stortinget. Then we're working to raise the preparedness also in other ways, not least to have the geographic challenge in mind. There is also some background because we were quick to change the instructions for use, for example. by the rescue helicopters, in addition to raising the preparedness of the Armed Helicopters on the Back. We need to get back to what the various preparedness measures – in addition to those we have today – will look like, and we want to present a social security message in the Stortingen before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e254	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e257	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Julia Timoshenko — the opposition leader in Ukraine — is in prison for a sentence that most people believe is political revenge. This week we've been able to see pictures of Timoshenko with clear bruises. She's a hunger striker and she's been forced into medical treatment. In its wake, President Barroso of the European Commission has said that it is not appropriate for him to travel to Ukraine before the country has changed its human rights policy. Germany, and Angela Merkel, assesses, among other things, boycott of summer's football-EM just to mark its resistance to human rights policy in the country. In Sweden, Minister of Foreign Affairs Carl Bildt called the Ukrainian ambassador into the carpet and demanded an explanation of what is happening in Ukraine, and not least Gahr Støre's colleague, Foreign Policy spokesman Urban Ahlin at the Social Democrats, said that it is time to think whip – we have to tell Ukraine that this is totally unacceptable, and that we want to look at what can be done to punish Ukraine. From Norway it's quiet. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think is needed to deal with the situation in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e268	Let me first say that it's not quiet from Norway. We have joined the many – let's say – protests against the developments we see in the political regime in Ukraine. Changes of regimes in that country, from one path to another and back, tend to lead to a wide range – we say – of revenge against those who had power before. What we now see about the trial and imprisonment of Timoshenko raises fundamental questions about human rights and legal certainty. Norway has taken this up. We have addressed it to diplomats from Ukraine outside Ukraine, and we have taken it up through our embassy in Kiev. So we join the voices that focus on this specific matter. It also applies to two or three other of her employees — or we shall say they are in the same political camp — who have experienced imprisonment and brutal treatment. There are two approaches to this. One is the specific situation for these people – how we can help them secure medical treatment, ensure that they get to a thorough medical examination, and ensure that the rights that apply are respected. This specific case is in an ongoing trial in Ukraine, a case that is to be pursued and to which we can have expectations. With regard to relations with Ukraine and how the international – and European – society should deal with it, I would be in favour of working there through the Council of Europe and the obligations of Ukraine as a Member State and duty towards the European Conventions, and the broader European opinions. Whether we're going to pull in the boycott of sports events, I'll hesitate. There has not been a line Norway has had in similar cases before, and there is nothing I immediately believe is a suitable tool here. But here it is important, to protest against the whole spectrum of political forces in Ukraine, the way in which such settlement is made – to focus on this specific matter with the opposition leader, but also to keep the political system as a whole – both opposition and position – responsible for political culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e277	On the basis of how the case leading to the judgment against Timoshenko was brought, there is probably little reason to expect the trial to take place. On the contrary, there is every reason to express great concern about an ever-increasing deterioration in the human rights situation both in Ukraine and in countries in the region, such as the United Kingdom. in Belarus. This is something Norway needs to flag clearly that we do not accept – just as our closest neighbours and allies do. A few days ago, there were a number of bombs in one of Ukraine's largest cities, and speculation in Kiev goes, among other things. that this is what the authorities themselves are behind, precisely to remove the attention from the case of Timoshenko. We know that there are parliamentary elections for the autumn and, in particular, on the part of the European Union, it has been pointed out that Janukovich's party can avoid one of its worst competitors by holding Timoshenko in prison. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs assess the possibility of an open, free and fair elections in Ukraine this autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e286	There's every reason to be concerned that this isn't going to be open, free and fair. That's because of what we've seen in previous elections. Nevertheless, I believe it is important that we now fully hold Ukraine responsible for the proper conduct of appeal proceedings, even though we may be sceptical about it, that we assume that elections are held in a proper way, even though we may be skeptical about it, and that we are using all the opportunities we have through observers, presence and diplomatic work to influence it. Norway has also joined all European measures vis-à-vis Belarus. EU countries withdrew their ambassadors. The challenge is what it takes to send them back, and they do now – ambassadors are now returning to Belarus. It's a confession – also because you want to influence the place. So here I think there's an active interaction between keeping the authorities responsible and not evading to also use the pressure, as it was done to Belarus. It can also happen with Ukraine, a country that stands and tilts in relation to where influence is going – against Euroatlantic integration or against greater dependence on Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e291	Three follow-up questions are raised – first by Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e294	I share the questioner's view that there has been little new government policy on Ukraine and the worsening of the political situation that has taken place in Ukraine. I also fully share the problem of a lack of response from Stortinget. In the Business Committee, when we were discussing the ratification of a free trade agreement between the EFTA States and Ukraine, it is only the opposition parties that are behind a remark that we are critical of the situation – that the judgment against Timoshenko ‘appears to be politically motivated’, that the Free Trade Agreement ‘makes it particularly important for Ukraine to demonstrate that its obligations regarding democracy, human rights and legal certainty are taken seriously’, and that ‘there are significant challenges related to transparency and corruption’. These are things that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now drawing up in connection with the question from Ine M. Eriksen Soreide. Why does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that the parties to the government choose to stand aside from comments like this, on which there should have been cross-political agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e302	With respect for the distribution here, I'm going to answer for how we work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Then I'm sure those debates are going on in the Foreign Affairs Committee. For Norway, I believe that we have been a very clear voice, together with other European countries, in terms of the commitments Ukraine has. But we need to find a balance where we integrate the country into these European institutions, the international cooperation arrangements, among others. through trade, including: through the possibility of travelling, the work of the Council of Europe, the work of the OSCE, the Convention obligations that they will have – then we must have access – while, of course, expressing our opinion both on a case-by-case basis and in principle when the legal system does not meet its objectives, when there are violations of human rights – which we have reason to fear – and not least when there is too much corruption and lack of trust in the institutions. Ukraine is among those countries for which there is the most reason to be concerned. The same applies to Belarus, which is in this intermediate phase. We want to move towards European principles and standards and will do everything we can to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e311	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e314	The serious situation of human rights and legal certainty in Ukraine is not unique in the case of countries of the former Soviet Union. Well, 20 years ago, we thought we were getting together on common values. Now it might look like you're almost permanently dividing the continent, to the extent that. The Council of Europe and the OSCE have been referred to. They do not necessarily appear to be effective organisations to reverse this trend and trend. What I want to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether we can see if we have any effective means of meeting this situation. Ukraine has been mentioned and Belarus has been mentioned. We can go to Azerbaijan, and we can continue the journey in quite tragic developments in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e321	First of all, you can start by acknowledging that we do not have an obvious tool that we can use, and that then corrects the situation exactly as we want, and that introduces the rule of law, stability, democracy, human rights according to standards we believe lives up to it. We don't have one. That's why there's a set of tools we have to use. I actually believe that a more open world economy, developing societies that can survive there, is one important tool that is available. Countries with failing institutions and increasing corruption are failing in this international, more open economic image. That is why I believe that we must, as I said, use instruments from the institutions, conventions and obligations of the countries - the Council of Europe, the OSCE, etc., including the United Nations - and then we must work to ensure that market economy rule of law is applied in the way we deal with those countries, through what we might have of works of agreement, free trade agreements, etc., in order to help them get into the right direction. But this isn't easy, and it's deep counterclaims towards such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e326	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e329	I can agree with the foreign minister in one thing: it would hardly make any sense if Norway were to declare that we boycott football-EM in Ukraine. In order to boycott an event, you should be qualified for it first. But what was probably ine M. Eriksen Soreide's point was whether Norway will follow the line that some other European countries have taken, namely to declare that Norway will not travel to Ukraine at a high level, in the situation that is now so unclear about the situation of the former Prime Minister. The second question I want to ask is whether Norway will support the requirement that, among other things, have come from Human Rights Watch and others, about an immediate and independent investigation of what has happened around the apparent clear abuse of Timoshenko in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e338	To conclude, I would like to say that any kind of clarity around the kind of suspicion of abuse of people in prison will support Norway. There are also things we've taken up before it came from this important organization, through our diplomats in Kiev, in a group of countries working specifically to focus on one matter and some other matters. On the issue of not supporting high-level visits to Ukraine, I am not prepared to conclude. I do not see that it is a single European message, it comes from a little different teams, but it is positive that there are statements coming that increase the pressure on the regime in Ukraine. But we have experience from some countries in a similar category – if I may say so – that isolation is not necessarily the way that leads to reform forces, further development, going straight ahead. I don't want to rule it out, but we need to look at what it can be, how it's coordinated, and how it can also help bring about positive changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e345	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e348	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. An overall increase has been devoted to combating coerciveness. It is our duty to prevent our citizens from getting married against their will. One of the measures introduced was a maintenance requirement to ensure that there were independent persons who received a spouse and had income that could support him. But the government has chosen to tighten the requirements. From 1 January 2010, the maintenance requirement has been increased to approx. NOK 230 000. There have been several examples of how it has turned out unreasonable. Kristin and Andrew met in New Zealand. They had children, and, like many others, Kristin chose to be home with the children one year when they were young – in 2009. Therefore, she had not met the income requirement that was when they applied for reunification – although she had a stable, good and safe job to get to in Statoil in Norway, and even though he was a specialist. Another example: Hanne from Hamar joined Brian from Canada when they studied at Ålesund in 2008. They got married last year and applied for family reunification. But Hanne had earned 986 kroner – under the tip of a thousand – too little in 2010. Last week Brian had to get on the plane and go back to Canada. Another family was split up. The UDI, which governs the legislation, has asked to be allowed to take reasonable account because they believe that there are too many notables in which the rules just seem unreasonable. Why does the Council of State consider it so important that UDI cannot take reasonable account of such examples as this, which are tragic to the parties involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e361	I am aware that the rule of maintenance requirements is perceived as unreasonable in some cases. These include: some of the examples mentioned by the representative, which now allow the government to follow this practice carefully and also assess the need for change. UDI has reported, on behalf of the Ministry, the unintended effects of the constraints made in the maintenance requirement of the new Foreign Affairs Act, which entered into force in 2010. We are, among other things, in the light of this UDI reporting, in the process of carrying out the review. In particular, we will consider whether aspects of today's legislation seem unreasonablely restrictive to children's right to family reunification with their parents. We have already given several instructions to the UDI that follow up some of their recommendations. I'm also looking to get these evaluated before the summer. Besides, it's too early to go into concrete conclusions that can come, but where we don't ignore the fact that it's right to make any adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e370	I am pleased that the Council of State suggested that adjustments may be needed, but I am still upset that the adjustments cannot be made more quickly. Because there are actually people involved, there are people who today feel that father or mother have to go home, or that the spouse is sent out of the country, only because – as the examples show – one had earned 986 kroner too little, and one was at home one year. Therefore, UDI could not take into account the income of the year, future income, spouse's income, etc. There are considerations that should have been easy to follow. One should be able to see that this gives unreasonable results. At least it's not about coercion. So I can't understand what's hard to give UDI the ability to take reasonable consideration, to use discretion, to see that there are individuals that are involved, and that there are differences between the different families.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e376	The basic reasons behind the maintenance requirements do not make me feel that questions have been asked. But it is true, as the representative says, that we must always focus on whether the legislation nevertheless gives unfortunate results on some points. That's what the background is for us to obtain information, go through it, and also have opened up to make adjustments in some areas, and how the plan is to come back with concrete proposals as soon as we have clarified this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e381	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e384	Today’s family reunification policy in Norway has enormous consequences for many families. We see that immigration policy concerns go ahead of family unity and also the best for children. Few things are more invasive in a person's life than being deprived of the right to a family life. Today, many children and spouses and partners in Norway live apart from their families. Norway has a practice in this field that is much stricter than in many other European countries. Now the government has promised a decoration of the legislation for a long time. It is not about any major legislative changes that open all doors to Norway. There are small changes and adjustments to practices that will have an enormous impact on the families concerned. Will the Minister of Justice include: ensure that the best interests of children are taken into account when we come to what is involved in family reunification – and not as is the case today, where immigration-regulating considerations weigh more heavily?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e393	The representative pointed out that immigration policy considerations are at the forefront of other considerations. Yes, in some things they do. That's how it's been practiced, as far as I know, by all governments in recent years. Both in the government now responsible and in the governments in which the Christian People's Party has joined, it has been that, in some cases, immigration policy considerations still weigh so heavily that, although there are reasons that could be an isolated basis for residence, there is still a refusal to stay on the basis of immigration policy considerations. However, the importance of children must of course be heavy, and it is one of the most important topics for us to discuss in depth in the communication on refugees that is planned to be presented before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e398	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e401	I agree with the Minister of Justice on the issue of immigration policy. It is clear that you can look for unreasonableness. There are many unfairnesses, depending on which eyes look. I would like to see it from the local authorities. Then I will refer you to a notice in the evening post on 22 March. In Svelgen municipality in Sogn and Fjordane there is a person who will pick up eleven children and a wife for the municipality, while he still has eleven children and another wife. There's the recipe that once you've got a family reunion with your wife, no. 1 and the eleven first children, you're going to get a divorce, and then you're going to get reunited with your wife's number. 2 and remaining children. For a small municipality like Swallow, it's a great unfairness and a great challenge. So my question to the Council of State is, what do you do to prepare and relieve the municipalities of accepting some of the family reunions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e406	I'm not hiding that the housing challenge is great in Norway today. We have too many asylum seekers who are still in reception, even if they have the right to stay in Norway and are to be settled in our municipalities. We therefore work closely together – responsible departments and municipalities – both in terms of housing allowances, and in terms of other measures related to ensuring a good start-up in different local settings. I do not know the specific matter and will refrain from commenting on it. However, it is important that we maintain good continuous contact with the municipalities in order to ensure that the legislation works as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e413	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e416	This is probably one of the areas in which asylum and immigration policy is being pursued. There are many stories that seem unreasonable, but very often you only hear one side of the case. It is important to have a proper regulatory framework here – and a regulatory framework that also takes individual considerations into account. The point that perhaps most people respond to, and that at least we get a lot of requests, is what the questioner was first about, and that the Minister of Justice also replied to, that it's the income of the year to be taken into account, and that it's very square where the boundaries go. Wouldn't it have been an idea – when one goes through this – to look at what people actually serve at the moment, that they have an established employment relationship that shows that they have fulfilled this maintenance requirement? The right considers that the maintenance requirement is important, but there must be room for individual interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e425	These are the topics for evaluation. There may be many reasons why people are in different situations of life from one year to the next, and to which the representative also pointed out, there is a fundamental broad consensus about entertainment requirements as it arises today. However, we need to examine whether the legislation nevertheless provides unforeseen and unreasonable results in some areas. We will therefore come back to this in a short time. There may be room for correction, it may be right to make changes in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e432	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e436	The Minister of Justice represents a government that makes a heroic and great effort to let people get married to people of whom you want, if you want to marry a man or a lady. But you really have to be careful not to fall in love outside the EEA under this government. That is much more restrictive. I have a question. When these rules were made, it was for two purposes: one was to avoid coercion, and one was to avoid people bringing in people they couldn't support. These are the two main objectives of this legislation. When it's so obvious that the practice does not reach the two goals – when you fall in love with a carpenter from New Zealand, who can come here and work, there's no great danger of coercion or of socializing – it's not about the objectives of the rules. What I'm asking is, why has it taken over a year from UDI to propose those changes, until you can make any changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e443	I feel that this is a repetition of the examples of how today's legislation works, which have also been reviewed by the respondents before today. There are examples that make it absolutely right to go through whether or not to correct. As I say, it's assumed that we're correcting on some points. However, these questions also indicate that work is being done correctly, properly, provided with information on the types of cases involved, and set new limits in a thorough, thoughtful manner. So the intention is to come back with suggestions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e450	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e453	My question goes to the Health and Welfare Council. The media focuses a lot on health, and that's very good. It is also good because they focus a lot on what is not so good in health care. We all need to underline – every time we have occasion – how well the health care we have in Norway. But despite that, we must all seek to improve. In recent times, TV 2 in particular has focused on some of the pharynx and the medicine Yervoy, which has an active substance that I will not even try to express. The people of Unni, Anne and Matias have given a face to get the difficult message about this cancer. Despite fighting for their lives, they're trying to access a medicine that Norwegian clinicians actually want. The Directorate-General for Health's expert group says no, and the Council itself has pointed out that the economy is one of the reasons – let it be. But the Council of State thus presents this as a unique piece of advice. We know that this is not even unique nationally. Clinics want to use the medicine, and politicians are not going to try it out – we agree on that. But medicine has been approved in the United States, it's approved in Europe. It's not right – as it's claimed – that it's been tested in a few, it's actually tested out on 10,000 patients. There are patients in Denmark who have lived for the fifth year, despite the fact that the Council of State says that there is a short life span, and there are little side effects, despite the fact that the Council of State has said that these are major side effects. Three-quarters actually have little or no side effects. Then the question is: why are you now paying attention to just one Norwegian environment and not to anyone abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e470	I first want to say that it impresses us all when we see faces and meet patients who have had a serious cancer, and there should be no doubt that the health care system in Norway is concerned about helping all those who get a serious disease, with safe and good treatment. Then, of course, this discussion, about the drugs to be used, is a discussion that also goes far beyond the borders of Norway. Because this is difficult and particularly demanding, the Health Directorate set up an independent expert group of Norway’s leading cancer doctors, representing the whole country, to evaluate four new cancer drugs, and this group decided to recommend three of them. In the case of one drug – against pelvic plaque – it is true that it has been used in some places in Denmark, and in one place in Sweden, as far as I know, but the authorities there are also in an assessment phase. I am also aware that the pharmaceutical authorities in America and in Europe have been asked to do a new study. Norway has said that we are interested in being part of it. That study, as far as I know, will start as early as next week. It is not clear which patients will be included in this study, who will be included in it, but this will be considered. There should be no doubt that there is the effect of the medicine that was the cause of the decision that was made, but of course we are concerned that patients who are seriously ill will be involved in further studies, and there will be new assessments if there is new information.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e481	That's how we get very shared signals from professional environments. It was on TV no later than a few days ago a Danish superior who has treated over 120 patients with this medicine, with quite good results. For the people involved, every day – yes, actually every second – is about survival. I choose to perceive the Council of State until she now opens up for us to study in Norway, but this is about the pace. There are many patients here every day, Norwegian oncologists want to use this medicine, and then it's urgent. When we get signals that this medicine is being used with quite good results – Denmark started using it six months ago, as the Council of State also said, Sweden has started, and also others – then the question is: Will the Council of State help us get this to test quickly in Norway, so that the patients who are now waiting can put it to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e488	If the independent expert group's evidence had shown that this medicine provided survival and so good results, it would have been used, but that was precisely the effect that it was not recommended in this round. Then there will be new studies, and we have said that Norway is of course interested in participating in the new studies. I would also like to stress that it is important that independent, experienced cancer doctors – along with the Cancer Association, together with permanent practitioners – take these assessments, and not the politicians. But there should also be no doubt that we spend a lot of money, and much more than the cost of this medicine, if it turns out that the medicine has an effect and actually gives survival.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e495	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and it is given an opportunity – first Kari Kjöna's Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e498	We have repeatedly heard that there is professional advice on the basis of which approval is to be granted. The Health Minister and several around her have claimed that the medicine is not considered life-prolonging and that it causes serious side effects. Both components are rejected by both patients and cancer specialists, and the expert group now says that they are open to reconsider if they are not on the right information. My question to the Minister of Health will then be: Can we be sure that a decision has been made on the right basis in relation to previous medicines that have been evaluated by this group of experts? And what will the Minister of Health do to restore confidence in the maintenance of the system of medical approval?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e505	I would like to stress that there is no reason for us in Norway not to trust our cancer doctors. It shows the results of international studies; OECD figures show that Norway is at the world peak in cancer survival. It must mean that our cancer doctors make correct and wise judgements. So it's like four medications were being evaluated. Three were recommended. These are costly medications for severe and severe cancers. The medicine in question is to be used in a study. Norway has agreed to join that study, and after I have been informed about it, it starts already next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e512	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e516	Norway has been slow to introduce new medicinal products and methods in the field of cancer. Fortunately, this has improved recently, but even now we see that we spend less resources on cancer treatment in the form of new drugs than the comparable Nordic country does. Does the Minister of Health see the need for better and faster decision-making systems related to the use of new medicinal products in this area? And not least, does the Minister of Health see that there is a need for us to be able to do so, for example. closer Nordic cooperation? It is now the case that areas are narrower, more complicated, and it is difficult to see that Norway alone can have sufficiently independent professional environments far ahead to take these types of assessments. In addition, there is always a basis for asking questions about whether these independent experts are so independent — if any, for example. are the heads of departments of departments responsible for the next use of the medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e523	It is the first time that such an independent expert group has been set up that also includes the Cancer Association and a permanent doctor. I don't think it should be suspected in this work, I think they've done a wise and thorough assessment based on what they've had of information. I do not readily agree that we are late to use medicines, but we are very concerned that the medicines to be used should be safe. The results for cancer indicate that it has not been completely wrong. But anyway, I'm very concerned that we have a unified system. That is why I have notified that there will be a uniform system for the whole country in connection with the Quality and Patient Safety Notice. This independent expert group was just an attempt to make an assessment that would apply to the whole country, because we have seen that it has used different medicines. I'm very much in favour of Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e532	Filip Back – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e535	There is no reason to suspect the expert group. However, we can see that there are relatively large differences between countries, and there also appears to be relatively large differences between patients, as some are allowed to participate in studies and others are not. The question – which has also been raised by others, but which I do not feel they have yet been answered – is what the Council of State and the Ministry will do to address precisely these differences between, for example: our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark and Norway. What can be done to achieve Nordic cooperation, but the most important thing to achieve a practice in Norway that we are safe to follow is medical development? We have had a necessary distinction between the pharmaceutical industry and the doctors, but it is important that technical developments take place and that we follow up on what comes from new medicines. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norway is at the forefront and that there are no unreasonable differences compared to our two neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e544	Last week this was a topic at an EU meeting and at a health minister’s meeting, because this is a problem that many countries have, with expensive cancer drugs coming in, and more cancer drugs are coming in. I again want to stress that it must be the independent experts who make these decisions, and not we politicians. Then, of course, we're going to make it easier for us to work together in the Nordic region. We've also done that, and we're busy being able to do that. Just – as was said in the previous question – because some of these cancers are rare, and for us to have a large enough group, it is important that we can cooperate. Now that we're also busy getting a similar system across Norway, it's because we've seen before that you've been using drugs in some hospitals, and not all of them. It's important to get in place. Of course, it would also be a good thing to get better cooperation in the Nordic region, so that we had a more similar practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e551	Then we go to the next and the last main questions of the day, from the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e554	The Minister of Health can only stand still. Many older people and their relatives are anxious not to be able to have a nursing home or a nursing home when they need it. In the last, in the debate on Norwegian care for the elderly, a lot of people have moved forward the Fredericia model in Denmark and the strong desire to live at home for as long as possible, and that people should be helped to stay at home longer. That is entirely in agreement with the Right. But a prerequisite for living at home and staying at home for a long time is that one knows that the day you need a nursing home or a nursing home, there is actually a free space. Anxiety leads to a lot of people applying for it before they want it, because they're afraid that the place isn't there when they need it. Many municipalities lack sick homes and nursing homes, and many are not prepared for the increased need that comes in the years to come. Several times over several years, the right has addressed the need for one here to use all the good forces, including private housing teams or non-profit institutions, which can be with the municipalities and solve the task of providing full hospital coverage and full coverage of day care and care. So we were very happy when the government in January last year went out with fire and bram, with the Prime Minister at the head, and said that the legislation would now be changed. The government had finally realized that there was a need to also use the private to achieve the government's goal of 12,000 more seats. Now we've got the result, and the status is that it's gotten harder. Yes, in fact, the Workers' Party, at its own municipal council in Trondheim, says that it has now become more difficult to build nursing homes in collaboration with private people. What will the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e567	There should be no doubt that for the government it is important to expand the care sector – because we see that there is a need for it, and because projections also mean that we now have a window of time both in terms of building up capacity in places, building up skills – where we have come quite far – and in terms of improving quality in the care sector. We've also been concerned that more people could be involved in the expansion because we would like to have progress in the expansion, even if we can say that we're halfway, at half the race, in the expansion. But it hasn't taken off the way we might have wanted, even though there are municipalities that have started with a lot of spaces, without the municipalities being the owner of these places. We increased the grant. We increased the opportunities for cooperation with ideals as well as with housing construction teams and other commercial ones if the municipalities wanted it. Since this has been on the agenda and it has been announced that this is difficult, I have taken the initiative to meet with the House Bank, with the housing law and with the KS to see what is the bottleneck. I register that some municipalities, among others. Haugesund and Bamble, have set in motion such a building. But we'll see what's the difficulty, because we're busy getting this to. The grant is awarded to the municipalities upon application. Municipalities can rent places, e.g. in a housing team, if the housing team is built with a contractual period of 30 years, which is one of the conditions. But we're going to go through this thoroughly. We're concerned that we're going to make progress in the expansion. Because although we have said that we will have 12 000 commitments by 2015, we are committed to building as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e578	Both the housing construction teams and the association of employees say that the rules have become more difficult and that they are giving up the opportunity to contribute. In Trondheim, Trondheim and Omgn Boligbyrelag have an empty area. They want to build, and the municipality wants them to build, but they don't get it with the existing legislation. The right has suggested that the legislation for building private hospitals should be as simple as it was for building private kindergartens. Then you had a ten-year binding period. There was only a need for approval from the municipality that there was actually a need for the places. Then you could seek and get funds directly through the county to build up spaces. What makes the government consider having such a much more complicated system with regard to nursing homes than you had with regard to kindergartens? Can't the government now just realize that the easiest thing is to copy the system that was a success for kindergartens, and transfer it to private, non-profit and residential communities that want to build nursing homes? Then we can achieve the goal of full health care coverage as quickly as the goal of full child care coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e585	:We just want to provide opportunities both for ideals and for housing units. That's exactly why I have initiated a meeting, so we're going to look at what makes you find out in some municipalities that this is difficult, while in other municipalities you can get this done and get to the goal. There should be no doubt that we are concerned about progress in this development. Although, as Bent Höie says, most people want to stay at home for as long as possible, it's so that there must be a place the day you need it. That's what the government's goal is. That's what we work for. Of course, we are concerned that it should be just as easy to build hospitals. It turns out to be a little bit heavier to get to the progress we want. But we're going to do what we can to get rid of these bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e592	There will be two follow-up questions – first the representative Arve Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e596	From the Right we believe that what the government has laid down is too complicated. It is too bureaucratic, and there are far too strict demands for investment grants. One example of this is Sister Nina's nursing home in Jevnaker, which, since the 1950s, has operated 34 private places and now wants to modernise and rebuild into 50 rooms. They do not receive investment grants because the host municipality has full coverage. Those who use this are the municipality of Oslo, the municipality of Gjerdrum, the municipality of Ringerijke and not the municipality of Jevnaker. Thus there are no municipalities that can, or should provide a guarantee for 30 years for this hospital. The result is that they have been doing a reconstruction project for years – everyone wants it, but the government has made such a bad regulation that it has forgotten the inter-municipal offers in private to solve the queues, preferably in connection with the Cooperation Reform. How will the Council of State contribute to the funding of inter-municipal offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e603	There is nothing wrong with the fact that several municipalities can go together and build up, whether they are local medical centres, or there are hospitals. We increased the grant last year, so that we now receive a subsidy of 916 000 kroner per hospital and 687 000 kroner per day care seat. There's nothing wrong with the municipalities being able to build. It is the municipalities that have to assess whether they need this or not. If they want to cooperate with others – with non-profits or with housing companies – this is the reason. I have also received feedback that someone experiences this as too complicated. Others are able to implement it – among others. Haugesund has managed to do it. Then we have to think about what makes you do it in Haugesund, while you don't get it to other places. Then we have also started a project under the direction of Fafo, which looks at what makes some municipalities succeed in developing care for the elderly, while others do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e610	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn – to the last follow-up question of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e613	In the context of the changes in investment grants to lucky days places, the Progress Party proposed almost a doubling of the State grant. We also added 3.5 billion. kr in earmarked operational funds in our alternative state budget. Now the government has promised nursing homes to anyone who wants and needs it. But so far, the net increase in hospitalization places is only approx. Nine hundred fifty. It's a long way from what's needed for anyone who wants exclusive to be able to get it. We also see that the hospital is converted into a cabin, and that old and sick people have to pay up to NOK 5000 for the month of 12 m2. So there's a huge privatisation of the care arenas. The question then is what new grip the government will now bring, as their policy obviously does not work. What new steps will the government take, so that we can get enough sick homes to cover this in relation to the one-room reform, which was promised already in 1996, and the demographic developments we see are coming quite quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e623	I do not agree that the government's policy is not working. At the end of the course of the development plan we are in, we have awarded in final applications approx. 5,600 places. That means we're about halfway up to 2015. We're concerned that it's going to be faster to expand. That is why we also opened up so that if the municipality wants to do so, the ideal housing teams and others could cooperate with the municipality. Then I would also like to stress that we have got 22,000 new employees into the care sector. It's a formidable quality promise, because the vast majority of those who come in are competent. This means that we have opportunities to both provide care at home and provide care in a nursing home. But I also see that this is a sector on which we must constantly build up and focus. Bad examples that come out still remind us of it. Therefore, it is important that we succeed in achieving this promise of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e639	There will be one change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment is proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 14, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is absent, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e652	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Prime Minister: ‘The working party promised in 2007 ‘12000 new sick home or nursing places by 2015’. In 2009, the Prime Minister blogged that ‘if the need is greater, there will be 12,000 new hospitals and nursing homes or more.’ However, growth in sites is limited by rehabilitation, improvement and replacement of rehabilitated sites. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health maintain that the promise is being honoured. Can the Prime Minister confirm if 12,000 new places mean 12,000 more places?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e661	One of the finest things that happens in our country is that we get older. More people live longer. There is hardly any better expression of progress than that. At the same time, more older people will mean that more people will need care. In addition, there are many younger users of care services. This was the background to the 2015 care plan and the 2007 conciliation. In line with the Storting decision, we are going to do a lot of things, not least about quality, competence and more employees. We set ourselves the goal of 12,000 more annual works. We're on the right track to achieve this goal. Another goal we set is 12,000 new places in nursing homes and nursing homes with luck care. We need more spaces and more common space for activity. We also know that there are still too many people who do not have exclusive rooms, who do not have their own bathroom – or too many places that are not adapted to the denture. The fact that we both need to replace old, bad construction with new ones and, in addition, increase the number of places has been underlined several times by the government. To achieve the target of 12000 places, a new earmarked investment grant was proposed in the care plan. This subsidy was first submitted to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2007 in the draft government budget for 2008. Here's what it says: «The grant shall finance both increased capacity and replacement and renovation of old and unsuitable buildings.» The same message has been repeated in the State budgets for 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. It has therefore always been clear that the 12,000 new places will replace both old, bad places and increase the number of places. We want capacity and quality. We want more exclusive, private baths for the residents and units adapted to demente. This is a desired policy on the part of the government. It would not have been possible to have a grant scheme that only went to municipalities that had too few places, while municipalities that had very poor places did not receive a grant. It takes several years to plan and complete nursing homes. Therefore, there will also be municipalities that have received a grant commitment by 2015, which will complete their building after that. We have strengthened the grant scheme along the way. Last year we increased the investment grant by 40 pst. Now we see that this is giving us results. A total of around 5,650 units have been committed up to now. We're about halfway at half the race. I am pleased that the municipalities prioritise the development of both capacity and quality in care. It shows that we are united on important objectives for services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e690	Of course, it could be interesting to know what the voters thought when the head of the Workers' Party looked into the TV camera and said that they would build 12,000 new hospitals. Most people thought like us -- we believed at the time that there was going to be new places. The Prime Minister and I were debating this topic in the 2007 election campaign. We pointed out that building 12,000 new sites would hardly meet the need. What we are now seeing is that we are going to slow down in terms of the needs coverage in relation to the number of older people, while pushing ahead of us a large, new wave of elderly people who are going to need a nursing home after 2015. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: How many new places does the Prime Minister think he needs to meet what he said in the blog, to build more if the need is greater?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e699	Firstly, there has never been any doubt that the new places will replace both bad, old places and help increase the total number. I quoted from the landfill proposal that was presented in 2007, and it has been repeated in the state budgets every year. Point 1: The 12 000 places are to replace poor institutional places where, for example: has no bathroom, has no exclusive or common areas, with good new spaces – increasing quality – has been clear all along. Point 2: It's an honest thing that the Right believes that we're going to use even more and bet even more. It meant the Right already in 2007. But we're doing what we said we were going to do, and that I've explained in detail to the Storting. We have also said that it is important to consider that different people have different needs. That is why we are now strengthening further what is happening in terms of home-based services. I think many want more of home-based services, both several year works and the use of more modern technology. I think some people want nursing homes, while others want nursing homes – that will vary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e710	This is not really an additional question, it is the same question as my previous question, which the Prime Minister did not answer, namely: How many completely new places – how much increase in demand – does the government really think you're going to need in the years to come? The older part of the population is going to grow, especially after 2015, and, as the Prime Minister said, it is late to plan, and it takes a long time to build these places. Is it such that the Prime Minister intends to be in arrears in providing the elderly with the help they need, or is he going to be in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e717	We've fixed the number of new places we're going to build. We're on track to reach that. We both have to raise the quality and increase the number. We have numerically fixed the number of new annual works, and we are in front of the form to achieve that goal. Then we haven't distributed all the other numbers, simply because we think it's up to the municipalities to decide how this increased effort best provides better care for the elderly. That is, some people are going to put a lot of money into home-based services; it's going to reduce the need for institutions. Some people will bet on nursing homes, others will think that the most important thing here is to bet on nursing homes. That diversity – the variations – we believe Norwegian care for the elderly is well served. It is essential that we now put more money into it, expand more than in the past, both in terms of places and in terms of annual work. Overall, this means strengthening Norwegian care for the elderly. So we're doing what we said we were going to do, replacing bad, old rooms without a bath with new, nice rooms and increasing the number.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e728	‘On 20 March 2012, the Government Party voted against the Right’s proposals that municipalities should get a bigger decision on motor traffic issues in outland. In the United Nations on 20 April we can read that representative Thomas Breen of the Workers' Party assumes that the Workers' Party will let the municipalities control the shooting traffic according to the planning and building laws, and refuse to support SV's wishes for new distributions. State Secretary Sørensen said in the same newspaper that there will be no quick modification proposals. When will the Stortinget have a new case of motorcycling in the field, and will new arrangements be made?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e735	If I may, I would like to make a few comments first on a letter I have received from the President of the Grand Duchy on behalf of the Presidency on my expiry of Question Time last Wednesday. There the presidency writes that it was a very critical decay. As you know, there may be good grounds for decay in Stortinget, but I agree with what the letter says that it was due – my maturity – last Wednesday was highly critical. I also want to add that it was unfortunate, all the time I know very well what has the highest priority for a government council in his doing, that's the Stortinget. So in time, I want to make sure to follow it up. So to the question. I refer to former Minister for the Environment and Development Erik Solheim's statements in the Stortinget in March of this year during the debate in the handling of Document No. 8:40 S for 2011–2012, a debate I have read in the meantime – I have also noticed the representative’s comments. The council said that the government will see if there is any chance of meeting the municipalities by giving them greater authority to decide if they will open up snowmobile loops. The Ministry now assesses it. There's a lot of care that needs to be considered here. It is absolutely central that any solutions take into account animal life, terrain and vegetation, outdoor life and the need for quiet and quiet. A possible availability for municipalities to establish snowmobile loops will require changes to the law with the previous wide hearing. I want to come back to the question of whether it is relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e744	Then the President will first notice that he accepts the timely comment that the Council of State made in the opening of its reply. One then has a common understanding of the importance of the roles between the Storing and the Government, and thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e747	It's interesting to hear what the council says, that one here should consider coming back with a new case for Stortinget. After the USS national meeting on 19 March, the Labour Party and the Center Party have created great expectations that there will be a new case for Stortinget. There are also strong expectations that this matter will be resolved, that there is already room for greater decision-making by the municipalities when it comes to motor travel in the countryside. What the Council of State is now saying is in conflict – it is still to be appreciated here. My question goes back to the Council of State: Can the Council of State guarantee that there will be a case in 2012 about motor travel in the outlands where the municipalities get a bigger decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e759	What we're going to do is what former councillor Erik Solheim said in Stortinget on this occasion, and which I'm also now referring to, we're going to see if there's any way to meet the municipalities by giving them greater power of government to decide if they want to open up snowmobile loops. That's what we're now looking at, as I said. I've also started to think a lot about the scope of this case complex, and one of what I did was to read through the whole debate to get a picture of just what different perceptions the different parties in the Storting have. It was a useful and interesting background for my work on the case, because it shows how different parties and different big business representatives who are strongly engaged look at this. But in addition, it's necessary that I go deeper into the whole matter. Then we'll see if we can meet the municipalities more by opening up for establishment and possibly coming back with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e766	Right has brought up the case of motorcycling in outlands repeatedly because we think this is about local democracy, it's about who's most capable of taking these kinds of decisions. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government does not respond, both when it comes to the testing arrangements that have been set up and when it comes to a new law. Right means that local democracy is best placed to take these kinds of decisions. The Planning and Building Act is very clear and a very good hub where you can use Planforum and other bodies to get a case out, and where municipalities have the primary responsibility for progress. That is why, as mentioned in the debate in Stortinget, it is also a scandal that these test schemes have not been passed and that there has not been a new case of motor travel in the field. Does the Council of State Right support its view that this is a matter in which local democracy and local government are best placed to make decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e773	I think I might have reserved the outline of ‘candals’ for some other things than this, not least because the same legislation that these municipalities had during the experiment has been passed on. But what I agree with is that we are now going to enter this case complex as quickly as advisable, and we're going to see if it's desirable, and need, to make changes. It said the then State Council Solheim in Stortinget not long ago. I have already started to evaluate this, but there are a number of different considerations that need to be assessed. I have also noticed that both the representative Lødemel and others in the debate are very clear that there should be no freedom of movement, that there are changes that can be different from what they are in favour of. I want to work carefully on the matter and assess whether it is appropriate to return to Stortinget with changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e786	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Last year and the year before, TV 2 had a number of reports focusing on breaches of statutory rights. In the context of the examination of Document 8:36 S for 2010-2011 on a comprehensive review of breaches of statutory rights, the government asked a unanimous increase to assess the sanctioning instrument. It has now been a year since the matter was dealt with in Stortinget. What has been done so far, and when can the Storting expect to be presented with the government's assessment of the sanctioning apparatus with regard to breaches of statutory rights?»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e795	On 12 April 2011, the Stortinget considered the position of the Judicial Committee on a proposal by the representatives of Eriksson, Höie, Skei Grande and Sandberg that the government should bring an action before the Stortinget for a breach of unlawful rights, Innst. 297 S for 2010–2011. The decision of the Trustee shall be based on the annex to the proposal. However, the opinion contains a comment from the Committee that different control mechanisms should be considered and a comment from the majority of the Committee that it is appropriate to consider whether the health oversight and the State should be given sanctioning powers in respect of the fulfilment of rights under, inter alia, the rights conferred. the Social Services Act and the Training Act. The majority of the Committee noted that when local authorities have municipal autonomy and individual rights, it is important that control mechanisms and complaint procedures are in place. During the debate on the matter, the then Minister of Justice, Storberget, said that he wanted to address the issue of sanctions with the state councils concerned, and that in an appropriate form, he would return to the Stortinget regarding this matter. The draft representative on which the deliberations were based was very general. The Committee's notes address more specific issues of control and penalties relating to rights under special care law and school legislation. The responsibility for the law on rights which is central here is shared by several departments. The Ministry of Justice and Defence coordinates the follow-up work requested by the majority of the Committee. A meeting at the level of the Office was held last November on the issue of sanctions for the Health Authority and County State. Representatives of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Justice and Defence took part. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church is also involved. After the meeting, work has continued on the issue in several departments, but no conclusions have yet been drawn on the reality. I am aware that the matter is important, and hope to be able to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate form during this calendar year. Because it involves several departments, however, I can't promise anything exactly as far as the time of completion is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e806	Thanks for the answer. I have also gone through what the Council of State said, and just to quote a little bit: in the debate on 12 April, the then Council of State of Storberget says: ‘In fact, in line with the demand for a comprehensive investigation into the functioning of rights, I believe that it will be more effective for those responsible for this, whether in the Ministry of Health or in the Minister of Renewal, to take that assessment, but at the end of the day it is the government that is responsible for it.’ That's exactly what we're seeing. Every day, there are new cases where people are not granted their rights in our welfare system. I think it takes too long. It is the government as a college that is responsible for ensuring that those who have the most use for our welfare services are granted their statutory rights. How high on the agenda will the Council of State put this? Will she make sure that the turns go faster than what has happened so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e818	This is an important matter, and it involves many departments. The recommendation in the note was formulated quite generally, so it has taken some time to define how the problem can best be further worked on. Various tasks have been given priority in the ministry, not least in the light of – unfortunately – the unforeseen events on 22 July last year. But I will seek to get back to the matter as soon as possible. The plan is to do so during this calendar year. And let me just correct: there was a "u" too much in my script. Clearly, we are talking about legal and not illegal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e827	Thank you for the important clarification and clarification from the Council of State, for there is a significant difference. I fully understand that there are many departments involved. This also indicates the problems that many of our users are facing, precisely that they are sent from one door to the other, that no one has overall, overall responsibility, but that it is powdered, fragmented — divided into several departments, several departments and several other authorities. At the same time, no one has a concrete overview of the statutory rights adopted by the Grand Duchy. In my opinion, such a comprehensive overview should have been obtained. You should also have collected the rights, so that it would have been easier for the users and the agencies to deal with them. Will the Council of State ensure that this work brings together the rights and provides a full overview – which is also presented to the Stortinget – of the statutory rights of Norwegian citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e836	The provision of benefits to vulnerable groups by the legislator is essential — the issue of effective supervision as well. At the same time, it is also important to stress that the penalty option issue should not be seen as a sleeping cushion for those parts of the administration that already have primary responsibility for the benefits in question. Their obligations are on their own and must be fulfilled – regardless of the question of the penalties to be imposed on both established and, where appropriate, new supervisory powers. We will come back to the questions that Stortinget has affected in its position, and address them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e847	I have the following question: ‘On 24 April 2012, during the first part of the transport from the prison he was in, a Lithuanian escaped to the Mos Sea Court where he was going to meet. Afterwards, it has been suggested that the task of this transport was assigned to two young women police students. It is my clear belief that the police have an obligation to assess the dangers of escape and other aspects of such transport. Does the Council of State think that this has been fully safeguarded all the time he has been able to leave without major problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e854	I have submitted the question to the Police Directorate, who has again obtained information from the Chief of Police in Helgeland. The Chief of Police has informed: The prison in question escaped in connection with the surrender from the Mos Sea to the police. The prisoner was to be made in the context of the main negotiation. From video footage on-site, you can see that the police are driving into the prison yard, and that they are reversing the service car against the door to the prison. The officials leave the car and open the back door in the police car as the prisoner comes down the stairs from the prison. He comes alone when the jailer stopped at the door on the stairs. The prisoner goes against the officials and the police car as he suddenly starts running towards the prison gate. He jumps over this and disappears. This is going very quickly, and the officials are unable to prevent this. The police used one of the police's detainees and two police students for the presentation. This was decided after carrying out a risk assessment, where the responsible official found that there was no escape risk. In this context, a decisive emphasis was placed on past experience in the production of the prisoner and that no other information was available on the dangers of escape. The police in Helgeland always assess the dangers of escape in the productions. The main reason for the escape seems to be a routine failure. Police and prison are in the process of reviewing the procedures for handing over prisoners. It does not seem appropriate to do this in the prison yard and not in a safe zone. This will be changed. Furthermore, of course, experience will also have an impact on future risk assessment for the manufacture and transport of prisoners.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e867	I thank you for the recognition and acceptance of responsibility – at least I think it is timely, so that we avoid the unfair response of those responsible for the transport here in their system. But anyway, according to my knowledge, at least the Mos Sea is missing an internal security guard. According to my information, it has been addressed through the criminal justice system since 2006, without hearing about it. Had you had two fences, it would certainly have helped this situation, just as a higher gate might have helped the problem. All the time when the Council of State refers to the experiences and confessions of the police chief and his armory in the Mosque, the Council of State believes it is time to look at others – I kept saying – more technical solutions within prison, which are also part of security, and which could help us to have a Lithuanian behind lock and hit and not one on the freefoot?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e876	So this is an event that has caused a review and a change in procedures, and it is of course important to avoid these kinds of situations in the future. As far as our institutions are concerned, there is in these days a capacity plan for treatment in the central government of criminal law. This is a review of all the institutions and other forms of reaction we have, and what institutions or regulations they require. We'll probably be able to come back to the question of whether there has to be further investment in the existing building mass we have, or whether there are other measures that are necessary. On the standing foot I am not aware whether there are any proposals for reinforcements at the prison in the Lake of Mosque.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e883	Since the Minister of Finance is also present, I will be careful to raise money questions here. But I think it's good that the Council of State itself draws it up as a possible challenge. Again: I have been informed that the Mosjö prison – as it appears today – does not actually have the formal approvals in order, because there are some fuses that are required to be present. If it's true that it's been first reported in 2006, according to my sources, it's been six years. Then it's interesting to think: how long does the Council of State think it's necessary to consider such a need, if there are regulations on how it's supposed to be built and organized? It shouldn't take six years. Or is it that you sometimes have to have this kind of -- let me call it -- unfortunate circumstances before you take it seriously and make changes, rather than having a policy that goes on going on, and as long as it goes on, it's not a problem? What is the Council of State's response to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e888	I cannot accept that there is a link between the single event and any physical assumptions relating to the institution in the Sea of Mosque. However, it is a well-known case that the maintenance challenges associated with our prisons are great, and that there is therefore also a separate plan for how to meet this, where State Building has the central role. Significant improvements and maintenance are being carried out in our facilities. Then, of course, there is also a review of whether new investments should be made, not least in security. We have e.g. a concrete case related to Ila, where a proposal was also submitted to the Stortinget to investigate, for example. the question of a new coal host solution at that facility. We'll probably get back to this on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e899	‘There is a political consensus on zero vision in road traffic. The target is still far away. Unfortunately, many people die each year or are seriously injured in accidents on Norwegian roads. Danish researchers have documented a clear correlation between the age of the car and the extent of the damage. The researchers believe the severity of the damage is proportional to the age of the car. Norwegian car fleet is now at its historical peak of 10,5 years as an average. Norwegian taxes make new, safe cars expensive. Active renewal of the fleet requires action. What is the government's plan?'
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e906	Traffic deaths have decreased in recent years. I'm glad. There are several possible reasons for the reduction. Traffic safety is a factor that is added to the weight when we design the car charges. This is done both through the user fee on fuel and the one-off fee. The user charge intends to address the costs of car use to society. Accidents are an important factor. Other costs are e.g.: queue, wear and tear and environmentally harmful emissions. The one-off fee is designed to take into account, inter alia: environment and road safety. The fee has a separate weight component, including: because heavier cars may cause greater damage in the event of an accident. Heavy-duty cars can increase the safety of the person inside the car, but may cause greater damage to other road users. In addition, the conversion of the one-off fee by the government in an environmentally friendly way has resulted in lower taxes on environmentally friendly cars. This allows more people to buy new cars as long as they have low CO2 emissions. I believe that the relationship between charging policy and road safety is more complex than what is referred to in the question. The high average age of cars in Norway may be due to several factors. If you look at the average age of a Norwegian passenger car, it was 10.3 years in 2008, in Sweden it was 9.5 years and 11 years in Finland. Finland has a higher average age in the car park than Norway despite having lower one-off charges. Sweden does not have a one-off fee. Neither does Germany and England. However, the average age of the car park in Germany and England is significantly lower than in Sweden, 8.2 years and 6.9 years respectively. This suggests that there are more conditions than the charges themselves that affect the age of the car park. The government has a strong desire to reduce the number of accidents in traffic. Car charges are one tool. However, there are other instruments. There may be increased control activities, campaigns, improved road standards with multiple motorways and more mid-driving. This is a work that has contributed to a reduction in the number of fatalities and heavy road damage. In addition, I would like to stress the responsibility that we, as drivers and road users, also have to prevent and prevent road accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e924	Thanks for the answer. It is clear that environmental considerations are more important than safety considerations. This question is originally addressed to the Minister for Transport. The Minister of Transport has the primary responsibility for zero vision: no fatal and serious damage to road traffic. But precisely through the fiscal policy, for which the Minister of Finance has the primary responsibility, the government also has the main tool. The president of the Volvo says on 11 April this year to the Nettavis: ‘The half of all fatal accidents could have been avoided by technology on which the State imposes an additional levy.’ The example that was used and referred to is a Volvo XC60 with front steel bars that trigger safety systems on smaller cars that it hits in front collisions. So the car becomes more “considerable”, but also heavier. Then the tax will increase to the state. Why does the government punish those who want safe cars, and how long will this continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e938	As I said in my answer, the charging of cars plays a role, but there are also many other issues that play an important role. I also referred to the weight component, which – and which can so far draw a little in the opposite direction of what I hear in the supplementary question – is designed so that heavier cars have a greater charge. I can agree with the questioner that it is important to also assess the tax regime for cars in the context of road safety and safety on cars, in the same way that it is important to assess environmental considerations and emissions. We have announced a comprehensive review of the car charges, and I can promise that we will take the view that one should also be concerned with road safety. In addition, I would like to stress that both the questioner and the undersigned as driver and road user also have a separate responsibility to contribute in this context. The evolution we are now seeing is joyous with regard to the number of injuries and fatalities in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e947	Clearly, both the Council of State and the undersigned are responsible as drivers. At the same time, I repeat what the Volvo manager said and that I referred to: ‘The half of all fatal accidents could have been avoided by technology on which the State imposes an additional levy.’ The draft new national transport plan communicates it, i.e.: sub-communicated — a quote from the etates’ proposal that ‘there is a significant road safety potential in implementing measures affecting the development of a safer vehicle fleet’, inter alia. through the design of the charging policy. Not only significant, I would say, but it is vitally important. It's a cross of thought that the Oil Fund has ethical guidelines for its use and location. What ethical standards and guidelines govern the use of taxes by the government on safe cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e959	First on the zero vision: as it is formulated, it is delineated in the national transport plan. The instruments we intend to use to achieve this will also be reflected in the State budget. In fact, according to the information I have from the Ministry of Transport, we have reached the targets we have set in terms of what will point forward towards 2020, where one has the aim of reducing the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic by one third compared to the starting point. And then it's true, as the questioner has it, that the fees are part of this picture. There is also a wide range of other measures. In general, the charges must take account of a wide range of considerations. One is – to take the car charges – wear and tear, etc., which I have already mentioned. However, environmental and safety considerations are also part of the assessments on the design of car charges. In addition, of course, fees shall provide the State budget with revenue for other good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e972	«The oil fund has lent money to Germany at 1,8 p.m. interest rate. The loan finances the development of German motorways. The Municipal Bank, which is 100 pst. State-owned, has financed 21 Norwegian road projects for 22.2 billion. kr. The bank can't borrow the oil fund and pick up 97 pst. of their money abroad at a much higher interest rate than 1,8 pst. In practice, the oil fund lends cheaply to Germany, while the Municipal Bank borrows cheaply from Germany. Will the Council of State allow the Municipal Bank to borrow money from the oil fund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e979	In fact, I could have answered that question quite simply, and the answer is no. But I'm going to go a little bit deeper into the answer. Over time, a broad majority in the United Kingdom has built up a good system to manage its oil revenues. The rule of action, as we call it, and the State pension fund are carriers in this. The rule of action sets a limit, a framework for the development of the government budget deficit, excluding expenditure linked to the oil industry. This deficit is covered by transferring money from the State pension fund abroad to the State budget. For 2012, it's about 120 billion. kr, which is approximately every 10 kroner used over the State budget. The fact that we're doing it this way, makes us have an overall budget that gives the Storting an opportunity to prioritize between different purposes. There are many considerations to be taken into account, and this is reflected in the preparatory work of the State Pension Fund Act. It is said very clearly that the fund should not be an alternative source of funding for purposes that are not otherwise covered by the State budget. This is an important principle. Then there are many other considerations relating to the placement of the pension fund's funds. In line with this, Norway’s Bank does not have the opportunity to invest the funds in the State pension fund abroad in securities issued by Norwegian companies or in Norwegian kroner. I don't see any reason to change that. In addition, the fund is to be managed with a view to maximising the international purchasing power of the capital over time, in the context of moderate risk, as it is called. Therefore, investments are spread widely across several asset classes. It includes government bonds worldwide, including Germany, and papers that are more risky than German sovereign bonds, and as such, isolated, have higher returns. German sovereign bonds finance the business of the German state and are not earmarked for the construction of German motorways, as appears to be evident from the question. The level of interest on German sovereign debt, such as other sovereign debt, will vary over time, and there are several factors which make it impossible to compare the interest rate on German sovereign debt issued in euro with the interest rate on Norwegian corporate bonds. I would also like to remind you that the State is a major investor in the Norwegian bond market through both the State pension fund Norway and the State bond fund. The investments of the Funds are made on market terms, in line with guidelines laid down by the Size Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e996	As the Council of State well knows, the Municipal Bank was established by the Stortinget to provide the municipal sector in Norway with cost-effective funding. It ensures competitive loans so that the entire municipal sector achieves the lowest possible financing costs. It says, among other things: in Meld. St. 13 for 2010–2011 Active ownership: «The sectoral policy function of the bank as a reliable supplier of credit to the local government sector and the best possible loan conditions for the local government is at the heart of its social responsibility.» The form of the loan has been mentioned as lending to many Norwegian road projects, but also port development, sports facilities and cultural investment, etc. Does the Council of State think that there is more pressure in the Norwegian economy if it is borrowed directly by the oil fund or through banks that have again received it from the oil fund via another detour?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1008	It's the total activity of the economy that determines the pressure in the economy, and how much it makes sense and advisable to go into the different areas. Of course, I share the principles of the Municipal Bank to which this is referred. That's how the Municipal Bank knows it's a 100 pst. own central bank, has good deposit terms. So to put it that way, it kind of borrows on the good name and reputation of the state. It ensures that the Municipal Bank can obtain good terms on its deposits, which also allows it to provide good and reasonable conditions for different purposes to which the bank lends.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1015	However, I would urge the Council of State to assess this in more detail and also consider opening up the possibility that all Norwegian private banks can borrow the oil fund, so that there will be no discrimination against Norwegian banks, as – as I see it – indirectly is now, because I assume that Norwegian private banks cannot borrow the oil fund. It would have been nice to clarify it at the same time, because that's part of my point. A bank with a head office outside Norway, e.g. Nordea, which has its head office in Sweden, can borrow money from the oil fund because its head office is abroad, while DNB, which has its head office in Norway, cannot borrow money from the oil fund. Do the Council of State agree that there is discrimination against Norwegian banks? Will the Council of State also open up to further consider this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1022	I refer to my answer, and I have no plans to change the guidelines for the activities of the State pension fund abroad to which a broad majority of the Stortinget have joined and which says that the fund's funds are to be invested abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1031	‘In Prime Minister Stoltenberg’s speech to the National Governing Board meeting of the Workers’ Party on 24 April 2012, he oversaw the financing of loans for road and rail development. Instead of using money to pay interest, the money should be used to build a road. This supports the Progress Party. Despite the words of Stoltenberg, more and more of today’s road projects are financed by loans and with higher interest rates than what Norway lends money to Germany. Does the Prime Minister’s speech mean that the government will now stop fooling itself, and when will the debt financing of road construction end?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1038	State expenditure for road purposes is granted over the State budget in line with the cash principle. Within the limits and framework of the rule of action, the government has prioritised investments in transport in recent years. The current Transport Plan, 2010–2019, foresees a historic increase in the appropriations for road, rail and fairway at sea over the 10-year period up to 2020. It's added up to spend 100 billion. kr more than the design framework of the previous transport plan. It almost doubles the investment in relation to the Norwegian transport plan 2006-2015. In addition to state resources, road projects will also be funded to varying degrees by municipal, county and toll funds. Toll companies finance their contribution to road projects through private market loans. Interest and rebates are refunded with toll revenue from those travelling on the road. The companies make their deposits on market terms. Toll financing is an additional form of funding. Tolls are used where there is a willingness and desire to use such funding locally to provide for the development of the road network. There is a broad consensus in the Storting on the principles of toll financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1047	Thanks for the answer. It is true that the state budget is no longer used on the basis of the rule of action, and because you are afraid to get pressure on the economy. Pressure in the economy occurs first and foremost when the money is spent. This means that when you borrow money abroad and take it into the country, the pressure happens when the money is spent in Norway. That's when there's a danger of getting too many employees and high interest rates. Then you collect money from abroad, even where the oil fund places its money. What is the difference between the money coming from loans in the oil fund and going to Norway and borrowing money from other actors and entering Norway? There is an equal amount of money spent in Norway in both cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1056	This is an interesting discussion. We have had many rounds, and there will be several rounds in the future, in particular on the financing of transport and infrastructure projects. I would like to stress what I said earlier, that it is the total activity of the Norwegian economy that determines the pressure, and that is what we take into account when designing the state budget and the national budget that we present each harvest. It's important to be aware that in that context you don't see any difference in money in principle, but we have to take into account the total activity. Then, of course, there is a discussion of what we should prioritise within the framework of the state budget. The last thing I want to mention is that the state budget is a very central document and management tool to control the device and the use of money in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1061	Thanks for the answer. It was an interesting answer, because what the council now says, is that where the money comes from, doesn't matter, but the total consumption of money. Does this mean that the government will now put an end to deposits with Norway for use in toll projects? Because there's just as much risk of pressure in the economy if this money comes from a different loan agency than the oil fund. In Germany, 1.8 pst is paid. interest on the development of the road network, such as: pick up debt securities for. In Norway, up to 6.5 pst is paid. Is the goal of the government to punish Norwegian drivers as much as possible, when one has the opportunity to borrow funds at a much lower price?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1070	The government has no intention whatsoever of punishing Norwegian drivers. Therefore, we believe that the best thing for Norwegian drivers is to finance most of the transport investments through the state budget, where we do not have to borrow because the state is in such a favourable financial position as the state is. In addition to this, the Stortinget has opened up the possibility of using toll financing by someone who wishes to do so locally. Then, too, toll projects that the community wants to have are also projects that need to be presented to the Storting. So the size takes a position on this, so that, in addition to adopting the state budget, the Storing also adopts other things that affect the activity of the economy. In other words, the Stortinget has a full overview of the activity in the Norwegian economy, and that is basically the main point in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1079	‘The government believes that increasing the use of oil money for road construction will increase pressure in the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, the use of toll financing is increasing, where road projects are borrowed outside the State budget. The municipal bank picks up 97 pst. of their money abroad. The pressure in the Norwegian economy is thus almost unchanged compared to whether the oil fund financed the road projects. Why is it reasonable that roads should be built in Norway where the drivers must in practice pay interest to foreign investors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1086	As I also mentioned in the answer to the question from the representative Svendsen, the pressure in the Norwegian economy depends on the size and composition of the overall demand. The rules of action provide for this to be taken into account when drawing up the budget for each year. I refer to my answer to question seven, which concerns toll financing – a form of financing in addition to money from the state, municipalities and county municipalities. Tolls are used where there is a willingness and wish locally to make use of such funding. I would like to remind you, as I have also said earlier today, that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the principles of toll financing. It is true that toll companies finance their contribution through loans in the private market. Both toll companies and lenders have incentives to ensure the best possible conditions for their deposits. Interest and repayments shall be repaid by toll revenue, irrespective of whether the loan has been raised in Norway or abroad. So interest and repayments on loans are paid just as much to the local savings bank as to non-resident borrowers. Private financing of roads, schools or hospitals involves interest payments to the lenders, whether Norwegian or foreign. I think it's important to remember, when the Progress Party is now going to go further in fine-tuning its new rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1093	I don't get much wiser by this. It is a repetition that there is broad agreement on one and the other, and that the government is wise and adheres to the rule of action. Financial policy is actually about looking ahead and thinking differently. Twelve years ago, we actually didn't have an oil fund. Now we have an oil fund, and then we have to use it as wisely as possible. What the Minister of Finance really says is: the state is running with big profits, the profits are placed in the international market, the state owns the Municipal Bank, the Municipal Bank is financing road projects in Norway, and the Municipal Bank is raising money in the international market. It is, according to the Minister of Finance, a wise policy – that is to sell cheaply and buy cheaply. That's a wise policy – and it's okay to bring it with you. That means the drivers have to throw money out of the car window. They're not just financing the way. The drivers themselves have not taken a decision on these road projects. It's the municipal politicians who do it, and they don't know anything about this – they're adopting a project. But it's more expensive to finance it the way you do it today. Why won't the Minister of Finance do it in the cheapest possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1100	I am well aware of the more fundamental resistance of the Advance Party – at least in Stortinget – in terms of toll financing. There's a little bit of a variable view of it locally, I've noticed. It is also the case that local progress party politicians, where they have seen that it makes sense, have said that toll financing should be an additional funding – in addition to state, municipal and county funds. As I also said in an additional question to the previous one, it is that if a user of the ordinary appropriations of the State budget to finance an important transport project, it is that it is the most ‘cheap’ of the drivers, but then one must have the will and the ability to prioritize it. This government has done so through the considerably increased framework of the road and transport plan we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1107	I record that the Minister of Finance believes that two plus two is five – he does. Then I said, "Better Jensen than Johnsen." It has nothing to do with tolls at all – it's about how to finance the toll projects. It has nothing to do with whether the Progress Party has gone ahead, or whether the Workers' Party has gone ahead – it's about financing the bomb projects in the cheapest way possible when you've actually decided to have a bomb project. We're against tolls, but it's a completely different discussion. We are now discussing whether to finance it as cheap as possible, or whether to accept a higher interest rate by raising money abroad. So you can get it cheaper by financing it through the oil fund, but because of rules and legislation – and the incomprehensible nature of the rule of action and the impeccable ways – the Minister of Finance believes it is wise to finance it as much as possible. Then I say to the Minister of Finance, why is it wise to finance something in the most expensive way possible when you can finance it more reasonably?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1116	The essence of this discussion is that the attitude of the Progress Party – and it is clear from the new proposal for a rule of action promoted by the Party – is that investment, in a way, should be unlimited. There is no rule of action, while there must be an action rule for the rest of the expenditure in the State budget. This is a question of finding different ways to spend money outside the state budget – using money that seems, relatively, cheap today, but that has it in common that they have to be paid back over time. Either you borrow from the bank or someone else, or you borrow for the future – as it seems the Progress Party wants to do – is this money that has to be paid. Interest and instalments must be paid in any case – the bill will come anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1127	‘In the oral Question Time on 11 April 2012, the Minister of Finance of the E6 Colomoe extension boasted. The cost of development was 7.1 billion. kr. 67 pst. of the project the loan is financed at 6,5 pst. interest, more than three times more expensive than that which Germany can borrow from the oil fund. The project shall be paid with tolls. Accruals and interest expenses of SEK 3.4 billion kr is added. The drivers have to pay 8.2 billion. DKK in tolls for a road costing 7,1 billion. to build. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sensible way to finance road development in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1134	I refer to the answer in questions seven and eight, and to the answer to supplementary questions, that funding in the form of tolls is a complement to state, county and municipal funding. Tolls are used where there is a willingness and wish locally to use such funding. As I have also mentioned earlier today, there is a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy on the principles of toll financing. All road projects with toll financing shall be dealt with by Stortinget. It also happened at the extension of E6 from Gardermoen to Colomoen. The Stortinget then decided that the extension should be financed by a split layer between the State and the road users. The traffickers pay their share through tolls. State pension funds abroad shall be managed with a view to achieving the highest return on purchasing power over time, in the context of a moderate risk. I have also said that earlier today. This is why it has spread across different asset classes, with a wide range of countries, sectors and companies. It includes government bonds from all over the world – including from Germany. With regard to the reference to the oral question procedure: to the extent that it was boastful, it was about how fast it is now possible to extend the four-field motorway northwards compared to earlier times – something I am very pleased about, and which shows that this is a government that is putting considerable emphasis on the development of sensible and good transport projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1145	I think the drivers will think it's a nice way to set priorities when they're going to pay two thirds of a project to 7.1 billion. kr, i.e. an expense of approx. 4.7 B.C.E. NOK, and as a reward for it, have to pay NOK 3,4 billion. kr. There is an increase in taxation that the Minister of Finance here boasts, and there is nothing the Progress Party seems to be prioritizing. The point of this round that the Progress Party has now had is that the Prime Minister of the Labour Party's National Governing Board meeting last Tuesday chattered with the fact that OPS projects required the drivers to pay interest in order to build roads because the roads had to be financed. The Minister of Finance has now stood here in the previous three rounds of questions and said that it is perfectly okay for the drivers to finance the loan as long as there are municipal and state bodies behind it, and not private ones. I do not understand the logic that a rich state should oblige its drivers to pay 23.4 pst. of road costs through the interest and operating costs of toll companies. Is it logical in a rich state like Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1152	What I have been responding to today is the system we have for financing road development in Norway that is well established, and there is a long tradition in Stortinget that there is a combination of state funds over the state budget, county municipal funds and municipal funds, as well as toll financing where the drivers themselves want it. I think that is a good system, and it is a system that we should stick to. So on different occasions I have registered that the Progress Party wants to find new money outside the state budget, and that is a lot of what this discussion is about. I am against that, because using funding in a large way outside the state budget that is not subject to decisions in the Storting as toll companies are, leads to the Storting finally losing the overview of developments in the Norwegian economy. It's a policy I don't want to recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1159	Now the Minister of Finance is quite slippery in his way of producing this, because the Progress Party does nothing but what the government is already doing with the financing of Statkraft, Statnett and Avinor, and with regard to money for DNB, Statoil, etc. It's well documented. So I don't think the Council of State should go that way. What this is about is that the government itself is taking money that is not in the state budget, but is pushing forward future toll costs to start projects now, creating pressure in the Norwegian economy now. The point of this round is also to show that 97 pst. of the money going from the Kommunalbank and entering Norwegian road projects comes from abroad. In that case, the argument about pressure in the economy that it was the oil fund instead of funding is indifferent. The money is available; it only applies to investing them. I do not understand why the Prime Minister thinks it is a problem that Norwegian drivers pay interest expenditure on roads built through a OPS project, while there is allegedly not a problem for roads financed through municipal-state cooperation, but which nevertheless have a higher interest rate cost than that of the OPS projects. Can the Minister of Finance explain that logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1170	First of all, I would like to reserve myself against an expression used by the representative Solvik-Olsen, for the Minister of Finance is not a ‘sleip’. I argue for what is my view, in the same way that it is perfectly possible for and absolutely right by the representative Solvik-Olsen to argue for his view. Then I hope that at least we can round off one debate – that there is a difference between state deposits in companies that provide returns over time and that contribute to increased revenue in the state budget through dividends, for example, or in the cases where a seller shares with a gain, which will also provide revenue in the state budget as one can use for good and legitimate purposes. What is at the heart of this discussion is that the Progress Party is opposed to today's rule of action, for which a broad majority in the European Parliament is in favour. They want to find a new rule of action where they are to gain unlimited access to money that they can use at the expense of future generations. I'm against it, but we'll continue that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1179	That wasn't the core of the question. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1184	The President will ask the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, to respect the speaking time and the list of speakers and also to stick to the expression which is parliamentaryly acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1192	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The Capital Region faces major challenges in terms of population growth and political desire to travel as much as possible collectively. When the government talks about public transport, it's essentially about rail investment. We know that the proportion of collective travellers in Oslo and Akershus travelling by train is only 10-20 pst. The need for collective investment is much wider and larger than the need for investment on trains. What are the long-term plans of the Council of State for public transport in Oslo and Akershus?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1201	It is right that the metropolitan area faces major challenges in terms of expected growth in the population. The aim of the government is to tackle the growth of passenger transport with public transport, cycling and walking. In the Climate Communication, we state that collective objectives and bicycle measures should be given increased priority in the allocation of transport concessions. The government will increase investment in the railways, but we will also increase government support for investment and operation of municipal public transport and other environmentally friendly modes of transport. The Government's plans for the development of rail and other public transport will be presented more closely in the National Transport Plan Report 2014-2023, which will be presented in spring 2013. We have given them a clear mandate for their proposals for a national transport plan – to assess how the state can contribute to increasing co-financing in relation to today. We have organized ourselves in the department with a private collective project that will also work on these questions towards the submission of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1210	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Left sees it, it's urgent with a collective effort in and around our capital. The left believes, as I also hear the Minister for Transport say, that the state must contribute much more and more concretely than is the case today, and what has been the case in the seven years of the Red-Greens have been sitting with the government power – and then I am talking about collective action. Urban railways are, as the Council of State certainly knows, very expensive, and this cannot handle Akershus and Oslo alone. The projects here are in line. I just want to mention the Fornebuban, the track to Ahus and a new center tunnel for the T-Bahn. As I said, there is a hurry to get concrete promises. So my question is, what concrete promises about state contributions can the Council of State make?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1221	Let me first of all stress that both the representative Tenden and I are concerned with strengthening collective provision in Oslo and in the Akershus area. Oslo Municipality has done a lot of good. They cooperate well with Akershus, but it is urgent to develop much more. So it's nice that we're now prepping as well as we're doing towards a new NTP. We're also going to have an own meeting to get both Oslo and Akershu's point of view. On 15 May we shall have a meeting with the Eastern Region on the National Transport Plan for the forthcoming period. A lot has happened in a very short time now, but there is enough in national transport plans for the major steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1231	I thank you for your answer. The left has, of course, considered that the State should contribute approximately. 50 pst. by the collective effort. The commuting queues lead to high costs, including for business. An example of this is Norway’s most trafficked road, E18 in the western region. It has an ÅDT of almost 100,000 cars. It's both a local road and a transit route. The commuting queue on this road towards Oslo costs business, according to a Pöyry analysis, between 670 and 1000 million. kr per year. That's going to increase to 2.050 million. NOK 2030 if this route is not repaired. Does the Council of State see the need to do something about this road, both for environmental and promotion reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1240	The answer is yes. I see that there is a need to do a lot. That's also because we've organized ourselves as we have in the department, with a private collective project. That's because we've given the etats the assignments we've done. In connection with the next National Transport Plan, we have invited the regions to meet in turn and in order. We're going to meet with the East Region on 15 May, and then the deadline is formally 29 June. I can make sure that I look forward to both doing what we can now in this sector in 2012 and 2013, and playing with local authorities as best we can, and then coming spring 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1249	‘The Government’s climate notification refers to the transport sector. The aim is to take the growth of passenger transport in large cities by public transport. The government also states that it will strengthen the role of the railway in the transport system, that railway investment should be increased particularly in the major cities and that node strategy is important. But in Bergen, railway development and development are at stake. What will the Council of State do to strengthen rail-based passenger and freight transport in the Bergen and Bergens regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1256	A significant population growth is expected in Norway over the next decades, especially in the largest cities. This growth increases transport needs. The government has the ambition to get a lift for environmentally friendly transport in the future. As alert in Meld. St. 21 for 2011–2012 Norwegian climate policy aims to tackle the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas with public transport, bicycles and corridors. In order to achieve such a development, it is necessary to invest more in both rail and public transport. Arna–Bergen is Europe’s densely populated single-track route. It is simply not possible to insert more trains, even if the demand is there. By expanding to two tracks it will be possible to run trains every quarter per direction against half-hour routes today. This will make the train even more competitive, and more people will be able to choose the train in front of the car. External quality assurance, known as KS2, will be carried out for the Ulriken tunnel project in 2012. The concept evaluation of the transport system in the mountain area, „Kjuagut and stril – smaller car“, is now for quality assurance, KS1. In the KVU, an overall assessment of the transport challenges in the Bergens region has been made. In addition, I have recently given transport modes the task of developing a separate concept selection for the Voss-Arna route, which will look at the need for development in both road and rail structures on the route. The railway works have also proposed that work be started on the KVU for new freight terminals in the mountain area. I have to be allowed to come back closer to the concrete development plans for the railways in the mountain area in the 2013 state budget and in the big news about the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023, the big news that will be presented in spring 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1267	The answer was surprisingly just as expected. I have asked many questions to the Council of State about railway development in Bergen and the Bergens region. This is necessary, because the necessary government governance seems to be lacking. Railway development in Bergen and the Bergens region could produce the impact of both a new NTP, a national transport plan, and the climate communication. But it takes some control. The double-track railway through Ulriken and the local train to Arna is a disappearing small part of the public transport in Bergen, where the main part goes on the road network. Railway works plan to use 600 million. kr to extend the railway terminal in the middle of the Bergen centre, while the station is alleged to be looking for a new terminal location outside the centre, seems unwise and contrary to central objectives. Will the State Council take responsibility for this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1276	The proposal on the freight terminal KVU in the mountain area will be assessed in the NTP context. That's where it belongs. So let me also underline to the representative of Sortevik that in the department we have established a private collective project to develop a national policy for the state work on public transport. It is recognised that public transport is far more than rail, although rail is important. Here, both measures and instruments — those best suited to meet the challenges of public transport — and how to deal with them across management levels between different types of public transport, and between cities and countries — will have Bergen's rightful place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1283	It remains to be seen. It is at least such that the current terminal should be extended to a price tag of 600 million. kr, the risk – based on experience – is obvious that initial investment is postponed indefinitely, at least strongly in time. So the preliminary goal of getting a new terminal in place, after the signals that have arrived, is 2025. The need is a much faster solution than this. The point is that when the Railway Agency is looking for a new terminal, some of the good solutions are close to today’s airport, close to a possible new port location, so that new freight tracks can also become common tracks for passenger transport. But this requires coordination, governance, central to the government and the Ministry of Transport. And again, I am calling for initiatives from the Council of State to take responsibility for railway development in the mountainous region.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1290	The question of a new railway terminal – or hub – in the mountain area has Arne Sortevik and I in several ways previously exchanged opinions on. For our part, we will probably have to follow the formal procedures that are, including that this is a theme to be considered in the NTP context, on which we will get local views. The opinion of the representative, Mr Sortevik, underlines the need for clarification. There is also a need to coordinate our point of view, because I want to give Sortevik the right thing to do, that as long as only one meets with different points of view, it is imperative to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1301	«The Government's proposal to move Norway's veterinary college and the Veterinary Institute from Adamstuen to Ås, with a cost framework of 2.4 billion. kr, received support from the bulk of the population in 2008. The country-by-country processors have revealed that, within this framework, it will not be possible to establish sufficient infrastructure to meet current needs. A prerequisite for such a move must be that the facilities for education and research become better than before. Does the Council of State consider this ambition to be respected in the ongoing process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1308	A completed sketch project for new buildings for the new University of Ås, build for the Veterinary Institute and a new Center for Animal Testing, was in place in November 2011. The construction project is now being submitted to the pre-project, which will be available in October 2012. The development of Campus Ås has always been in close cooperation with the users, and I am impressed by the efforts made by the professional communities in cooperation with Statsbyggen to find good solutions for new buildings. Preliminary estimates indicate a higher cost framework for the project than the investment cost estimates used in St. pp. No 30 for 2007-2008, Future location and organisation of Norway veterinary high school. It was emphasised that the cost estimates were uncertain. The fact that the new estimates are higher than in the past is due, inter alia, to: increased transmission safety requirements and more stringent environmental and energy requirements. In the future, the Government will be committed to ensuring a sound level of costs for this project ensuring that the ambitions of a new ‘green’ university are met. I will come back to Stortinget already in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget with a briefing on preliminary cost estimates for the construction project. To the ground for St. pp. No 30 for 2007-2008, there was an ambition for the new university to be a knowledge-based centre of excellence in education, research and innovation based on production-oriented biosciences. This involves more robust research groups and environments, increased quality in higher education and research, as well as concentration and peaking of research efforts. These ambitions are firm. This shows that the government is concerned not only with meeting today’s needs but also with meeting tomorrow’s needs for education and research, including: veterinary medicine, bio- and environmental sciences.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1323	I hear the Council of State says that you should stay within what you call a sound cost framework. Now I have heard claims that the cost framework has passed 4 billion. kr, i.e. significantly higher than the original cost framework. I would like the Council of State to comment on this. However, I am more concerned when you assume that you should keep tomorrow's standard. As far as I know, Statsbyggen has planned to reduce the area of the Veterinary Institute from today's 9500 m2 to 7300 m2 – i.e. a reduction in the area of the Veterinary Institute by over 20 pst. The professional environments are central to the value creation of all the counties, possibly with the exception of Oslo. Does the Council of State believe that such a reduction is to meet tomorrow's need for this important competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1335	I would like to be allowed to update this in the context of the revised national budget and come back to the Stortinget also in the 2013 budget on the further progress and follow-up of the University of Ås. We have great ambitions for this project, but I do not want to stand in the quiz and comment on some pieces and claims that need to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1340	I welcome that round of revisions and the 2013 budget. I don't experience when, according to Statsbyggen, State Building itself projects with six-man offices for people with professorships, that there are signs of great ambitions or meeting tomorrow's challenges. The councils themselves put in the government's sub-committees when this decision was made, and we knew all the time that this was going to be expensive, much more expensive than still operating in Oslo, and also the technical advice was clear that continued localization in Oslo was the most sensible. Is it that the further process of the Storting also has an opening to reconsider the move that has now been adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1349	No, there is no plan to reconsider the decisions that the Stortinget has made. On the contrary, we have an ambition to get to a very good university at Ås. If the representative Lien needs to discuss office space, we will have ample opportunity to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1358	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: The «Days» storm devastated a great many forest owners. Many places in the country were well-furnished forest that would stand for many years, totally destroyed in a few hours, while elsewhere there was less damage. For many forest owners, this became a disaster, or at least a major challenge, both practical and economic. What has the Council of State done, and what will the Council of State do in the future to help each forest owner obtain the assistance possible within what is reasonable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1367	The hurricane ‘Dagmar’ caused serious damage to the forest in More and Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane. It is estimated that approx. 550 000 m3 of timber is blown down in Nordfjord, in Sogn and on Sunnmøre, of which 300,000 m3 in Sogn and Fjordane and 250,000 m3 in Møre and Romsdal. The hurricane also caused damage to domestic forests. A lot of the timber that has blown down is difficult to access, and there is a need to operate by cableway and infrastructure investments in order to take this out. After an inspection, I have taken measures to facilitate the deforestation of the affected forest areas in the West. These areas need special follow-up due to the extent of storm damage, terrain, accessibility and a fragmented forest sector. The Western countries concerned are facing major challenges, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has therefore asked the State Agriculture Administration to redeploy the year’s allocations of subsidies to help support the forest owners affected by the stormies. A total of 15 million have been redispatched. kr of grant funds from other parts of the country to be distributed among the two most severely affected countries: Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal. In addition, the Western countries have been asked to redeploy their own funds for measures to eliminate storm damage. It has also been suggested that forest owners may use forest funds for pest prevention or forest hygiene measures where there is a risk that windfall could become breeding ground for pests. This scheme is mainly applicable in the inland area where forest owners have forest funds available and where pest insects may be a problem. This is a test scheme that will be evaluated after a short period of time. I have been concerned that we should look at all the tools we have when we consider how we can help the forest owners who are affected. The direct loss of working quality resulting from the damage must continue to be covered by forest owners if the forest is not insured against storm damage. The additional appropriations will not represent an alternative to insurance, but will primarily be an instrument for keeping forestry activity in a difficult situation in areas of the country with special challenges. I want to follow the work of cleaning up the hurricane 'Days' in the future, too, but I trust that private operators in the forest sector, the counties and the municipalities will do what they can to ensure the values of the storm damage, and prevent the storm damage from contributing to increased insect damage in the remaining forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1391	I thank the Council of State for a good answer, and I am pleased with the answer. There was also no need for money in this question, it was just to check how much the council knew about this, and what had been done, and I am satisfied with the answer – so far. Clearly, there may be some consequential harm. What the Council of State said, insect damage, is important, and for example: images, which can destroy a lot of spruce forest. It's a fact that a lot of the forest that fell down is pretty scattered, and there's a bad economy in picking up some trees, and maybe many trees too, because forest roads can be bad, or that it can be so wasted that it's tax and economical to get something out of it. Maybe the Council of State might say a little bit about that situation, because I'm very concerned about what's going on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1398	Firstly, it is important to stress that we have re-disposaled 15 million of existing funds. kr to meet the special challenges in the West – in More and Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane. We hope that it will contribute to a hard work that will take out the forest that has been taken from the storm, and thus secure those values in the future as well. The issue of insect damage and that issue is more topical in the East, or inland, where we have also suffered significant damage. Here, as I said, it is possible to use forest funds to do preventive work. There's a trial plan that we're going to evaluate after a while, but at least an initiative has been taken so that it can be an opportunity. In addition, different paragraphs of the Forest Act allow municipalities to oblige forest owners to take measures to restore forest damage, such as: in the case of insect injury.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1407	As mentioned, there are serious damage both here and there in the country, including domestic and eastern Europe. I think the late injuries may be as great as the damage that already exists. Neighborhood pictures, which we had for a few years ago, destroyed a lot of forest, and I'm a little afraid that it might happen now too if we don't dare and encourage the forest owners to make an effort. I think the forest owners will do that, but it doesn't matter if the authorities are also involved and encouraging, to say it like this. Then there must be no discrimination depending on the municipality in which you live when you ask for assistance, help and advice. Now there's a five-year equation on forest property, but in special situations, an application can be made for a ten-year equation. I hope the Council of State is positive with respect to those who are applying to get a ten-year equation, because it's clear that there's being a lot, much more than the individual forest owner usually does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1414	It is right that the representative Bredvold points out that there is also damage in the interior, and that is why we have opened up forest funds and the use of that system. Otherwise, I fully agree that through the work in the municipalities, in different county municipalities, we have to help encourage forest owners to follow up their responsibilities, which are based on the fact that they also have to work to clean up such damage, in order to ensure that we have reduced or eliminated problems that could result from carnage attacks or insect damage. Here, as I said, there is also an opportunity to impose on them to do so, but I am, like the representative of Bredvold, quite sure that here the forest owners want to work thoroughly and properly with those challenges and will address it. With regard to five years of equation and ten years of equation, I believe that we need to make use of the possibilities contained in the legislation we have, if it can also help us to put in place the measures necessary to reduce the problems and reduce the burden on forest owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1432	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1439	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘In view of Europe’s need for balancing power in the future, Norwegian energy producers have opportunities for further value creation through the provision of adjustable hydropower. An example is the so-called pumping power plant, where you can tap the magazine and sell the power while prices are high, and import power from Europe to pump the water back into the warehouses when prices are low. Will the Council of State facilitate this type of value creation by clarifying the framework conditions for pumped storage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1448	Since Norway has large warehouses with the ability to store energy, there has historically been little focus on pumping power. In the few pumped power plants we have, pumping is ongoing on a seasonal basis, i.e. water is pumped into higher levels of storage in the summer in view of production in the winter. Europe sees Norway as an increasingly important energy partner, not least in terms of the potential for exploiting the interplay between renewable hydropower and wind power and for pumping over shorter periods of time. This type of pumping power must be seen in conjunction with foreign exchange capacity which can provide a different utilisation of resources, increased price stability and increased security of supply. Statnett has decided to build a new link with Denmark. It is under construction and new links with Sweden, Germany and England are now being considered — a total of significant increases in capacity to exchange. New links with other countries shall be established to the extent that they are socio-economically viable, where the contribution to enhancing security of supply will also be an important part of the analysis. There may be significant challenges related to pumping power, not least for natural diversity and ecosystems in and around the warehouses and regulated watercourses. However, the government believes that there is a potential to increase our capacity to relatively low or acceptable environmental costs. This will primarily be the case where the outlet goes to another warehouse or to the sea. However, it is up to the industry to carry out the necessary analysis of the profitability and whether there is something they want to do. Other challenges relate to the need for domestic grid reinforcements, cable costs, impacts on power systems and concessional conditions. It is important to stress that there are currently no obstacles in the framework, in the legislation and in the law so that power companies can apply for concessions to pumped storage plants in the same way as other power plants. It is the industry itself that is responsible for planning and investing in new power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1461	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's probably true that there are no formal obstacles to applying for a concession, but the question is why nobody does it. State councils are probably also aware that Sira-Kvina’s power plant has temporarily left its plans on ice, precisely because of uncertainty about profitability and uncertainty about the framework conditions. So the question again is, how active does the Council of States want to be in the face of Europe's potential for us towards 2020, where they are going to shift their energy supply, and Norway has the opportunity to further enhance its value creation? In such a situation, it is clear that the Council of State will have a choice if he wants to be an active driver to get this to or sit passively behind a desk and wait for any applications to come. So the question is, how active does the Council itself want to be to get to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1466	Let me start by saying that I think the representative Meling was involved in part of the answer as to why there are no more people who are applying for this already today. I think that's profitability considerations. Norwegian energy policy is about maximising security of supply and the best use of resources at the lowest possible cost and at the lowest possible impact on the environment. So it's my job and the state's job to provide good framework conditions, it's the industry's job to make sure that it's the good ones – the profitable ones – the projects that are being presented, and it's my job to make sure that you get the concession and the permission to build. Fortunately, this is happening to a large extent throughout the country – both networks and large-scale production are now being built. I think Norway is in the process of taking a unique position in the new, renewable Europe. It testifies to an active government and an active state council, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1471	I repeat that Sira-Woman, among others. aside this project because of its profitability, but also because of the ambiguity of the framework conditions. One of the uncertainties is about environmental impacts – what will be the requirements for this type of activity? Another framework condition is on the communities and what, I was saying, is going to be the share of local communities in the additional value creation a power plant can represent. Both parts will focus on the profitability assessments of the companies. Once again, the Council of State has a choice, in terms of pro-activeness, in order to take advantage of this opportunity – which is only a few years ahead, mainly until 2020 – to give a clear signal to the EU that we want to be a supplier also in terms of balancing power to the continent, to a greater extent than it is today. This is a limited time window, and therefore there is an urgent need for EU signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1478	It is important to clean up a little with regard to the time window – at least if it is the working time of the green certificates to which the representative Meling is aiming. Pump power plants do not necessarily contribute to an increase in total production, but they contribute to an increase in power and thus provide for the possibility to operate in a swing market. That window will therefore be longer than the window attached to green certificates, which are linked to increased total production. With regard to the framework conditions for the environment and sharing of value creation, we have a well-developed regulatory, legislative and concessional system to take care of all those considerations. Of course not, because you have a pumped power project, you get a different treatment than you want on any other project. I would like to welcome a pumping plant and that type of project. I think they can make an important contribution, but not to rules and framework conditions other than the other power generation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1493	My question goes to the Minister of Defence and says: ‘More than two years ago, the Minister of Defence received a letter from SHAPE confirming that NATO no longer had operational use for the Olav defence facilities, either now or in the foreseeable future. Oil protection should have been finalised in the NATO Investment Committee on 14 February 2012, while SHAPE has asked for a postponement. Since NATO is clearly making new future assessments of Olav Protection, will the Council of State freeze the sale process of Olav Protection until NATO has completed its final clearance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1502	Let me first remind you that the Stortinget decided to lay down the Olaf Protection Base when the current long-term plan was adopted in spring 2008. This happened in line with the Chief of Defense's advice and after consultations with NATO, which informed that the alliance did not need the base, either then or in the foreseeable future. This view was then formalised in the letter from SHAPE to which the representative of Korsberg refers. The government has therefore taken the decision of the Stortingen to close down the Olavsværder. The base was dismantled by the Defence and handed over to the Defence Building in 2009 so that the Defence Building could start the process of preparing for disposal. At the same time, the process of formal deletion of Olavsverm from the SHAPE inventory list was initiated. As I announced on 26 March this year in response to written questions from the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, it was expected that NATO would finalise the deletion of Olavs protection from the NATO inventory list in the spring of 2012. This has now taken place. At the meeting of the NATO Investment Committee on 17 April 2012, Olavsværm was decided to be deleted from the NATO inventory list. The disposal process related to Olavsværm will therefore be continued in line with the current guidelines, and Olavsværm will be offered for sale in the market by Defence Buildings. Norway has a defence that is at the forefront of NATO in its transition to a timely and effective structure. While many allies now cutters, we have been able to strengthen the defence budgets year after year. At the same time, we've been able to get more and more defenses out of each crown. This has been achieved precisely because we have succeeded in making clear choices, where smaller priority facilities and activities have had to give way to increased operational capacity and clear investments in the facilities that we wanted to bring into the future. It's in this context that we need to understand the rationale for the closure of the Olaf Protection Base. I can assure the representative of Korsberg that many of my colleagues envy Norway this ability to make clear and forward-looking choices, despite the most natural pressure to maintain existing infrastructure, which is likely to emerge in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1515	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Olav protection has been a repetition in this hall and so far also in the public space several times. That's understandable, because it was a majority on the Stortinget who wanted Olavsværn closed, and a minority who wanted to maintain the base. There were different assessments and went — both in terms of military preparedness and in terms of economics. From the Storting, the majority decision to drop the Olavs protection, and until the decision that has been taken now, has there been information that has gone from NATO to the Minister of Defence on assessments of the Olavs protection that has not been made known to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1524	It is absolutely right that there has been a lot of attention around Olavs protection, as well as a number of other basic and structural measures in the Defence. The government has had to deal with what has been the majority’s view — the decision to close the Olaf Protection Base — in line with good practice. There is only a formal letter from SHAPE saying that SHAPE believes that there is no need for Olav protection, and that there is no need for the base either in the present or in the future. That's what we've been dealing with. This view has also been reaffirmed in the decision of the Structural Committee now in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1531	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What is important for the Storting is to know if it has been communicated more from NATO to the Council of State than the one letter the Council of State refers to, after the closure. That is why I would like to ask the question again so that we can make it clear. Has it been just the one letter, to which the Council of State refers in its reply, or has there been several requests from NATO regarding the decommissioning of the Olav Protection and the problem around it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1540	Before the initial decision on closure, there was informal contact with NATO which showed that there was an agreement that the Olav protection could be eliminated. We then received this formal letter, to which the representative of Korsberg himself has referred. Then there was a meeting in the committee in February, asking for a little more time. After that it was made known to us that SHAPE had no objections, and therefore this was also deleted. I am not familiar with any other information from NATO, if you believe with NATO this committee or the SHAPE authorities responsible for this. What individuals who have worked in NATO’s structure – where there are about 10,000 people – may have meant, I cannot have a full overview of. I'm dealing with the formal channels in the alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1551	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘The resolution of Olavsværm in Tromsø has been raised several times in Stortinget, even after a decision on this matter was taken. In other words, there has been concern about the facts in this case, and how it has been dealt with. Can the Council of State assure the Storting that the decision was taken on the correct basis and has all relevant information come to the Stortinget in this case so as to avoid any aftermath in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinget?’.» And let me add that this is no threat... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1562	Then the word goes to the Council of State, Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1565	As mentioned in my reply to the representative, Korsberg, Stortinget decided in the spring of 2008 to lay down the Olavsverchern base. There was no permanent operational activity related to Olavsværm, nor was the base intended tasks to support the current or future strength structure of the Maritime Defence. The decision to close down the Olavs protection has been taken. The base was dismantled by the Defence and handed over to the Defence Building in 2009. In the overall assessments carried out in the course of the government’s preparation for the long-term plan at the time, arguments and factors which could argue for the continuation of Olav protection were carefully assessed. As State Secretary at the time, I worked closely with that process, and I can assure the representative that there were many discussions about, among other things. this question. In addition, The defence manager’s 2007 Defence Study drew it on the recommendations of the Defence Policy Selection Board, cf. NOU 2007:15, with representatives from all the political parties on the Stortinget. Furthermore, in the long-term work, the government placed great emphasis on broad inclusion and open debate. Before the government concluded and as part of the development of the long-term proposition, a new and comprehensive review of the cost picture, including an external quality assurance, was carried out. External consultants ensured the quality of the method and economic calculations underlying recommended changes in the base structure of the defence. The main conclusion was that the calculations were satisfactorily managed. The external review showed that the conclusions drawn on the economic impact of each measure were robust and that the calculations were carried out with good consistency. Then I want to add that this kind of question is always a balance between the desire to continue the infrastructure that you have, and have invested a lot of money in, and the future cost of it, measured against other costs. The assessments we make when we go in order to wind up a base are not a statement that that base was not meaningful in its time, but that from now on one believes that one has more rational ways to solve the same challenge, and that then one frees money for what is most important, and that I know that the representative Ellings agrees with me, that the defence must first and foremost provide operational capability. Then you can't sit with a larger base structure than you really need, because it goes directly beyond your operational ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1578	Let me finish what I started instead: this is not a threat to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, but more a humble request to the Council of State. I thank you for the answer and I think that the Council of State initially explains the matter well. But at the same time, it has certainly been a consequence of the closure of the Olavs protection that our submarines, when they are supposed to be loaded, have had to sail, for example. from the Barents Sea and down to Bergen, which takes a week, with charging time there, and up again. Does the Council of State feel that this is unproblematic in relation to the operations and the presence you want? I have understood the council that the submarine weapon is an important factor in disturbing, possibly affecting, the operating pattern of those who may have negative intentions toward us. Don't the council see any concerns through one of these, we'll call it commuting distance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1587	Yes – I believe that we cannot have as a permanent solution that you have to go to Bergen to let the submarines; there is the representative Ellingen and I fully agree. But you don't have to maintain an entire base to charge a submarine, which is basically about connecting a cable to the battery. That's why we now have a job to set up a charging station at Ramsund. The size is already informed about those plans, and we imagine that it will be clear from 2013. Although it was not a question of that, I can also tell you that we see that this has an investment cost of up to 15 million. kr, which was then taken into account in the current plans. Until that happens, it is possible to meet the need for charging through mobile solutions – i.e. until a permanent solution is provided for Ramsund.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1594	I thank you again for the answer. In the extension of this, I see that the Council of State admits that there is a challenge in terms of operationality until the new charging station in Ramsund is put in place, even if mobile solutions are also available. Had it not been strictly reasonable to have an alternative charging station, upstream and functional, before adding Olav protection, in order to avoid three to four weeks of commuting time on the submarines when they are being loaded? I expect that the Council of State, as he himself said, is concerned about getting the most effect out of every penny you put into the defense. And then I don't necessarily see that sailing time from a given point down to Bergen – it's great in Bergen, but nevertheless – is the best way to use the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1603	I would like to stress once again that I fully agree with Mr Ellingsen's representative on the need to have maritime activity in the northern regions, including submarines, which is one of our most important strategic weapon systems. There are then temporary mobile solutions, to the extent that there is a current charging need, and there is a permanent solution to one of the bases that we want to take forward, and on which it is being put, namely Ramsund Orlogsstation. I think this is an example of how we try to connect the defense, so it makes more sense: we have reduced the number of bases and increased the operational capability. I would like to refer to the Chief of Defence's report on the activities in 2011, which demonstrates a significant increase in operational capability, among other things. because you have been able to get rid of infrastructure that was necessary and good for a time, but that you no longer think you need to be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1612	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-05-02.ana.ud195e1625	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
