ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e41	The representative Tord Lien, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on parental leave from 16 April to 15 June from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth from 16 April to 18 April to take part as an observer of the Council of Europe before the elections in Serbia from the Group of the Right on the sick leave of the representative Henning Warloe from 16 April until 17 April until further notice from the representative Dagfinn Højbräten on the leave of 16 and 17 April to take part, as Chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund, in meetings of Oslo On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Hedmark County: Olov GrøttingFor Hordaland County: Torcil Åmland and Eivind Nävdal-BolstadFor Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e99	Olov Groetting, Torkil Åmland, Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad and Kjell Arvid Svendsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e120	In the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in several of the last sessions, we have had thematic discussions, short seminars or our own item on the agenda of recruiting women to armed forces in the Alliance – in addition to other issues related to Security Resolution 1325. Although we are active in these debates – I myself led the lunch seminar on women in Defence during the session we had in Oslo in 2009 – we are quite ashamed to discover that in terms of the proportion of girls who serve or are employed in the Norwegian defence, we are statisticalally in the lower half, both in Europe and in NATO. For my fellow Members from other countries, this is quite incomprehensible. Our image is rife as a country with great participation from women – the high level of female employment is seen as a major cause of our high value creation. The low proportion of women in our defense is also breaking with something else we talk about outwards and practicing indoors, namely gender roles and how we've been working on girls and boys' roles in our society for decades, which has given Norwegian society values, which both we and the outside world appreciate. I remember a general who had a post at one of these seminars we had. He told about how Afghan women had flocked around a female officer from the ISAF forces and almost caught on her. They were fascinated that a woman could go in uniform, that it was possible. There are other examples. Of course, male officers cannot follow women in Afghanistan to work or school — or get information from local women. Women in the NATO force can do that. Kontreadmiral Louise Dedichen, head of the Defence College, has said in one context or another that a higher proportion of women is ‘a means of achieving the objective of delivering better quality in our products. [[??????]] Several women in defence are therefore also an important part of ensuring the necessary and relevant competence for defence. In the last decade, there has been an declared objective of increasing the proportion of women in the Defence Force, both the proportion of those performing the initial service and the proportion of officers and senior officers. Since the 1970s, plans, measures have been put forward and policy objectives have been promoted to increase the number of women in the defence sector. There has been no lack of strategy papers or action plans. Grethe Værnø writes in the book Women's Defence History, Volume II: ‘A red thread in the Action Plans has been the development of strategies to get a reluctant organisation to engage in the promotion of policy objectives and to implement recommended and mandatory measures in a matter which the agency itself saw as peripheral for its real purpose, namely to increase the fighting capacity of the Defence Agency.’ If that's true, the defense itself has been a brake pad for developing a timely organisation that can meet today's safety challenges. However, several structural measures have been implemented, including: compulsory session for both girls and boys. The figures show that, after its introduction, there has been a marked increase in the number of women classified as able soldiers. However, it does not change the total number of women, because when new women arrive, almost the same number end after a short time – not necessarily the same, but many end up. So a lot of girls go out of defense. Perhaps there are quite different measures from the structural — at least in addition to the structural ones — to be taken. Perhaps the culture itself and the internal code need to be changed – or at least passed through. I found an attitude from a sample under the Workers' Party's then women's political regime, from 2003, which was otherwise led by Monica Mattsson, where we can read the following: ‘The defence is in many ways a human bastion that promotes traditional values. As this closed-end system works, young men who are basically both gender-oriented and concerned with softer values will be dubbed into a reality that is somewhat different from the official Norwegian gender equality policy. To put it that way with Kristin Mile and Mona Hansen-Asp: the human role exposed in the Defence is poorly rhymed with the expectations society otherwise sets for modern, equal men.» If this is still right, it's pretty serious. In addition, the selection concluded that it was important to get women’s session duty – and claimed protection for both sexes in the longer term. This was in 2003. In the spring of 2005, I was the head of the Defence Committee in Afghanistan, and like everyone else, I was very impressed by our quota – we have good people in Afghanistan, we've always had it, and they're doing a very good job. But I was most impressed with the very few women in the Norwegian force. Not only were they in a country with extreme female oppression, where women are seen in a special way, they were also in a tiny minority in the Norwegian camp. There we saw that there were pinup pictures, of course, of easily dressed women on the walls – and it's not easy to handle for female officers or branches in a camp where there are very few women. When I noticed that in a defense magazine – it belongs to this story – I got furious responses and e-mails, here there were really some sore toes that were troubled on. But sometimes it's actually necessary to tread on sore toes. The media surveys last year showed us that young girls who go over the threshold and say yes to the first-time service – be honoured to them – are struggling with both culture and machomenne among the lower orders. I will praise the Council of State for what he has done, and for what he has said in this regard. Then I would like to add that the Defence and Defence Policy are not, in fact, alone about the responsibility for the lack of women's recruitment. A good part of the women's movement in the 1970s and onwards were opponents of the Defense and opposed women entering the Defense. This ideology has followed us for some decades. I am therefore very pleased that several political youth organisations today are in favour of female protection. This ideology was really a misconception -- not to say short-circuit. Today's defense is an intervention defence with high competence and relevant competence requirements, a defence where foreign operations are an integral part, where it is absolutely necessary that women have an operational civil protection resource where both women and men are needed in crisis situations as a timely social protector, and this means that we must also have girls with an organisation to reflect the values of society, including the gender and gender role pattern, where girls can dampen an ingrained macho culture – where it is not necessarily necessary to enter the Defence Force to become ‘ordinary men’. As far as I know, there has been a debate in the Defence of Quotation. There I would add that the duty of protection only for men really is radical sex quota. Then I understand that moderate quotaing is practised by recruitments in some areas of the Defense, and that is of course good. Grethe Værnø writes that decisions and measures have been particularly visible under the four female defence ministers we have had since the mid-1990s. Then the question of recruiting more women into the first shift, to the officer's profession and the commanding profession was raised – and this, as she writes, was done in close cooperation with female defence politicians in the Stortinget. But even though we've moved on a few steps, we haven't gotten far enough. Perhaps the current male Council of State could be the Minister of Defense who really does something about the women's share in Defense. It is also my challenge to the Council of State Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e191	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. I will immediately answer the challenge: I want to be at least as engaged in this as my predecessors, as equality is a topic that concerns both sexes as much. Marit Nybakk correctly points out that the defence challenge of ensuring a higher proportion of women is twofold. It's about both recruiting and keeping women. For a long time, there might have been too much focus on just the first, but we've learned that we have to work actively along both axes to succeed better. Two months ago, I replied from this pulpit to an interpellation concerning the competence of the defence. My emphasis was then twofold: the defence has a lot to point to in terms of the competence of the personnel – at the same time, the challenges are in line. The time is ripe for a significantly more holistic approach to the way we attract and manage our skills. My message is equally relevant for women's recruitment. Some are done, but a lot remains. Measures have been taken by changing governments, but we have not reached as far as we wanted. Nevertheless, the defence is worthy of long-term efforts and of a number of measures implemented. Without these, we would have been much worse off. Let me come back to some of these measures. Women account for half of the population — almost half of the labour market competence and more than half of the student population. Nevertheless, I still meet the question, as the interpellant also raised, about why it is so important to ensure a higher proportion of women in the defense. To that I would say, if the defence were to be created today, one would have had the same focus on recruiting women as men, that is, taking them from the country's total population of capable young women and men and not introducing what can rightly be called a radical sex quota, with a clear preference for men, as the duty of protection has been practised so far. This would have been done to ensure the necessary competence for a defence that requires more than anything else in our time overall understanding and, as many have pointed out, simultaneous capacity, which can hardly be an argument that there is a surplus of men in defence. Instead, we have to ask if the defense is able to show women what they can offer. The defense has been largely about men and has traditionally complained that the defense is the place that makes boys men. In isolation, this may not have been wrong. The defence deserves commendation for having given young men generations important experience and competence. The problem is that the message has stopped there, and that the way of thinking and related practices has sat down and in many ways survived a development elsewhere in society that has gone in a completely different direction. This applies in Norway as well as in other countries’ defences. The defence shall be a timely, relevant and competent social protector. In order to provide the right skills, we can develop good practice to some extent; in other areas things need to change. When it comes to succeeding in using the talents of the entire population regardless of gender, some things have to change. I would encourage this room to contribute by ensuring that the right framework conditions are put in place for the necessary changes. Let me mention some numbers. The defense is recruiting around 9 pst today. women in first-time employment and approx. 21 pst. women among apprentices. The share of command training in 2011 was 16,5 pst. Among military employees, it's about 8,5 pst. women. Relatively, more women than men complete the first job, while relatively more women than men leave the job. Research indicates three main reasons why women end. The first reason is about careers, especially the professions police and nurse recruit from the Defense Department. The other is about different personal motives, and the third is – unfortunately – about bullying and harassment. All three reasons must be followed up. Bullying and harassment are the focus of the entire organization. The defence has standardised its handling of issues involving bullying and unwanted sexual attention, incidents being monitored, and Sintef has been involved in the work. I would like to stress that in several fresh cases we have probably also seen a defence management and local management that has in a much clearer way taken away from improper behavior, and that has also made clear what is expected of the crews, not least of the leaders of the Defense. The defense works actively to recruit and keep more women. The compulsory session for both sexes started in 2010. There is a notable increase in the number of women classified as able soldiers, and there is a positive trend in qualified women who want to serve. The challenge is to keep them after initial service or command training. I believe that the sum of the measures taken recently by the Defence will increase the proportion of women. Let me mention some measures: a network of potential female applicants, more gender-adapted selection arenas, admission requirements where job and professional requirements are more focused, more nuanced job requirements, awareness-raising and consistent follow-up of disciplinary matters, gender leadership and diversity, mentoring schemes for women military with leadership potential, own targets, research, active follow-up of women to maintain them, an even better family policy and a promotion of defence that appeals more to both sexes. Both the government and the defence have a responsibility for the systematic follow-up of the measures. Organisational culture is an important success factor. We can use considerable resources on women's recruitment and yet fail if good attitudes and clean behaviour are not in place. This must therefore be addressed. A new session arrangement will only be effective in a few years' time. We are now gaining experience, but we can only start looking for solid results after the summer of 2013. If the scheme does not produce the desired effect, I believe, as I have said earlier, that we must take seriously the debate on the duty of protection for both sexes. My position here is clear, as I have previously said from this pulpit: the norm today is the duty of protection for both sexes. The abnormal thing is to continue as today. But this is a major social reform, and it needs to be thoroughly discussed. I would like to stress right away that the day you introduce a gender-neutral protection obligation, if any, is not to get more soldiers in, but to double the number of people you can choose from through a duty of protection and not just as an offer. Research does not reveal a lack of competence among women. Nevertheless, the notion that women are less suitable in defence than men is that they do not meet the requirements. So let me attend to this. For example, physical requirements for women today are relatively stricter than for men. This is demonstrated by comparing the gender-specific physical requirements of the Defence with statistical data on the average physical mastering level of women and men. So women who are admitted provide among the best – not identical to men, but always the point? The candidates must be physically good enough, not world champions individually, and it is very important to whom they are to be recruited. We do not require this from the men, nor should we demand it from the women. So to the claim that women are admitted regardless of whether they meet the requirements or not. There is no evidence to support this research. I want to praise the Maritime Defense, which implements its own women's recordings and has a good effect on it. Here, the same requirements are set out in the general admission and only qualified women are included, but women compete with women and are shown their potential. Where women must compete with men, some women in the process. It is therefore not about poorer women applicants, but about equal competition and good motivation for delivery. It's like sports, where the general rule is gender-based competition. Despite the professional approach of the Maritime Defense Agency, they are claiming to smuggle women into the kitchen road — why such claims? Some in the defense seem to believe that quotaing means radical quotaing. So there's skepticism and lack of knowledge about quotas. This scepticism is transmitted to women in the organisation – a classic case of setting up a smith’s bakery. As a point of fact, as the interpellant has said, it is the duty of protection today that represents a radical quota — of men. Thus, the duty of protection in its present form reproduces a thought we, including this hall, just criticise, namely that the defence is for men. Research also links the resistance to women in the Defense to prejudices and myths, which we have already pointed out. This is an organization with long traditions for strong human domination. This government's goal of a better gender balance in Defence is firm. However, we know that some framework factors are challenging. The gender-divided Norwegian labour market provides little relief in women’s recruitment. Inpatient studies show that women know the defence worse than men, and are therefore initially less interested. Among other things, girls begin to outsmart their educational and career careers earlier than boys, usually already at the age of 15–16. Therefore, our level of ambition must be realistic and our efforts focused – at the same time. We have to break some circles and meet the girls and the young women sooner than before. I am prepared to continue to be offensive in the defense's women's campaign. Many agree with us. At the same time, someone criticises us for an artificial focus on women. The problem is that in an organisation where the normal is almost exclusively male employees, any focus on women will be perceived as abnormal. If we fold away, we'll change nothing. A high proportion of women must gradually become normal in the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e231	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very happy that the better gender balance in the defense is the government's declared goal, and hope that we will achieve this within not too long. I also share the views of the Council of State, that getting people with good skills into the defence in many ways is another side of the matter of getting more women into – using the best of both sexes and taking in the best from among others. the session. It's important that the best competence comes into the defense. In terms of terms, it's also what this is all about. I want to refer to what I said in my first post. Grethe Værnø writes in his book on Women in Defense: ‘A striking feature of the planes is that it seems that you started at the zero point every time.’ Now I hope that's not what's going on, but that you're going on and on with the measures you've taken, and with the plans you have, to break this pattern. I hope that the Council of State agrees that we can conclude with the following three main objectives: One is that more women need to be recruited to the Defense Department, both for initial service and as a command. The second is that we have to get the women to be in the organization – I am very happy that the Council of State underlined – and, thirdly, there have to be more women in leadership positions in Defense. The last of these three objectives is where you might have gone the farthest. There has been a good deal since Elisabeth Sveri became the first female colonel lieutenant, in 1982, or since Line Swing became the first female helicopter pilot, in 1990. This has not been very long since, but something has happened from the time of the appointment of Lieutenant Colonel Ingrid Girde to the Guard Chief in 2006, or to the appointment of the same, now Colonel Ingrid Girde, to the quota manager in Afghanistan in the second half of 2011. There are also several others, including: the Inspector-General of the Home Office. Also at the leadership level, we have seen a shift from the Defense to other industries. Among other things, I mention: The PR industry – there are others who go there, but also from the Defence – and the organisational life. When it's said that the defense is the best-kept secret in society that has a lot to offer young women and men, I think my challenge is: how are we going to get a strategy and a system so that this doesn't become a secret? It is about recruiting both women and men, but it is especially about recruiting women.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e260	I would like to thank the representative Nybakk for his good input. Let me link a couple of reflections to what was now said. One is that I think it's important for me to stress that diversity has a self-value. We're not concerned with diversity just because it's e.g. is politically correct or for other reasons. It's a good idea to have an organization with what we call cognitive breadth. When people have several different types of experience in making important decisions, decisions often become better than if those taking them are copies of each other. This must be achieved in many ways, but increased female participation will definitely contribute to it. I think the defense here can look to society for the benefit of the rest. There's no doubt that the Norwegian economy is doing so well, and that we've become a successful society in general, also has to do with the fact that we're far ahead of gender equality. There are more and more people far from our borders who now notice this as an independent factor in why Norway and other Nordic countries are doing this particularly well. In that case, this must also apply to the Defence, in my view. Diversity has a self-esteem, and it's about understanding what diversity is. The second point that Nybakk's representative raised was not to start at zero again. I fully agree with that. It was also the purpose of mentioning some of the measures in progress. I'll build on everything that works, and then add what is needed. It's been a long time since you fought down the formal barriers. There are no professions in Defence that women cannot have. We have female fighter planes. We have female fighters. The world's first female submarine captain was Norwegian, etc. So we've broken many barriers, as seen. But now it's about working with the organizational culture, so that the ones we recruit become. Thematics ‘well-kept secret’. I think one of the obvious benefits of the gender-neutral session system is that young women, in the past – to apply for the Defense, to which they had the full right – had to find out what the Defense was, where they were, who you contact, and what you do. At that time, people who had friends and friends, family or any other kind of connection, would like to make it easier. By imposing an exposure to the session scheme, young women must make an active choice, they must say yes or no. Unlike men, they have the right to say no, but they have to answer anyway, and I think that's a step on the way. I would like to stress very strongly what the representative Nybakk just said about the leaders. It is important that solid and capable women are brought into leadership, also because it is important to have good role models, and I fully agree with those that are and have been good role models, and that more will come. But it's important that this is gradually reflected throughout the organization, so that we don't just have admirals and private soldiers, but that we have the entire width.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e279	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this challenge we have in common in society. It's important that we keep the pressure on it, to the highest degree. If we look at it a little bit historically, it has been a political goal since the late 1980s to increase the proportion of women in defence. As early as 1976, the majority gave women access to command training and, in 1983, the same access as men to the duty of protection. In 1984, the Stortinget adopted full occupational equality between men and women in the Defence. So the law has been in place for a long time. But the measures have not provided the results we had expected and that were desirable. If we look a little around us, we see that experience from other parts of the world of work during this period shows that in those professions that have been heavily dominated by people in the past, the proportion of women has increased considerably in the last 20–30 years. I think, for example, The police now have a share of women at approx. 30 pst. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence today underlines and prioritises this as strongly as he has now shown in his statement, and also refers to the measures that are now being worked on continuously. The mandatory session for women was introduced in 2010, as mentioned earlier in the debate, and the figures show a marked increase in women qualified as able soldiers. There is a positive trend in qualified women who want to provide initial services. The challenge is to get them on with initial/failure training. I think it is high time to also consider imposing protection obligations equally for both men and women, and 2012 should become a brand year for us to take this challenge seriously and make the premises. I will also refer to the Basic Law § 109: «Every citizen of the State is generally equally obliged, for a certain period of time, to protect his country of origin, without regard to birth or wealth.» This means that selection criteria based on gender or social/economic position do not qualify for the obligation. The duty is to make themselves available, not necessarily to earn. The obligation applies until the age of 44. This implies that the obligation to protect – in the same way as the right to vote – is universal and that gender is not a relevant selection criterion. This is supported by the Gender Equality Act, which prohibits gender discrimination. Punctuality shall be primarily determined for service or not. The obligation of protection is such a law for the protection of society, not the defence's recruitment needs or the individual's career ambitions. The characteristic of an equal society is that both men and women are represented at all levels and at all levels of work. Here's a principle view The defense should not be an exception from. The low proportion of women is therefore not in the pact with the Defence Society. This in turn implies that the defence does not make sufficient use of the competence and resources that women can provide to the organisation. I therefore agree with the government's aim to increase the proportion of women among both guardians, officers and workers. But I think now the time soon is ripe to take a step further and impose protective obligations on both sexes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e301	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important question here today. The question of women in defence goes a long way back – it was probably already in 1949 that a defence commission concluded that women’s labour was necessary in defence, but this was rejected by Stortinget at the time. Since then, the question has been raised several times and in various forms, and in St.meld. No So for 2006–2007, a target of 20 pst is set. women in the Defence by 2020. As the interpellant emphasizes, the proportion of girls in the first shift today is 10.6 p.m. and the female command of 8.2 pst. The challenge is that many women get picked up and come in, but then they choose to quit. First of all, let me stress that for the Progress Party, it is the effectiveness and quality of defence that is the primary focus. Then it is important to strive that it is the most qualified persons who carry out the tasks in the defence. It is therefore not essential whether these are men or women, but that those who are hired, selected or appointed are able to carry out the task they are given in the best possible way. No one should be assigned a task or function because you're a man, or because you're a woman, but because you're the best fit for the task. For the most qualified — whether male or female — it is important to ensure that these are given the opportunity to pursue and, if possible, to pursue a career in Defence, if possible. It also implies ensuring that capable women also have in practice the same opportunities as men in the field of defence careers. The introduction of the obligation to sit women in the Defence Service is a proper direction to ensure that all women are informed of the opportunities offered by the Defence Service in terms of its initial service and beyond. In general, it is important to increase the status of guardians irrespective of sex. This will also strengthen the motivation of women. If the initial service is interesting and relevant, it would in itself be motivating. Both men and women must feel that the defence facilitates a lifelong career. It is important for those who choose the way ahead in the Defence as their command that the service be set up so that it can also work together with family life. In particular, it may be important to focus on providing families with adequate tranquility and predictability during their service. In Norwegian Military Journal No. 5/6> – 2010 Researcher Frank Brundtland Places at the Swedish Defence Research Institute, FFI, points to three reasons why women leave the Defence. I guess that's this council referenced here instead. The first is that many women under the age of 30 in operational service look at the time in Defense more like a stepping stone into careers other than a lifelong run in Defense. There are especially police and nurses many of these go over to. The second group chooses to quit because of other job offers, education or family reasons. These thrive so far in the Defense and end not out of dissatisfaction but after a careful thoughtful assessment and an individual choice. Then we have the third group that ends because they don't feel welcome in Defense. They experience, as has been said here before, poor culture, backsliding, debauchery, and they tend to be subjected to involuntary sexual attention. These are unacceptable attitudes, an unacceptable culture and probably reflect a strong human culture in Defence. Any military organization will probably have some publicity in culture and a certain pressure – it's in its nature – but the problem and the unacceptable is of course when this is addressed especially to women because they are women. This may also have been the case for defending a job in terms of attitudes and culture in terms of women in defence. I will conclude by saying that, although there is one piece left for the goal, there are also many positive developments that have been highlighted in the debate earlier today. Today we have women in more and more important positions in Defence, and that is positive. Women are a resource for the Defence, and it is necessary to enable those who are qualified and want a career to be able to do so in line with men.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e322	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important issue. As an additional point: I have followed the list of speakers here today and saw that it is exactly fifty-fifty women and men who are speakers. That is a point precisely because questions about women and gender equality are very often debated by women. This is precisely why it is so important that men also engage in the debate. Women in Defense were admitted to regular command training in the 1970s, but were not formally integrated in the same line with men with access to all types of jobs before the mid-1980s. However, there has been no lack of political attention, and there has been no lack of action plans or documents in recent years. In 2007, the Bredstrup Committee issued a 90-page report, and we received a separate survey report on increased female participation, St.meld. No 36 for 2006-2007. It received broad political support. In addition, both the current long-term plan, St.prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, and the future long-term plan, Prop. 73 S for 2011–2012, mention of the theme. The starting point when the Bredstrup Committee started its work was 7 pst. women among officers and trainees. The committee set a target of 15 pst. already before the end of 2008. We have many role models in both defence and otherwise in society that are important for women to look up to. Pioneers have been mentioned here both at sea and in the air. I might mention here in particular now the deceased Siri Skare as an important pioneer in the Air Force. But we've also had female quota managers out there, like Hilde Solheim in Chad, and we've had Ingrid Girde in Afghanistan, but the first one in Afghanistan, Anne Cleaning, back in 2011. It's important. As the interpellant picks up, you're still pretty far from reaching the goal. But in its setting for St. meld. No 36 for 2006-2007, a Joint Defence Committee wrote the following: ‘The Committee is of the opinion that when the measures taken in the past have not had the desired effect, it is necessary to ask whether an increase in the proportion of women in defence is based on a real wish in the organisation and whether the measures taken have been followed up and have received the necessary management support. The Committee would therefore point out that if the objective of increasing the proportion of women in defence is to be achieved, the need for more women must be anchored, pursued and communicated at all levels of the Defence Organisation.» I think we still have a real problem here. At the same time, it is important to stress that there are no simple solutions – there are many considerations that need to be weighed against each other. Firstly, I think it is important to disconnect this debate from the debate on quotaing as an instrument. Neither do the women in the defense. I'm talking to a lot of them. They're very busy getting employed and employed on the same line with men. A lot of women in Defense are very well off – and I am happy to hear that. Then we have to balance consciousness. There is a danger that if you expose yourself to the problem of being a woman in the defense, there is no direct recruitment magnet. We have to focus on the stories of what's going well with women in Defense. So I think we have to be aware that seas if you need a diversity, and that is what you do most in Defense, you also have to not hide the real issues associated with relationships like different physical characteristics, physical admission requirements, etc. In fact, there is still a need to be able to carry heavy and go far in some defence positions. The very many women are concerned about, is that they should be able to save their partner, take him over his shoulder in a conflict situation where necessary. So you don't want to make demands that are weaker than men, but it's supposed to be a diversity in defense. Political attention is also important, but political decisions cannot be made on behalf of women to seek a career in defence. It must come of a personal desire and a belief that that is what they want. It is about both substantive changes and communication in particular about the place of defence in society, and how defence is perceived in the population, including women. Here I would challenge the Minister of Defence at one point: it is important that the defence as a supporting community institution also has a natural place in the school, precisely because many girls choose early. Finally, with regard to the issue of gender-neutral protection, I have seen and noted with interest that the government has clear, primal arguments that a modern and relevant duty of protection should also apply to women. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence has so clearly stated that equality applies to both sexes. It is a central debate that will also come in the years to come. The obligation of protection is a central element of the social contract between citizens and the state, and it is also required to adapt it to developments in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e349	I think it is a very important interpellation that has been raised, and there have been good contributions from both the Council of State, the interpellant and other representatives who have participated. Defence depends on legitimacy and a good anchoring in society. In this context, recruitment and the composition of the defence become important. I think it's important that we have a defense that is capable of recruiting from different parts of society, and that the employees of the Defense also to some extent reflect the society of which they are part. The discussion about women in defence is not about equality for me in isolation, but it is about how we should have the best defence possible. Then it's important that the defense has access to the best people, and then you have to recruit from both sexes with the same clarity. In addition, there is a need for us to have in the future a defence that has a good anchoring and not least a people's uproar. Then we have to take seriously that a defense with such a strong tradition of strong human domination will not be in line with the society we want today, and not least that view of society that we pass on to the next generation. I'm very concerned about the duty of protection as an institution. It's very positive that many in society end up about it today. But I think that if we don't take action to ensure that the protection obligation in practice applies to both sexes, this could change in the future. We both as politicians and defence must take this seriously. We've already taken some action by imposing session obligations on women. This means that we reach the entire youth school with information about the defence, and it will hopefully help increase the female proportion. The defence has become better placed on the market as attractive and highly topical for both sexes. The challenge will then be to keep women after completion of initial or command training. Attitude-building, mentoring, research and better follow-up of women and perhaps also a better family policy are some of the measures that can help to keep women more fully in the defence after the end of their initial service. The signals that have now come from the Minister of Defence are important in this context; to be clear that the type of negative events that have been promoted in the media is not accepted, while sending strong signals about the need for more women in the defence. Finally, it is about attitudes in the population. Still, many people face prejudice when, as a woman, you say you want a career in Defense. Our educational choices are characterised by attitudes from parents, friends and society, and issues where some in the Defense itself help to confirm all the prejudices that exist against the Defense can influence the choices that girls take. My own party has not been in favour of a gender-neutral duty of protection, but I think it will be the most important and obvious step we can take to make visible to the world that women have equal rights and obligations to defend the country. The goal must be to have the best women and men to defend us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e366	For decades, it has been a political goal to have more women in the Norwegian defence, both in the initial service and as a command. This is a goal supported by the Christian People's Party. I am pleased that there is also a broad political uproar on this. We value the fact that the interpellant, Marit Nybakk, addresses the matter and the commitment shown by the Minister of Defence in his reply. There are several reasons why increased women's share of defence is good. First of all, it goes on the broad and popular anchoring of the defence. Recruiting both women and men to the defence of the country will strengthen the legitimacy of the duty of protection. It will also strengthen the links between women and defence. It also goes to equivalency and equality. Defence is an important part of society. Women make up a large part of this society, but not least: More women in Defense can help make our defenses better. The defence needs competence, and more women can strengthen the scope of competence. It is obvious that it is a strength to be able to recruit soldiers from all over the population. We see that not least in international operations. Contact and trust building are important tasks. In countries like Afghanistan, we have learned that women’s staff can have other — and better — opportunities for communication and to gain trust with women in the country. In conflicts, women and children are often victims, which have to be taken into account. But women in conflict-filled countries are far more than victims; they are also important resources to build on when creating trust and peace. The work of recruiting women for service in all the defenses we've been doing for a long time. The introduction of the mandatory session of women has been a means of moving forward in this work. But after decades we have to note that the proportion of women is barely increasing, despite the fact that several governments have focused on this. Defence is still a job mainly for men, in fact it is about 90 pst. men. It's a long way to go until the target of 25 pst. women. It is not for women to change to increase the proportion of women. It's the workplace, the defense, that needs to change. One brake for recruitment is that too many of the defense women are subjected to bullying, harassment and, yes, even worse, sexual assault. It helps to end capable women because they don't have the culture. To move on, we need changes in the human-dominated culture of defence, yes, in short, changes in the attitudes of men. But the causality is more complex than that. The ongoing centralisation of defence can also contribute to making a career in Defence less attractive to many, not least to women. Family policy must be important for defence. Among both women and men, many people hesitate to move or commute over long distances because of the family. The requirement that defence personnel are increasingly required to serve in foreign operations, such as Afghanistan, may also create recruitment problems and contribute to non-response. We're facing some structural conditions that we can't ignore. We must therefore recognise that the work to increase women's participation in defence is a long-term task. Still, there are points of light. The defense has many women to be proud of. The chairperson of the Committee mentioned some of them. Let me mention three. First, I would like to mention Colonel Siri Skare, an excellent officer, who unfortunately was killed in the tragic event when demonstrators attacked the United Nations office in Mazar-e-Sharif on 1 April last year. Then I will mention Major General Kristin Lund. She is the first woman in Norway to be appointed officer at general level in the Army. Kontreadmiral Louise Kathrine Dedichen is the first woman in Norway to be appointed officer on admiral level. She now has a great responsibility as head of the Defence College. They are first-time women and role models for other women of defence interest. That is why I believe that we can move forward in this work. The measures pointed out by the Minister of Defence in his statement should be widely agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e396	Let me first thank you for a very nice debate and for the fact that it is both cross-political and genuine interest in and willingness to strengthen women's share in defence. I have also noticed, as committee chairman Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, that there were about as many men as women in the debate, and that is important. I would also like to join in something else that the representative Eriksen Soreide said, namely that it is important that the defense has a natural place in the schoolwork. It can make the defense visible as an important and interesting workplace and make it not remain the best-kept secret in society, as the Council of State spoke about. It is important that we stress that the recruitment of women is also about increasing competence. I have basically had the impression – all the speakers have talked about it, including the representative of Åland – that we want to get the best. It is important in order to achieve a timely and qualitatively good defence and a good defence of intervention. Mangfold has a self-esteem, said the Council of State. Of course, it's also about getting a better balance between women and men in defense. It is also important to get more women to contribute to gender equality in a defence that requires a holistic understanding. Many have spoken about the structural measures. I want to join all those who have backed up on what was said about the culture of defence – about the attitudes of men and that we need to grasp what is just about culture. In the end, we can't get away from a discussion about protective obligations for both girls and boys. I'll join everyone who's taken up just that. Several have said that the duty of protection today acts as a radical sex quota for boys in the Defense. When we know that the first-time service is crucial – almost fundamental – for recruiting for further service in the Defence, yes, we must get the best girls already at this level, i.e. in the first-time service. We have to have them on session, take them off session, we have to have them on that level. Then we have to take the debate on duty of protection for all, because that just means that we take the best of every gender of those who come to the session, according to the needs of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e412	I would also like to thank you for a very good debate with a great cross-political consensus and another confirmation that equality is a topic for both sexes, which was reflected in the list of speakers. I'm very happy about that. I would like to stress something in and of course almost everyone who has spoken has mentioned, not least Eriksen Soreide, Nordtun and Ramsøy, that this is a topic of the social contract. I strongly believe in the duty of protection as an institution. I think the duty of protection is much more than anything we agree with because it's practical. There's also something we have because it says something about the relationship between the inhabitants of the state of Norway and the most powerful means of power we have. I believe that that in itself is an argument that you have to take the big discussion about women in Defence and the duty of protection for both sexes. If we let it go too long as today, the question will be asked whether it is really a duty to protect in Norway when only one gender has been identified as the recipient of it. And as Nordtun rightly reminded us: the Constitution has not specified that the duty of protection applies only to men, so strictly speaking we are against the Constitution in terms of practice, but it has probably been clarified earlier. That debate is coming. When we chose not to propose to the Storting that both sexes should be protected in this long-term plan, it is simply because we believe that this is such a big scheme, such a big reform in Norwegian society, that it must be thoroughly investigated and justified. Not least, we want more experience from the measures that have already been mentioned. It's known where I stand. I mean this is a discussion we definitely have to take. Then I would like to say that more people were involved, among other things. Eriksen Soreide, about quota. I think some people are skeptical about specific measures to recruit women. I have not heard anyone here or in recent times who has been against letting women go, the question is whether you should have specific measures. I think many think that those who are in favour of it mean radical sex quotaing. That's not necessarily that. Our point is that today's system involves a strong bias for the benefit of men. Men recruit. Role models are typical men. There are a number of features in the system that make it actually easier to enter and make a career as a man than as a woman. What you want is to compensate for that bias, so that it becomes as equal as possible and we can achieve what Åmland and several others mentioned, namely that it is the most suitable to get the most important jobs. Finally, I would like to stress that we need a diversity. Mangfold is good, cognitive width is good, it's important to make Defense known. I agree with what has happened to the school, and I also want to say that a system has now been set up so that you can apply directly both for the continuous war school from high school and also for engineering schools. It's an ever closer collaboration, and we're going to continue, because here we have a clear and clear goal that I have today confirmed that a lot of parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e425	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e439	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines — up to three lines with replies from the member of the Government — within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e448	The processing of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Communications to the Stortinget provide useful information on supervisory activities in an important social area. If we give a heading on the attitude of the Municipal Committee, a Joint Committee believes that the Data Protection Authority is doing a good job on an important section of the Privacy Policy. It's our impression that they're doing a lot for a relatively limited cost. This is something more than an impression, it is supported by diffi's report No. 8 for 2011. Here's what it says: ‘Data supervision achieves good results with limited resources.’ [[??????]] The exercise of authority is commendable, and the assessment is that the Data Protection Authority in general has a good sense of role. This year, the Communication has highlighted specific issues and themes — first, the possibility of using privacy-promoting technologies. It is not that technology only works against privacy, but technology can also be used in the service of privacy, given that it is early in the process and can influence the choice of solutions. Secondly, the specific problems associated with health registers have been raised, where legitimate interests speak too easily for access to much, but where privacy concerns go in the opposite direction. The third area is working life and privacy, where there is still some unresolved conflict material, in particular related to control possibilities at work and the transparency of e-mails by employees. The fourth area, which may be important for the paediatric population, is social media and the possibility to delete information and not least exposures that are no longer required to be on the Internet. Delete issues are also linked to the fact that it is very often easier for Internet providers and other data providers to store than to deal with the problem of deletion. Then we're in the situation that technology goes on. There is information that is no longer easily downloaded on the individual’s PC and where the leakage risk is smaller. It is information uploaded by individuals on external websites and handled by external servers, perhaps abroad as well. In this respect, I also think the Council of State should be interested in the problem of cross-border network traffic that can now, under the Swedish FRA Act, be explored in Sweden, after they have been pressurised, the scope for surveying for Swedish citizens, or for network traffic internally in Sweden. A fifth and important area, which is becoming more and more topical, is personal data as a commodity, where it is still important to maintain that it is the individual who has the first right to information about himself, and as such, is the rightholder of the commercial exploitation of information, if you want to give it up. The principle of informed consent must continue to apply. An example of breaches of these premises has been the desire of commercial actors to collect student administrative information from universities and universities. They could do that because they relied on the Public Health Act, and they also received support from the Ministry, which made a preliminary assessment. We have seen to our delight that we will take a new round and get the Ministry of Justice's view on this. If, however, this would lead to the disclosure of this student administrative information to third parties and outsiders, I expect the Stortinget to come back and be aware of its responsibility as a legislative assembly, which can make the right borderway between the principles of the disclosure law on the one hand and the data protection law on the other. When I am involved in legislative changes, I would also like to comment on the Left's proposals, which have been promoted in the Chamber because the party is not represented in the Municipal Committee. So it goes into some of the issues I've been dealing with. I can only say that the Right is sympathetic to the issues, but we will not immediately vote for this today, because we think these are issues that belong to a broader context and deserve a more thorough review. I can just say it happens a little bit on the legislative side. I have been to a constitutional seminar earlier today, where we have discussed the possibility of legislating the right to privacy. Finally, I would also like to say that this is the first time that we are dealing with the annual reports following the adoption of the Data Storage Directive by Stortinget, and it must be noted that, according to Stortingen's assumption that it will come into force on 1 April, later on 1 July, it has been sent a letter that it has been postponed indefinitely. I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e477	The rapporteur has given a good account of the Committee's proceedings on the matter. The working party may in all respects be associated with the assessments it makes. The debate we have had in recent years on privacy in Norway has heightened awareness of the importance of privacy and how this is challenged by changing technology. A similar debate is going on in our neighbouring country. In both the EU and Norway, efforts are now being made to strengthen legislation in the field of privacy. The Ministry of Justice is reviewing the Data Protection Act for an audit. The OECD and the Council of Europe are updating their guidelines and the EU is working on an update of the Data Protection Directive. The European Commission presented proposals for new data protection legislation in January. As an EEA country, the new legislation will subsequently also apply to Norway. The proposals currently under discussion in the EU include, inter alia: clarifying the ownership of individual citizens of their own personal data on the Internet and the right to erasure. The proposal that the Left is promoting today goes along the same lines, but is detached from the whole. We agree with the rapporteur's assessment of the proposal. That being said, the Labour Party is positive that we are getting up-to-date legislation, adapted to the time we live in, and adapted to the rules that apply in the countries around us. We believe it is right that Stortinget waits for a comprehensive bill. It is positive that the Data Protection Authority has taken an active role in the work of the new EU legislation and is actively participating in several international exchange of experience venues. It is important that the Data Protection Authority is up-to-date on technological developments and international thinking in the field of privacy. Children and young people are a particularly vulnerable group. Children’s pictures and information are easily disseminated on the Internet, and unfortunately adults do not always put children’s needs and interests first. The annual report points to the increasing use of social media as a challenge to privacy. Often it is the individual user himself, or someone close to him, who is responsible for the privacy violations on Facebook, Twitter or similar media. The project deleteme.no was completed last year. The working party believes that the experience has been good and is pleased that the service continues after the project period. At the same time, it is important to stress that the state will never be able to take full responsibility for the privacy of individuals. Children and young people must learn to take responsibility for themselves, as must adults. While privacy in the past was primarily about big brother, it is now talking about little brother seeing you. I believe that Stortinget needs to discuss privacy violations on the Internet in a wider way, and today put in an interview about this. The 2009 Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority pointed to a new problem: parents — typically in child protection or child distribution cases — publish sensitive information about their own children. On 22 March, on a proposal from the government, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the Personal Information Act, including: Section 11 new third paragraph, which states: ‘Personal data relating to children shall not be processed in a way that is irresponsible for the best interests of the child.’;» It is apparent from the pre-processor that the provision includes, inter alia: could include the publication of personal data of own children. Privacy is a fundamental right. The right to privacy is important for individuals, but also an important foundation for a free and open society. Technology can also be liberating, as we have seen in the Middle East, and an open society is based on free exchange of knowledge and information. New technology simultaneously opens up abuse and monitoring. In this, the dilemma lies: in practical policy, we must balance considerations and ensure that legislation keeps pace with developments. There is broad agreement on the value of the work of the Data Protection Authority. Since 2005, the government has increased the supervisory budget by more than 10 million. kr, i.e. Almost 50 pst. It is an expression that privacy is important, and that we need the supervision as a clear and unfair defender of privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e506	I feel no great need to say as much as the representatives Tetzschner and Haugli have done well, because there is a great deal of agreement in the Committee on these matters. Every year, when we deal with the annual reports, we have pointed out that personal data is under a strong pressure. However, I would like to mention in particular what the Committee has said about health information. The Committee would like to emphasise the value of the defence of health information. The general rule is that the use of health information for purposes other than the right of treatment should be based on informed consent. It is a central principle of privacy and shall ensure a genuine ability for individuals to decide on the use of their own personal data. Even if consent is the main rule, it is unfortunately alarming to record that more and more health records are created without the data subjects participating in it. And then I'll also take the opportunity to refer to Inn. 275 L for 2010–2011 on the Data Storage Directive. I'm not going to go into it any more, because there was a thorough debate on this when that matter was up in the Storting. I would also like to point out that in its 2012 alternative budget, the Progress Party has increased the fees to the Data Protection Authority by 5 million. kr. We did that because we thought it was very important that the Data Protection Authority had jobs that enabled them to work effectively and to take what was necessary to ensure that personal data is kept. Otherwise, the Progress Party will support the proposal from the Left. We thought it was a good thing that there was a proposal to ask the government to draw up proposals for changes in laws that ensure that individuals are given ownership of their own data and personal data. I do not see any danger in supporting this proposal, because one has the full possibility, when it comes to the Storting, of dealing with any proposals that might have to be made, and then of deciding whether any of the proposals will be supported or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e519	Privacy is a fundamental right for all people. The privacy challenges are cross-sectoral. That's why it's important themes to discuss in this room. The balance between privacy and societal considerations is demanding. Privacy is under pressure, and ever-new technologies allow for more surveillance. We politicians have a clear responsibility to set limits on technology. Technological opportunities are gathering ever-increasing amounts of information. It gives us challenges in several sectors – in everything from the health sector, the labour market and the social media. In the health sector, technological opportunities can facilitate cooperation and improve the flow of information for the benefit of the patient. Health records are also used for important medical research and for the implementation of preventive public health measures. At the same time, there is a very high requirement for safety, since the information collected is particularly sensitive and does not need to be unsolicited. Social protection challenges have increased in recent years. New technology makes it so cheap to monitor employees that it's no longer a cost question. It is agreed that everyone is entitled to a certain degree of privacy – including at work. Uncritical monitoring of employees will result in the employee's privacy being damaged. Now, many monitoring measures are positive for the employee, not least for safety reasons. But unfortunately, the principle of participation – i.e. employees are required to assess the need and design of control measures – not constantly followed up by the employer. The employee also has the right of access to information relating to him. The consulting service was created to guide and help those who feel hurt online. I am pleased that this service is now continuing. It is obvious that there is a need for both better information and guidance on what it is allowed to publish online, and the need for help to get rid of both illegally published material and things that you yourself have spent in an unthinkable moment. This applies to everyone, but perhaps especially to children and young people. Social media have many positive sides, but the shadow side is that it can also be used for gross bullying and for publishing unwanted information about individuals – with a desire to harm. The centre party strongly opposes the Data Storage Directive. We don't think it's okay for the state to store all the information about who you're talking to, who you're texting to, who you're emailing to, and really where you're at any time. The central party believes that the Data Storage Directive is a significant violation of the privacy of individual citizens. We do not want the State to require the retention of detailed information on the everyday tasks of citizens. We believe that the benefits the police had to get from this, in no way in relation to the major challenges it poses for the privacy of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e534	The privacy has never really been as threatened as it is right now. It shows how important it is that we have active data supervision and how important it is that we have control mechanisms to take care of this. I especially want to raise three areas where we see great challenges. One concerns children and privacy. Today, we have many arrangements that allow children to be monitored. We have school systems, and we have parents' systems that allow children to be monitored – everything with good intentions. What I'm worried about is how over time we undermine respect for having a private life – when we actually see that we can easily monitor children and tell children that their privacy is not worth anything. What kind of generation are we getting, then, when young people growing up have been exposed to such surveillance, where their privacy is not worth anything? For my generation, I remember there were big debates – in the media too – whether it was right that parents read journals when they found them. My mother told me that she thought it was wrong to read diaries, sail if you found them. Today, we have arrangements that allow parents to monitor all communication and e.g.. where children are at all times. I think children also have the right to privacy. Another major challenge is health records, how easily very private and very sensitive information can be diverted. So that's the whole world of things we're surrounded by, where we have an incredible number of possibilities through the use of laptops, iPads and smartphones for a lot of fun, a lot of entertaining and a lot of simplistic grips in everyday life. But it also limits us to being very vulnerable as advertising objects, where you can get information from all sides. I'll give you an example: we have banks and credit agencies, which can circulate on social media, on card payments, on mobile applications, on all sorts of things that make you get mortgages in the future based not only on your payment pattern, but also on how sensible your friends use the wallet, if you buy healthy enough food, if you're productive enough, or use Facebook while you're actually sitting in the working hours. There is a lot of information that can be gathered around it, and that can be used to injure privacy – sail if all of these things also lead to a lot of positive in terms of both research, business models and making the day more fun. The left has today presented a proposal to ensure Norwegian citizens' ownership of their own data. This is something that the European Commission has presented to Parliament. We believe that this is a very important right, and that it is important that Parliament confirms such a right at an early stage. We're losing control of the data we have. We have more and more knowledge of each other, but we have less opportunities to enter and consent and the ability to withdraw data – to withdraw information about a seagoing vessel, and to say that what you have actually spent is your own property. There is something fundamental in the developments we see, which makes it more difficult and difficult at all to get the opportunity – or the right – to be forgotten. We have to be in front of the technology and not hang out for it. So I think it's a very important principle that every citizen should also have control of information that's outsourced by others, whether it's from the public or from the business community. Now, when we see that recruitment companies with the Public Procurement Act can ask by hand for data on graduates at Norwegian universities, there is something seriously wrong with the whole view of ownership of the information about seafaring. That is why I am addressing the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e549	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e552	A feature of privacy challenges is that they are often cross-sectoral. Privacy interests must always be weighed against other interests, such as: effectiveness and safety in different contexts. The annual reports also show that the impact field of the Data Protection Authority and the Subject is wide. We record that issues are increasingly at a transnational level. Increasing use of information storage in the so-called cloud is an example of a theme of transnational aspects. Instead of storing information on own computer, storage services are provided in large external server parks. This can be cost-effective and practical, for example: if you want to share information with others. On the other hand, user data control can be reduced. They have little control over where the information is located in the world, and challenges may arise in relation to the legislation applicable to the processing of the data. It is important that enterprises that process personal data are aware of the privacy challenges that may arise when purchasing storage services in cloud computing. The administration collects large amounts of personal data for different public purposes. A highly relevant issue is the ability of the administration to reuse collected information for purposes other than the purpose of collection. Such re-use of personal data raises data protection challenges, while it may be very useful in the work of the administration. In particular, in terms of privacy, the knowledge of the flow of information about itself by data subjects is relevant. Information is essential to enable them to contribute to the protection of their privacy. New technologies allow for new control measures. This is particularly visible in the labour market. Various control measures are put in place to ensure increased productivity and to ensure the safety of employees and customers. The Working Environment Act states that control and monitoring measures in the workplace must be factually based on the conditions of the enterprise and do not impose disproportionate burdens on the employee. Before implementing control measures, they shall be discussed with the staff so that no more extensive action is taken than the situation warrants. Staff shall be informed of the measures taken and the purpose of them. Where control measures require the processing of personal data, the rules of the Data Protection Act shall apply. It is important that Norwegian employers know and relate to the rules in force. They must make careful assessments of the need for control measures and how personal data collected can be used. The government continuously assesses whether there is a need for clearer rules or whether the challenges can be solved by other means, such as: through various information measures. As Minister of Renewal, I am concerned that ICT and the use of the Internet and social media are basically positive and have come to stay. But the web also has pages that are not quite that positive. There's been a lot of people around here today. Unfortunately, some privacy violations occur. This may include the undesirable interpretation of images, or the mention of a person on a web forum, where the person concerned is not able to influence what is being published. Often this hits those who are most vulnerable. The role and responsibility of the public to prevent the disclosure of information that violates privacy on the Internet is a challenge. The possibility of intervention is limited, for example: because several of the most used social networks are established outside Norwegian jurisdiction. The government has contributed to the creation and operation of the guidance service by far.no. This has become an important service for many who experience network abuse. At the same time, I believe that the industry itself needs to take a significant responsibility to prevent the dissemination of infringing information on the network. Attitude-building work and information on network use among children and young people are important and must continue in the years to come. Data supervision is an active contributor to the education campaign You decide. Much of the prevention work also needs to be done in other arenas. We adults have to set up good role models for their children when it comes to online use. The government aims to provide a big message of privacy in the autumn. There we are working on the follow-up to the Commission's report, but we are also aiming to present a few more themes in that communication, including: what the representative Trine Skei Grande has listed here: the right to control your personal data.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e579	We have recorded in the media several tragic accidents in which the demente has taken a walk into the open and not found again to where they occurred. There have been questions about whether it is good enough that they have an alarm on them. Then you will be able to record that something has happened, but one doesn't know where it has happened, and one finds them at a time that often causes a tragic outcome. Would the State Council consider the use of GPS on dementes, which could result in such persons being found within a short time if they were to leave their home? I have understood it so that the Data Protection Authority supports such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e586	It is the Minister of Health who is responsible for the necessary legislation that can ensure that we use GPS technology to find dents. There is no doubt that there is a demanding debate that has many shades. But I believe that with the right assumptions and the right reservations, there will be a good opportunity, and I will not from my department oppose the introduction of that kind of technology if the Minister of Health thinks it is an appropriate way to help us secure people who need it. But I think it's important that we find systems that allow you to consent to that kind of use while you're able to give a conscious consent. It will be the safest and the best, but in cases where it is not necessary, we may need to consider other ways of solving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e591	I noticed that within their allocated minutes the Council of State did not take up requests from the case rapporteur, so we tried again to see if there could be time for that. These are the student administrative data where third parties request information about students at our universities and universities because they are to be commercially exploited. The question is, is it satisfactory for the Council of State that they can do so with the Public Health Act in hand? The second thing I did was the Data Storage Directive – about the State Council had some views on the issue that it was so urgent to adopt last year, and that it is no longer urgent. It was only postponed until 1 July, and later it has been postponed indefinitely. It may also be of interest to Stortingen to obtain an assessment of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e600	With regard to the first question from the representative Tetzschner, it is correct that the Ministry of Knowledge has said that the Public Information Act takes precedence over the Data Protection Act when issuing so-called class lists from universities. It is then important that the person receiving such information should deal with them in line with the rules of the Data Protection Act. So that's how the Public Relations Act is going to be reviewed. I am aware that the Ministry of Justice will make those kinds of assessments, and then this will also be a natural theme to include in the changes that may be proposed in the Public Health Act. With regard to the Data Storage Directive and its timetable, it is the Minister for Transport who has operational responsibility. The matter is under assessment in the Post and Telecommunications Authority – on some technical solutions. I am not fully aware of how far that work has come, but it is storage technology that has been discussed lately in the supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e607	I believe the Council of State and I have slightly different assessments of privacy. Privacy is always broken up against other interests, and then the level at which we think privacy should be lost. I reacted a little to the starting sentence in the post of the Council of State: She started by saying that efficiency is a reason to lose privacy. She mentioned two areas in which privacy had to be lost to other considerations, and so the Council of State believes that efficiency is a matter for the loss of privacy. That's what I think the Council of State should justify, because then privacy isn't much worth. I think we may disagree on the level at which privacy should be activated anyway, but it's not much worth if we have to lose it because we're going to do things more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e614	I think the representative Trine Skei Grande must have misunderstood what I said. What I said in my main post was: ‘Personal protection interests must always be balanced against other interests, such as: effectiveness and safety in different contexts.’» This does not mean that, in all those contexts, data protection is to be assessed. But we see that privacy interests need to be constantly evaluated and assessed and challenged because we are finding solutions that can be more effective and perhaps somewhat less secure. That's why we see that there's a pressure between just the three interests. I have not said in my post that the privacy policy should always be assessed. What I meant to find out in my post is that there are several different issues that we need to constantly assess, and privacy interests are not the only ones to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e624	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e629	It was Trine Skei Grande's post that made me redraw. But before I go into it, and since no one else has mentioned it, I will link some comments to the Privacy Policy, which is, of course, the Board of Appeal for matters dealt with by the Data Protection Authority. During the reporting year, the Data Protection Officer converted the decision of the Data Protection Supervisor in six of 14 cases dealt with and there is a significantly higher proportion than in previous years. I just want to make it clear that we believe that this is not a result of poorer processing at the Data Protection Authority, but rather an expression that several cases have been complex and fundamental. I would also like to remind you that the total number of complaints is low, taking into account the significant amount of the data protection service. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, says that children and young people get signals that their privacy is irrelevant, and that it's like the signal society is giving. I disagree. I believe that today's youth has a much more reflective relationship with privacy than the previous generations have had. They use social media, edit their privacy settings on Facebook, etc. I think Skei Grande's diary example shows that things were not better before and that technology can be privacy-promoting. While private notes at the time might have been protected by a small padlock on a book, today’s youth can put private notes on a PC and protect it with passwords and in other ways, through e.g. access controls. What we need to do better is to teach children and young people how to protect their own privacy. The waving paper is not a good privacy. In general, there is something very retrospective, romantic and technology-pessimistic in many of these privacy debates. Paper is no better than electronics, but electronics have to be regulated. Or to put it another way: politics has to follow the electronics. In conclusion, I just want to say that of course privacy is under pressure, but everything was not better before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e638	I must agree with Mr Haugli's representative on one point and disagree on another. I agree with what he says, that the criticism that has been promoted against the fact that there is a relatively high conversion rate in the Subject of Privacy, is not evidence that the Data Protection Authority is taking errors of the legal status, or that the Data Protection Officer is living in another world. This is a statement that you have a real two-stage process. What could worry us more was if there were a very large number of complaints that ended up in the Privacy Policy. But it's also true that all of them, most of them settle down and accept the solutions they've been given from the Data Protection Agency. When it comes to the attack on the representative Skei Grande, which she can probably follow up on herself, I have to say – and this is where I disagree with the representative Haugli – that I have a bit of the same feeling as the representative Skei Grande when you listen to the council. I've learned to listen like this: you start with the fan, that privacy is important. The overture is so right to be made aware that this is a consideration that is balanced against other considerations. And every time reference is made to a balancing situation, I'm glad to see that the Council of State really says that here we actually have to let go of some efficiency, because we consider privacy to have the right to drive. I hope I live long enough to be wrong about this. You can also adjust the course, and maybe later state councils will adjust this, but I don't think we should pretend that the government department is the big driver on privacy issues. So it's the Data Protection Authority that is, and that's why we have it. I also think we can take some comfort in the fact that it is blowing new winds from one of the most important sources of Norwegian law at the moment, namely the European Commission. On 25 January of this year, a new legal basis was presented for the evaluation of the 1995 Directive, which focuses on a strengthened citizen's influence, on increased legal certainty in the area of privacy, and where one of the more concrete proposals is that all European Data Protection Supervisors – the Article 29 Group, as it is also called, and where our own data supervision meets as an observer – should be strengthened. It is clear that if this goes through in the European Parliament, our own data supervision will also be strengthened as a result of legal developments in the EU. We appreciate that, we're trailers of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e649	My remark about children and technology was based on a unanimous wording in the sample that has assessed our privacy and, among other things, that. Mr Tetzschner was a member of the Committee. It points out that today we have so many ways of monitoring children and young people, from the adult side, that it puts our entire privacy under enormous pressure. Let me explain it briefly. First of all, I think a lot of young people today, both in the middle of the debate, in school and in other fields, are getting a lot more aware of what they're doing online. It's good, sail if I think a lot of people are going to experience that they weren't aware of it and didn't get enough advice. But what I'm talking about is adults monitoring children. When you experience in social terms that adults pick up their cell phone to check where the 16-year-old is, and find out that up and down and down that ground must mean that the 16-year-old is actually on stage with his friends, sailing if you are 16, I think there's too much information for parents to sit on, and that happens. While parents in my generation had a debate about what was my privacy as a child, I experience today that there is no debate about how much adults can monitor children, where the limit is that children should also have a privacy, where the limit is that you as a 16-year-old can actually chat with someone you want to chat with without Mom and Dad knowing it, that you can actually have some zones in your life that are your own, that are not your own, that don't have insight, and that maybe you have control of, and that you experience as your own. I see that the school portals that are being developed allow teachers to go into the most private spheres of school students today without any kind of closures, without the students knowing it, and monitor the activity they are doing, for example. is online. We do this without debate. What I think we get then is a generation of children who are told that their privacy is not worth anything. Having a zone that's just yours, or chatting with a girlfriend when you're 16, is something that actually belongs to you. It doesn't have anything for adults, whether it's your teacher or your mother. Never letting children and young people have any private sons think I'm creating a generation that doesn't respect the privacy of others either. And then I think that in 20-30 years' time, privacy and privacy in this room will be as weak as it is in the Workers' Party for the time being. There are very few reasons why private life should be given priority over other reasons — yes, when the Council of State does not do so in relation to efficiency measures, we are bad out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e660	A comment on what both Tetzschner and Skei Grande were now: The government is making data protection assessments almost daily in relation to new legislative proposals, where we are balancing the desire to use new and efficient technologies, new ways of collecting data and new ways of compiling registers. Data protection assessments are being carried out, and decisions are being taken that take into account privacy in a number of cases. So I'm going to reject that we don't take privacy considerations. So I agree with those who here say that new technological solutions offer new opportunities, but can also be challenging. Therefore, it is important that we discuss privacy in a more comprehensive context. I also see that we need to focus on the privacy of children and young people in the future. But with regard to the age groups we're going to assess, I also think there's a lot of reason to look at the adult generation. I actually think many children and young people have at least the same reflective relationship with, for example. using new social media like it does, and often I think it's the children who train parents to take the necessary privacy considerations when they're on social media. I think the setbacks we see, and the need to get help out of some of those situations, are at least as big in those who are adults as in those who are children and young people. We need to upgrade our knowledge, and I look forward to discussing privacy through the big message we're going to provide this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e672	The representative, Håkon Haugli, has spoken twice on the matter and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e675	Now I see that the representative Trine Skei Grande has left the hall, but it was a very special post we got from her here at the end. First of all, I want to distance myself from the description of misery she gives. It's simply not right that young people have no private zones. Secondly, with regard to the Workers' Party's position on privacy, it is laid down in overall committee remarks – so we agree on most of what is coming here today. We have, as I mentioned in my main post, been in the government to strengthen the Data Protection Agency by 10 million. kr, i.e. Almost 50 pst. But unlike Left, we see that privacy is not absolute either – or. We need to consider different considerations, and sometimes we also need to intervene in privacy, but of course it needs to be balanced. So it's not like privacy is a trump card that you can flip in, that balances all other societal considerations. So we look at it differently relative to the left. I think the absolutely most important signal we're giving from here today is to say that children and young people's privacy is important. We're all, I think, concerned about it, and we need to strengthen our efforts so that children and young people can take better care of their privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e686	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e702	I can't get enough stress that competition has helped give us the welfare society we have today. We have largely based our economy on market economy models. This has also been the key to success in the Norwegian model. In the social market economy, the State shall ensure firm competition in product markets and correct market failures. This is how market forces will work for a better society. In the transport sector – and in particular in it – competition is therefore very important. All Norwegians are dependent on daily transport — whether by bus, train or speedboat, on their way to school, work or leisure. That's why I want to address the competitive situation in this part of our society. The results of the NSBs — Norway’s Statsbaners — were presented earlier this year. A total of 178,5 million passengers travelled with the NSB group last year, divided by 53 million by train and 126 million by bus. This was an increase from 2010 to a total of almost eleven million passengers, of whom Nettbuss accounted for ten of them. It may seem that the NSB is becoming a bus company. I am happy when a state company can provide good services, but in this case I am very concerned about the competitive situation in an important segment of the nation. Netbuss is a wholly-owned subsidiary of state-owned Norwegian State Railways. This could easily lead to a lack of competition for other operators in the bus industry on equal terms. So a little bit of problems in the NSB. While strict rules on internal pricing in a group are followed, there will often be elements of cross-subsidisation that cannot be completely eliminated. Firstly, distorting elements such as the interconnection of purchasing agreements on fuel, electricity and other things with the NSB. Secondly, very favourable financing at low internal interest rates from the parent company for the purchase of both other companies and bus equipment. We have a duty to ask ourselves if the state will raise capital if a private bus company is at risk of bankruptcy. The answer is no. Will the State deposit capital into a State-owned bus company if it is at risk of bankruptcy? The answer is yes. Therefore, the State-owned company receives an advantage when it comes to raising capital. This is just one example. Thirdly, access to central property, in connection with infrastructure and transport hubs, from the sister company Rome Eiendom. So here you get access to these types of properties. And last, but absolutely not least: the pay off when the NSB has broken lines that make the negative bids they're sitting on can be greatly improved. I have to admit, this is really quite ironic. When the NSB has to drive a bus for trains, which happens more often than we would like, the number of passengers increases to Nettbuss. Netbus receives a financial gain when the parent NSB does not deliver the train journey purchased by the passengers. They get this economic gain, and it all gets a little bit weird. Will the NSB focus on improving the offer of its passengers on the train when there is less pressure from politicians by building peripheral and competing businesses in the group? I doubt it. So a little bit to the express bus market: that the NSB is the parent company of Nettbuss, can create a lot of distortion of competition. Then I think both in the local traffic market and in the express bus market. I fear that we may be left with public owned bus operators in a few years' time, and will use the express bus market as an example, because the previous civil government was very busy creating a good bus offer both for the city and the countryside and between regions of Norway. Will the result be that we get a monopolistized bus company under the control of the Norwegian State Railways? It was the centre-right government that really dared to take the steps that modernised the use of instruments in Norwegian transport. Public–private cooperation was widely used on three major road projects. The Gjøvik Railway was put at a competitive disadvantage, and according to the report of the Transport Economic Institute, the result was a better offer to passengers and a lower price for the public without compromising the pay and working conditions of employees. In addition, the civil government created Avinor – a venture that has later made Norwegian aviation one of the most modern in the world. Buss was important to the Bondevik II government. The express bus market was liberalised in 2003. Since then, this market has been growing rapidly. The Transport Economic Institute has published a report — report 904/2007 — showing that express bus companies generate a socio-economic benefit of about 1.5 billion. kr every year. That is a huge amount for our society – a gain gained through good competition policy from a civil government. Drought half of the passengers on the express buses would alternatively travel by car, and the express buses greatly contribute to reducing the number of cars on the roads, which is positive for both the environment and road safety. Good competition and low prices thus contribute to faster progress – and safe home. It is therefore important to have a level playing field. The Competition Authority has repeatedly been in possession of Nettbuss. As late as November 2011, Nettbuss was subject to a temporary enforcement ban under the Competition Act. This was a merger with Fjord1 in the North West. In 2004, the Competition Authority considered that NSB AS and Nettbuss AS should be separated into two independent companies. The Authority expressed its concern at the ownership of Nettbuss by the NSB at the time. According to the Competition Authority’s opinion, the ownership of the two companies leads to: ‘overall achieves a strong position vis-à-vis other actors in bus and train passenger traffic over longer distances. This may result in restricted competition and high barriers to establishment. Furthermore, cross-subsidies from NSB AS to Nettbuss AS may result in benefits for Nettbuss AS compared to the other bus companies’. I am pleased when a state-owned company succeeds in its work. Netbuses can refer to an impressive passenger growth, and from their own experience, buses are highly recommended. But what I'm really worried about is that this growth is not happening on the basis of a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e741	The representative Ingerd Schou refers to the 2012 national budget, where it appears that competition is important to contribute to the efficient use of society’s resources. Therefore, the Competition Authority has as its primary task the enforcement of the anti-competitive cooperation and abuse of dominant positions by the Competition Act, as well as the assessment of anti-competitive mergers and industrial acquisitions. For our government, however, competition is an instrument, and not an objective in itself. The Government therefore considers that in some areas, such as health, education, care and rail passenger transport, privatisation and commercialisation should not govern development. The representative Schou stated in the interview that the government has not been aware of developments in the market for bus passenger services and that Nettbuss AS, through its parent company NSB AS, obtains a number of advantages that private bus operators cannot access. I believe that there is no basis for any of the claims. In the field of scheduled services, we can distinguish between urban and intra-territory bus routes on one side and cross-country bus routes on the other. In urban and internal regions, there is competition for a market in the form of competitive tendering. An operator who is granted route licences holds this for a certain number of years before a new invitation to tender is launched for the granting of the licence. In order to obtain the amount of public transport that is desirable, inter alia: in the larger cities, government grants are often necessary. The cross-border regular services include, inter alia: a number of express bus lines. There is competition between commercial operators in the market. It is open to bus companies that meet the qualification requirements, and several companies can operate in parallel on the same route and compete, inter alia. on price and quality. In the case of public procurement of bus services in urban and rural areas, the objectives of the government’s competition policy are pursued through the EU’s collective transport regulation, implemented in Norwegian law by the regulation of 17 December 2010. It follows from the Regulation that, as a general rule, all public transport service contracts are to be awarded on a competitive basis by 3 December 2019 at the latest. The rules on public procurement, together with the regulation on public transport, shall contribute to the cost-effectiveness of public procurement of bus services and to the public's confidence that these purchases are carried out in a socially appropriate manner. The first bus offer was made in the mid-1990s in Uppland County. Tenders amounted to only 0,5 pst at that time. of the total road transport production. The latest list of tenders from NHO Transport shows that as of March 2012 it is 65 pst. of the total regular bus production in Norway which has been tendered. According to NHO Transport, all states will have 100 pst. tenders with effect from 2017, i.e.: before the deadline set in the EU public transport regulation. As I see it, competition for regular services in Norway is strong. The increasing proportion of municipal bus routes being tendered represents increasing competition between bus and coach companies from both the domestic and foreign countries. In order to maintain its market positions, today’s companies must win new tendering contracts. The bus companies operating in the country's express bus corridors experience competition for long-distance traffic, which can choose between aircraft, bus, rail and car as well as fast boat. On several routes, such as Oslo–Kristiansand and Bergen–Stavanger, several bus operators operate in more or less direct competition with each other. While competition in today’s road transport industry is satisfactory, it is important to be clear that economic operators can achieve significant benefits by cooperating on prices, distributing markets between themselves or by other means to acquire and exploit market power to the detriment of society and consumers. Consequently, competition supervision follows developments in the bus market and deals with ongoing concentrations and any complaints about competition. Competition supervision has several times assessed business services in the bus industry, most recently by Nettbuss’ acquisition of Fjord1 in November 2011 and purchase of 36 pst. of the shares in Telemark Collective transport from Telemark Bilruter AS. In June 2010, Nettbuss acquired Tøndelag AS up for Kleburten AS in Sør-Trøndelag. Competition supervision did not intervene in any of these cases because supervision did not find that buying-in would lead to or strengthen a significant restriction of competition contrary to the objectives of the Competition Act. In today's bus industry, there are mainly eight major domestic companies, where Nettbuss AS is the largest. According to the annual report of Nettbuss for 2010, the group had a total domestic market share of 30 p.p., measured in number of buses. Calculations made by the Competition Authority in connection with the acquisition of Nettbuss by the company Fjord1 in November 2011 show that the Nettbuss group currently also has a significant market share in the country’s cross-border passenger car sector. As the representative Schou has pointed out, Nettbuss is owned by NSB AS. Netbus AS is the parent company of the Netbus Group with more than 35 subsidiaries. The group operates in Norway, Sweden and Denmark. The company’s core activities are concentrated on urban and county scheduled car transport operations, as well as over-the-counter express bus services and other regular car services. The overall objective of State ownership in the NSB is to contribute to the achievement of the government’s transport policy objective of an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system. The NSB is currently a monopolist on passenger transport by train with the exception of the Oslo-Gjøvik route, which was put at a competitive disadvantage in 2006. As far as the relationship between NSB and Nettbuss is concerned, I would like to stress that Nettbuss cannot be considered to be a public undertaking in any particular competitive position, as the representative Schou seems to claim. Netbus provides transport services to counties in line with private companies, and the company has no public obligations. Although the Netbus Group is wholly owned by NSB AS, the companies of the group are organised as separate limited liability companies and are separated from the core activities of the NSB in accounting, management, personnel and physical terms. Deposits of equity from the NSB to Netbuss are made in accordance with the same principles as apply to private investors, taking into account risks in the business and income requirements set by the group itself. In addition, the company has its own IT solutions, including accounting and pay systems, as well as its own staff and support functions. Data operations and network services are purchased from the NSB Group data company Arrive AS at market prices. The same applies to other financial services and supplies sold by NSB to Nettbuss. Netbus previously had a specialty in purchasing bus services in case of no planned deviation in the train running. This has now ceased and all such bus services have been tendered since 2011. I therefore believe that there is a small risk that Nettbuss could obtain benefits through its parent company NSB AS which violates the rules on public support and acquisitions. It is difficult to understand what conditions the representative Schou believes are different in Norway today. In summary, I believe that there is a reasonable degree of competition in the markets for the carriage of passengers by bus. The follow-up of these markets by enforcement of the Competition Act will help maintain competition. I can't see that there is any reason to claim that Nettbuss has any advantages that private bus operators cannot access. Competition will be maintained or strengthened in the future by increasing the number of local bus routes to be tendered by 2019. In that case, all contracts for collective transport services shall, as a general rule, be tendered.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e775	I think I would recommend the Council of State to make a conversation not only with the monopolised bus company Nettbuss, but also with all the other actors, of whom there are fewer and fewer, to hear if they feel that there is a basis for saying that there is a distortion of competition. In addition, it is not surprising, but it is a pity that the government is completely locked in getting away to actors other than the public not only in the health and school sectors, but also in the transport sector. It's a shame that you're not open to competition, and that private bus companies can help promote people in both the city and the district. I feel that competition is positive, but as the government and the Council of State have now produced it, one will be able to end up with one public bus company, that they will win tenders by tender, and that this has given them a new monopoly, and that the NSB has become a bus company. Netbuses thus have a foot in all markets, both at internal level, in cities, between cities, on long distances and in the express bus market. A survey from NHO Transport last year showed that the number of bus companies has fallen since 2000. I quote from Report 1167/2011, a smoking fresh status update for the bus industry carried out by the Institute for Transport Economics: ‘Number of companies involved in express bus services has decreased since 2003. This can mainly be attributed to buying-in. It is not certain that there are conditions within the express bus industry that are the driving force behind this. The companies large in express busses are also large in intra-corporate bus operations.» Furthermore, the internal market is said to be a significantly larger market than the express bus market. I quote: ‘It is reasonable to assume that the main effect is that developments in the express bus market are not the opposite of developments in the other bus market.’ When Netbuss now enters this market, this raises competition issues under different conditions. With the criticism from the Competition Authority and the figures from the Transport Economic Institute as a backstop, not only I, but also the government should be concerned about the competitive situation in the Norwegian bus industry today. How will the State Council ensure competition conditions in the Norwegian bus industry? The Council of State has mentioned many good measures to ensure good competition in this market, but the issue is whether the Council of State will take the initiative towards the NSB to ensure that competition takes place on a level playing field, that other bus companies are given access to the same competitive edge as Nettbuss – or that Nettbuss has to act in the same way as other operators, and that other bus companies have the same advantage and access to bus services for trains, under the heading ‘equal conditions and transparency of processes’, and that competitive conditions become equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e798	I just have to repeat some figures for the representative of Schou, who says that we are against competition in the bus transport market. So that's how the NSB has approx. 30 pst. by the market on the internal routes. That is 70 pst. continue to be operated by other private bus operators. There are at least eight large companies that carry out that type of service and are involved in competing for assignments. I have registered that the Competition Authority has repeatedly assessed the purchases made by the NSB in bus traffic, and found that they do not share in limiting competition in such a way that there is a basis for action. In this area, I have great reason to have confidence in the assessments made by the Competition Authority. I am a little surprised that the representative Schou does not see that the Competition Authority has just carried out assessments of the purchases that have been made. Then it is no longer such that Nettbuss has access to run for NSB when train departures are cancelled. That service is exposed to competition. It happened in 2011. So there is no advantage for Nettbuss in participating in that part of the market. So I must be allowed to say that it is a little strange to hear the representative Schou be so concerned that Nettbuss and NSB have cooperation, because in 2009 the representative asked questions where she was concerned about having a ticket cooperation between Nettbuss and NSB, precisely because it was supposed to be good for passengers. It is difficult to achieve such cooperation if Nettbuss were not to operate in the market. So I'm recording that there's a little difference between how the representative Schou looks at Nettbus's offer in the bus industry, maybe a little depending on what starting point she has at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e809	Through a look-up in NTB on 20 February, the representative Ingerd Schou is pleased that train traffic is doing so well, but would like to further privatise passenger traffic on the railway. The political dream was also repeated in the debate now. That is the policy we saw from the government in 2001-2005. Then the NSB's competence was reduced, and the capacity was low, with little new construction. Such a development does not need the railway, and this government has reversed that development. So Nettbuss' share is 30 pst. when we measure the number of buses, and not 40 pst., as Ingerd Schou says in this interpellation debate. Netbus has increased its market share on the basis of three factors: they have won tenders for urban and county buses, they have bought up existing bus companies, where purchases have been approved by the Competition Authority, and they have developed the TIMExpress, a positive contribution to the state-of-the-art passenger car transport. I must allow myself to ask the representative Schou which of these factors is incompatible with healthy competition. The Workers' Party is not, as is well-known, a member of the increased state governance of the market, but we note that it can act as the representative Schou sees new forms of regulation and state governance, precisely that the state should strongly control the market. Finally, the Labour Party must point out that competition in public transport itself is not an objective but only an instrument for achieving an efficient use of resources. Some services make sense to put off competition, while others – such as health, education and rail passenger transport – should not be put out of competition, as this is neither good for users nor for the efficiency and quality of services. For the Right, however, it has always been an objective in itself – not an instrument. So here's a sort of debate about apples and bananas, and the Workers' Party records that we're pretty far from the Right's vision that competition is healthy at all costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e822	I would like to stress that the Right has great confidence in the work of the Competition Authority – let there be no doubt about it. It is also good with offers on the bus for trains. But Nettbuss has advantages, and when we look at the increase that has been in the NSB group, it's attributed to the bus business and the fact that more people travel by bus. In this respect, competition should be present – and equal access should be provided for it. When the representative Hov Egg asks what I mean by healthy competition, at least the first bid is that there must be a level playing field. So here, Nettbuss has a lot of advantages. I just want to comment on what the Council of State said about the condition for ticketing cooperation is that you have Nettbuss with you. If it had been up to me, you would have had one ticket for all public travel, so people felt that it was easy to use what was the collective offer – that there was cooperation between public and private. My, and Right, starting point is that infrastructure and organization for collective solutions are based on the public with the need for transport services to and from work, school and other. I will be very brief: I want to end by stressing that there is real political disagreement about whether private companies can bring innovation, new ideas, better services and diversity. The government doesn't think so, but the Right believes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e831	I'm still being surprised by the representative of Schou. There are eight large companies competing for bus transport in Norway. It can not be wrong that Nettbuss – which is a successful establishment – actually provides the public with the services they need. They do because they win the tenders. They do well, they provide services in a market like public demand. I think it's a rather strange comparison to say that the government is not for private solutions, when private has 70 pst. of the whole market. The more it sounds, the more it seems that the Right is completely opposed to the public being able to operate effectively and successfully. It seems that this is the problem – not that there are too few players in this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e836	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e842	We are then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e852	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for legislative changes to ensure that individuals are given ownership of their own data and personal data on the Internet, including the right to move and delete.’ The vote boards showed that 69 votes were cast against and 8 votes in favour. [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. (Parliament adopted the resolution)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e864	The president seems to look at some people's body language that here there's probably someone who wants us to take this vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e888	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-04-16.ana.ud1108e952	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
