ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e26	From 28 March to 30 March to take part in the 126th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Kampala, Uganda, an application has been submitted from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Terje Halleland, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e44	Terje Halleland is present and will take the seat. The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative. The Seven – not present – will not put forward a proposal for a representative, but the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde will. He wants to put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e49	On behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Kenneth Svendsen, Jørund Rytman and myself, I would like to make two representative proposals. The first is about information to each tax payer about what the tax money is used for, the second is about graduated parking tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e54	Then the representative Hans Olav Syversen will nevertheless put forward a proposal for a representative!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e57	I don't know if the president thinks it's a good explanation that you've been at Stortingen's night. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e62	It should at least provide a basis for forgiveness! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e65	That's good, especially as we approach Easter. Thank you for your forgiveness. I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of the representatives Dagfinn Høybräten, Line Henriette Hämdal, Øyvind Håbreek and myself on complex savings products, complaints bodies and the role of the Financial Supervisory Authority. Good Easter!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e74	Thank you for that, and the proposals for representatives will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e86	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen, Lars Peder Breck and Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e93	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Labour a question. On March 22nd, Dagbladet told of Stine in 20 years, who has a cerebral couplese, sitting in a wheelchair and depending on help for a lot. Thanks to assistant help, Stine is on her way to realize her dream of finishing her education, so she can get on to work. The 20-year-old girl has been granted a limited number of hours of assistance. The problem is that the number of hours does not go to if she gets sick, gets delayed or is on do longer than calculated. In winter Stine became ill and lay down a week. The message was that the hours she spent on assistance during the illness period, she had to save in later this year. This means that she is at risk of not being able to complete her schooling and not being able to complete her exams. The alternative for this girl can become a life of disability, which she does not want. The Progress Party is deeply concerned that more and more young people against their will are being permanently stamped out of work. The Progress Party wants a safe and flexible working life with room for all. I am aware that it is the municipalities that manage the BPA system today. To a large extent, they follow the national guidelines. My question to the Council of State will be: Will the Council of State transfer responsibility for BPA from the municipalities to the state, add the system under the rule of law and make it more flexible, so that the aim is to get more young people into the labour market rather than a life of social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e106	As the representative Eriksson says, it is the municipalities that manage this. Furthermore, the Minister of Health is responsible for this, so I cannot go into the details of the question that is being asked, and must ask the representative for written answers to that question. What I can say about, on the other hand, is the concern that we have many young people who today face adult life with major health problems. It's actually something we see all over Europe, it's not very typical of Norway. So we're going to realize that it's not about a lot of people. There has been a recent debate that gives the impression that there is an explosive increase in the number of young people – that is not true. But there's been an increase that we don't want, and that we know too little about what's caused. One of the important things the government has done, just to do something about this, is to present a job strategy for disabled young people to ensure that the transition between education and work is made easier, and to create action packages for these young people, so that it is less risky for employers to hire them. We know that if they come in work training, they will turn out to be extremely good and dedicated labour. It's about breaking down prejudices, and it's about opening up the working life of this youth group. We're systematically working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e115	The answer from the Minister of Labour actually illustrates the problems these young people face, precisely by a Council of State saying that this responsibility lies with the municipalities and the Minister of Health. The same problem is felt by these young people, who have a strong desire to realize a dream of getting out of work. They have a disability and are met by a fragmented system where no one takes responsibility, where they are sent from door to door without getting help, and finally they end up involuntarily on disability. The Progress Party believes that the time has come to begin coordinating the system, to see the whole, to get to a welfare office that can help these users, to realize their dreams, to achieve the goals of a life full of work opportunities and job satisfactions, which are, in fact, what these young people want. What concrete action does the Council of State want to take to coordinate these instruments so that they can be realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e124	The way this work is done today is – with respect to reporting – not correct. The entire Nav reform and the work done with individual follow-up are precisely the individual follow-up that the representative calls for. When I say that I do not answer directly to that question, it is because it is a very detailed question relating to the BPA system, which I, as a non-responsible minister, believe it is wrong that I should stand up and comment on. I have to make sure that the representative gets a good answer to that. But it is not illustrative that a fragmentary administration is linked to the follow-up of young people with severe, severe disorders. You have a division between the welfare system and the health system – you have to have that. But in addition to that, the whole Nav reform is a good structure around these young people, and I repeat: Never have we had such a big stake in young people with disabilities as we have today, through the job strategy we have now put forward. No government has previously submitted a similar initiative. Then we will get better – I fully agree – but this is also now a first, big bet. Then we're going to get the good results, because it's also important to help bring down the prejudices against people with disabilities at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e133	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e136	I would like to point out two major weaknesses, which also follow the new job strategy. One is a user-controlled personal assistant. A lot of those with severe disabilities are totally dependent on user-led personal assistants to be able to get out of work. I have an example of a blind lady with additional diseases who got a job at Adaptor, but who had to wait for one year because the municipality and Nav were arguing about which of those who would pay for the extra assistance she had to have in the form of either a user-driven personal assistant or another person who could help her at work. The end of this was that she had to go to a day's offer, after many years of schooling. It is a big problem that Nav is not also responsible for that kind of assistance. Another major problem is that when someone has been in the investigation, they have to wait up to six, seven, eight months after the first investigation before they move on. Does the Council of State think this is the right way to get them with disabilities or young people with problems out in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e143	I am not familiar with that description of the job strategy. The job strategy is – for the first time – a package around each disabled youth. So just so you don't have to wait six or seven months, we've made a package that you get, and we've made follow-up in every state. Every Nav office shall know that package. Major instruments have been put in place, including: Social work assistants, so that you can bring with you a person – we have strengthened that service – who can help you to get involved in working life, so that you can be at work and have someone with you who actually does some of the services you can't do. I think we've made something here that has a very big prerequisite for success. Then we have to be aware that this is not an easy job. I feel that the opposition is constantly talking as if it is a failed statement that I have not settled this since this job strategy came into force in January. It's a heavy job. We haven't done this for many, many years. Now let's make an effort. Can't we wait and see the result before we start to criticize what you don't have in this effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e150	Sylvi Graham – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e153	The government likes to boast that more people are at work than ever. It's a truth with modifications. The employment rate is no higher today than it was in 2005, in fact the employment rate of disabled people is lower than it was in 2005 — it is down to only 42,3 p.p., almost half of the other employment rate in the country. It hasn't been lower as long as we find numbers back in the SSB. At the same time, we see that it took five years for this government to put forward this action plan to get people with disabilities into work — the Right then wanted to be welcomed. But in the same budget, they just as well agreed to cut the tax deduction for large sickness costs, despite the fact that this deduction has been a condition for many people with disabilities in order for them to be able to stay in work. Schemes such as work and training trips and the Staff Regulations are used as pilot schemes for n-th consecutive years, even if this could help more people out in work. Will the Council of State reconsider its position in any of these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e161	We can discuss the employment rate in Norway, but never have so many people depended on their own income in Norway as they do today. We're absolutely at the top of the world about this. Then we can also welcome you for the job strategy. There have been governments before this government that could have put forward a job strategy that did not – we have done it. I think it's a good job we've done, and we're going to work on it. As far as these temporary arrangements are concerned, it is of course possible to discuss whether they could be permanent. It's an economic question, and there's been some economic priorities associated with it. What's important to me is that we're not in the situation in Norway that someone is being rejected from those schemes because we don't have money under them. Therefore, they are not themselves, and that they are probationary schemes, preventing these young people from getting into work. But one could wish them permanent, but it is an economic priority that has been made. In this case with special deductions, we have had that discussion earlier here. Then I was told that there would be a sea of people who did not get into work because of this. We haven't seen that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e172	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e175	The beginning of the question was about Stine, a girl who wanted to and did what she could to get to work. She needs a little more assistance to be able to do it, and that's what's the challenge. But Stine is not alone in ending disability rather than getting out of education and getting into work. If you look at the total statistic, there's 78 000 people with disabilities who say they want work, but many of them need some help. It is interesting to hear from the Council of State saying that so much is being done – a job strategy and one after the other. In any case, my goal is not that the Council of State alone is responsible; it is the government we experience that does not do enough. The right point is that the proportion of people with disabilities in work has fallen — from 45 pst. in 2007 until now only 42 pst. How can the Council explain that it has done so much, while the figures show that there are so many people who want to get to work, but can't do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e184	I fully agree that 78 000 are many, and it is not 78 000 of those who would actually get into work if we made it right – I think we should be so honest to say it. We'll never be able to get all the 78 000 into work. We kind of have to be a little bit sober about that number. But we're going to have a lot more work to do. When I say it's done a lot, I'm not saying it's done enough, and I'm not saying this is what's to be done. But I'm saying that no government has done what we're doing in the past. This has started to work from 1 January, and now we have to give it a chance – that is what I am concerned about. We need to have a sober discussion. If we have a discussion about having 78 000 people with disabilities at work, and constantly measuring against it, we're going to be disappointed, and we're also going to disappoint the organisations of people with disabilities, because they're not there either. I'm the first one to admit that we're going to do more all the time. But we are the government that has put forward the first job strategy. I want us to now see how it works. And then there are no governments in the past who have managed to bring down the number of people with disabilities who are at work. Okay, there's been a decrease from 45 to 42 pst, but it's actually been at that level for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e193	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e196	I don't think you need to be a politician to see that there's something that's not entirely in line with our system. We can look at it on the numbers, and then we can look at it on the stories. It's young people who tell me that they're feeling unsuitable as a kind of imposition. There are young social clients who say that they experience being referred to passivity, that they sit for months after month without getting any offer. We also know that there are people who are exploiting the system. On NRK’s websites today, we can see that in Hedmark and Oppland, ‘nave’ has become a word for many young people. It has become a word you use that someone else should take responsibility. It's become a word you use about taking a year off at school; you can "nave" a year. It's actually also a word I know from my home country, Telemark. In Åmli, where what we can call a major coalition of the working line, consisting of the Right Party and the Labour Party, governs, they started a program a few years ago where they say that all social clients are going to be active from day one. They say it's important, not just because there's fewer social clients of it, 70 pst. reduction in their budgets, they also say it is important because it helps social clients. More people come out to work. More people don't want to be passive. Activity is important and activity works. The government has provisionally rejected the national tightening of the rules. The Council of State has said that what she intends to do is now to examine – after six years of red-green government – the number of municipalities that practice the obligation of activity. The A-press, which is also not unknown to the Workers' Party, says in a management article today, which is very good, that the government should meet the proposal with an open mind, and then they refer to the old slogan of the labour movement, do your duty, demand your right. Will the Council of State be involved in a major coalition of the working line, for duty of activity, also here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e205	To ‘nave’ is completely unacceptable. That's why this government has a huge investment in social security fraud, and we have to work together all the time to avoid getting these attitudes. I fully agree with that. In the case of Åmli, we've had a discussion about this before. It is good that a former Central Party rapporteur, now the Labour Party rapporteur, is an important inspiration for the Right. This shows that today we have access to oblige social clients to outsource activity, to work. That obligation, that possibility, is there today. The only difference, and that's a pretty big difference, is that while the Right wants a general obligation – that's what it is, and you don't get money if you don't – we say that there's an assessment here. Too many of the social clients are not going to swing axes, they're going to get health-related benefits. They're going on detoxification. I'm very skeptical about having the ex-narcos or drug addicts swinging with the axe in the woods, to put it a little on the top. There's something else they should have in many cases. But where activity is important and right, we're going to be a lot neater, maybe, to get it started. Then I see a little hallowed that after six years – I haven't been sitting for six years, but at least for over two years – I'm investigating this. This is with the municipalities. We know that the municipalities are doing this pretty much. So for that reason, we haven't carried out any general investigation. But I see the point, and I'll divide out points when the points are there. I see the point, and that's why we're going to do it on two levels. First, we need to have a quick review with the statesmen to know what kind of activity is being used, because it's also very important. I'm very concerned that it should be meaningful, what we offer these people. They're supposed to get to work, it's not just supposed to be a punishment. The second is that we need to do a larger survey to map the whole system of social assistance and obligation to work. I think that's important. Then I also have to ask Torbjørn Røe Isaksen: what are the penalties? This is for the sake of living, it's the very least you should have, and it's not always so easy to take from these people this if we're going to be a civilized society. So it's kind of not as simple as it sounds. I'm concerned that we're going to use the access that's there, because I'm, like Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, even though he's trying to make it different, very concerned that activity is the way we get people back in ordinary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e216	Governments are asking for sanctions. But she certainly knows the law she herself sits and manages. The municipalities have the possibility of sanctioning. They can, for example, draw performance if you say no to activity. I expect that the Council of State also believes that the legislation is in place to be used. They do that, for example. in Åmli municipality. The truth is that the Council of State is talking about the line of work every time she is in this room, but proposals on proposals are being voted down, proposals on the obligation of activity are being put down. The right has presented a comprehensive strategy to combat read and write problems among Nav clients, which is a major problem. It was voted down. The right had a suggestion in its reign that psychiatry and intoxication should be prioritised, higher than all other areas every year. The working party has removed it. The right has suggested that we have our own reinforced race for young disabled people. The government parties are voting it down. So if the Council of State can mention one concrete proposal she intends to implement, to propose, in order to have an activity obligation in the municipalities, that's good. If it doesn't work, with all due respect, as if she's been going to "move" through these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e223	The point is that you have that access today that the sanctions the representative is talking about. We often talk about having poor children in this country. Should you take from the parents of these children the social assistance if they don't meet up with this logging? This is, with respect to reporting, much more complicated than it is now being produced. But we're going to use the duty of activity where it's necessary and correct. And we're going to make sure you do that in the future. There's no disagreement. That's the one. So I believe that we have put forward a lot of proper arrangements in the case of young disabled people. We have e.g. adopted a misguided reform in this country so that people can contribute as much as they can in their working life. It's very important, and it's also right-wing. So now we've done a lot of work – and that's perhaps one of the most important things – to prevent high school drop-outs. That's something other people can talk about more than me. We see it's useful. One of the most important things for young people not to fall outside is that they complete high school. Finally, I just have to say that one of the most important things we can do is make sure that kids have parents who are at work. The working line, keeping people in work, supports this government, and that's also the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e234	Three follow-up questions are raised – first by the representative Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e237	Another important prerequisite for working in the workplace is that you can read and write properly. A new study now shows that almost 50 pst. by re-routing clients so low that they would have had major problems in following courses and training on the way to life. At the same time, we know that only 3 pst. read and write training is provided by them. On the right, the last two peak periods have proposed a 10-year action plan — a systematic national effort — to increase adult literacy. It is crucial to acquire the knowledge needed to function as a citizen, and not least to function in the workplace. If the Council of State agrees with this, does she see the need for such a national reading effort for adults as has been proposed by the Right? And what kind of immediate action will the Council of State take to make Nav a reading offer to anyone who needs it, and not just the 3 percent who gets it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e247	I share that description, that much of what makes people fall out of work, probably because of a hidden problem of reading and writing. It's, as we've pointed out many times, very embarrassing for people to admit, and it's very often not revealed until you've entered properly and looked at your work skills assessment, etc., as Nav does. Then it is that within the feedback system and the feedback measures you have, there is also the possibility to operate with writing and reading training. It has provided that the reconnaissance holdings have done. I've now gone into that matter, and I'm also not entirely satisfied with how the hub and the relay companies may have expectations of one another doing the other, and the other doing the third, if you know what I'm saying? That's what I'm going to go in and watch, because I'm concerned that at least we have to make sure that those who go on labour market measures, who need reading and writing training, will get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e254	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e257	The Council of State showed earlier today in the exchange of words to the Nav system and that Nav has an individual plan. Yes, in theory you do, but in practice you meet people who say they don't get the help they should have, and that they don't get the individual plan as it says they should have. We also see that there are a lot of young people who have been through accidents, who are at risk of falling out of work, who work in a business without an IA agreement, and who do not receive an organisation grant. I thus have three concrete solutions that I would like the Council of State to look at, possibly to get an assessment from the Council of State whether she will join: Does she wish to extend the organisation grant to enterprises that do not have an IA contract? Does she wish to introduce flexible wage subsidies? Does she want to increase the supply of mental illness to young people so that they can return to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e275	So first of all, most people -- or almost 100 pst. – of the new cases now coming to Nav, which will have a follow-up plan, it will. You had a period of lag because you set up this redundancy pay scheme, where you got all those who had been on the three previous benefits, and then you had a problem giving everyone an individual plan. Now you've reached this goal, and that's very good. So it does a lot of good work to follow up in Nav, but it's very varied, and we're not in goal – I totally agree. This is why Nav has also said that the performance management has now been looked at, that the process has been reduced in the previous years, and that the quality of the services now needs to be looked at. We're going to do that. I fully agree that we have a job to do there, but I do not know myself completely again in that black paint, at least not when it comes to getting an individual plan. Then I think that, among other things, in that job strategy, there is a great deal of organisation grants. So it's not related to being an IA company. Then you can also become an IA company.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e284	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e287	We're in a field that I might say is the most important thing for the Minister of Labour to work with, namely how to get young people to work instead of going to social security. There are 40,000 people under the age of 30 who are on redundancy pay or untrained – 40,000 people. The number of young people who are illiterate has increased by 24 pst, to nearly 10,000. In the rest of the population, it's increased by 1 pst. Just 1 pst. of the young people who are dissatisfied come back to work. We have a huge challenge of getting in early. In fact, the debate on social assistance has to say that there are some young people — they are 20–25 years old — who have dropped out of school, who are unable to do so — who need to be called for. That's why the Christian People's Party got through an intermediate proposal in Stortinget, in which the Red-Greens supported our proposal that the Council of State should prepare a case and come to Stortinget with an investigation into the obligation of activity, but that takes into account that there are some groups that may not be able to get it. Is it so to understand that the Council of State will not now follow up the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e294	I will promise that I will follow up the decisions that come from Stortinget. Then you have to have some reality orientation here. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in Europe. We have a registered youth leave of 4.7 pst. – Sweden has 20 pst. Our prerequisite for keeping young people in action is therefore quite different from the rest of the world. Our ability to get people into work is perhaps more difficult, because you should go from having almost all of the young people into work to reaching the top. Then you have to bring those who are quite far away from work – we need to be aware of that. We're never going to give up this, but we have to kind of have a sense of reality that's not at crisis level, because that's not the situation in Norway. I'm the first to say that we're going to work systematically to catch up with young people and get young people who fall out into activity. I think we're doing a lot in relation to that. The new GIV is one of the most important bets we've ever made. The job strategy we're doing now is also one of the very important initiatives. Then I don't expect the opposition to praise me for that. I expect it to find the weak points, and that's good. Then we're going to continue working with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e303	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e306	My question is to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. We're going to have multiples. In Norway, we got the number five million on March 19th, and we know that we'll be six million in 16 years. The same development we see in the rest of the world. It's a big population shock. Then it's important to increase food production. Ensuring safe and short-term food is important from a public health point of view, it is important from an environmental point of view, and it is also important when we see it in an international perspective, in solidarity with the world's poor. That is why it is good that we have received an agricultural message. In the communication on agriculture, it is important that we get good tools, that we have clear strategies and clear objectives. The Christian People's Party believes that the message gives a good description, but that it is too offensive when it comes to the instrument. We are busy increasing food production. To do that, we need farmers – both today and tomorrow. Then the income development of the farmers is important from a recruitment perspective. So we need land in order to grow and to produce more food. My question to the minister is therefore: why does the government not want to reduce the unfair income gap that we see today between farmers and other groups in society, and why have they not been included in the Christian People's Party's proposal for a stronger protection of the food soil, so that we could have just increased food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e317	I appreciate all the focus on agriculture and food in this room. There are too few in this room who are concerned about the major challenges that the representative Hareide is presenting and will focus on. I am very pleased that this agricultural and food message that we have presented is getting so much attention. The setting was completed yesterday afternoon. I fully agree with Hareide's challenges. It's that in a world that has climate challenges, in a world where many people are starving, we're also going to produce food in Norway. I also fully agree that an important strategy to achieve this in Norway is to secure the resources, i.e. to secure the land base, and to ensure income opportunities. I also want to say that practical action says more than beautiful words, and I think that the representative Hareide has to take it with him. The government must be measured by what it has actually received since 2005. Over the period 2006-2012, the average income potential, measured as remuneration for labour and capital, has increased by NOK 110 000 per year, corresponding to 70 pst. Under Bondevik II, which we replaced, revenue remained stable at the same level throughout the period. I think it is very nice that the position of the Christian People's Party in the vote clearly shows in which direction they will go, that they will bet on Norwegian agriculture. Nothing is better, as I said, than that we have a lot of parties that are willing to produce Norwegian food. What alternatives does the Christian People’s Party have? Is the option to cooperate with the Progress Party and the Right? We've seen what kind of results it's given. We know that the Progress Party has proposed 6-7 billion. kr i cut and Right approx. 2 billion. kr i k cut. Is that the answer from Hareide?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e332	Then there is the representative Knut Arild Hareide for follow-up questions and any answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e336	The Minister of Agriculture asks if I say we should cooperate with the Progress Party. There is no quote on me where I say that the Christian People's Party will cooperate with the Progress Party. At least one must look very well. The problem is that it is just as difficult to find farmers in Norway who are happy with the tools provided by the government in this message. If one sees what we got when the Christian People's Party put in government – the former Minister of Agriculture who made a food report – was indeed Kåre Gjønnes from the Christian People's Party – seeing a significant result. When Bondevik II left, agricultural support amounted to 1.7 pst. by the budget, today it is only 1.4 pst. My challenge is: why can't the government agree on mandatory wording that says we should reduce the income gap when that's what the farmers want and demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e343	I think it is very nice that the representative Hareide points out that there are no quotes that he wants to cooperate with the Progress Party. It is excellent for us, because we see in common, both the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Government, that cooperating with the Advance Party will be a deadline for Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production throughout the country. Then I just want to stress that we have increased income opportunities every single year since we came into government. We've never had a better situation with regard to soil protection. We have a redispatch rate that's down on the halves target, which is exactly what the Bondevik government suggested should be a goal. We're already lying there. That's the first time in history since we started measuring it in 1976. In terms of the investment opportunities, which the Christian People's Party has also been involved in, we have improved them significantly, and we are dedicated to improving them further. I am busy working on improving the framework conditions for Norwegian agriculture. The government is committed to further working on it, both through revenues, through enhanced soil protection and by strengthening investment opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e354	Two follow-up questions are raised – first Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e357	Increased income is the main measure of increasing the recruitment of agriculture. The government determines the following in the message: ‘The government will therefore further develop agricultural incomes and welfare policies based on the agricultural policy pursued after 2005.’» So this is a larger income development for the farmers than for other groups. We thought the difference in income was going to close. But in the same chapter, the government writes the following: «The government will ensure that agricultural practitioners develop incomes in line with other groups.» [[...]] This can best be called double communication. Does the Council see that this can be confusing? What does the Minister of Agriculture actually mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e374	Let me repeat: there have never been more resources in Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production than we have been in the last few years since the red-greens came into government position. It's a difference of substance. It is a break in income opportunities that is significant in the favour of agriculture after we came into government. We have shown through practical measures that we have invested in Norwegian food production, in Norwegian agriculture. I'm not saying here that we're done, because there's still too much difference with other groups. There is a high demand for Norwegian farmers in other parts of Norwegian working life, so we need to improve income opportunities further. I believe that the agricultural and food reports presented give a very clear ambition to increase production, increase income opportunities and secure the resource base for the future. It is clear, and I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is also in favour of the setting – which I have been able to read for so short a time after the setting has been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e379	Torgeir Treldal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e382	Unfortunately, the new agricultural message presented by the government – Welcome to the table – has been delivered without bribery to Stortinget. There are very few measures and many words. I also record that the regulatory role of TINE and Nortura is almost unaffected, despite the fact that we have seen system errors with butter crisis and rib deficiency – we have been missing in the system. The system is not working. The last thing we see is a report in the Evening Post on 17 March, where TINE, who is the regulator and competitor of Synnøve Find, goes into the stores and removes the competitor's products and sends them the bill. Then Leif Forsell, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, says that TINE does not have the opportunity to act as market regulator in this case and that it shows that they have a lack of understanding of the regulatory role. My question to Breck is: Why does this not have any consequences for the regulator, when you break the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e391	When the representative, Treldal, says that there is an order for Norwegian agriculture without action, but with beautiful words, I want to demand both beautiful words and beautiful actions from the Progress Party, so that we get an agricultural product that reaches the objectives we have to ensure agriculture throughout the country and ensure increased food production. So to the regulator role: Yes, TINE hasn't been able to do his job completely lately. But it's not a system error, it's a bug that has the basis of the job TINE has done, and I think they're very aware of that, and it's taken up with TINE. So let me also stress that it has never been so clear in some agricultural and food reports that we are going to have market regulation, that we are going to have import protection, that we are going to have negotiating system that ensures that the industry itself has influence over the situation. It is in contrast to everything the Progress Party stands for in Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e398	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e401	I understand that you couldn't reconcile with the Christian People's Party when you've probably been more concerned with frightening the Christian People's Party with the Right and the Advance Party than agreeing on formulations that in the setting look like they could be in the vicinity of each other. It has probably not been a matter that has decided it, but a lack of will, and perhaps ideology, from the government parties. So Breck says in the answer to Hareide that practical action says more than beautiful words. I fully agree with that. When it comes to soil protection, it's not just about protecting the soil, it's also about using the soil better. There are a number of tax proposals that are quite obvious to increase the ability to invest and to improve the agronomy. Does Breck agree to go the tax path, for example: in relation to ditching and e.g. in the case of investment funds, is a good way to improve agronomy and thereby improve soil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e410	When the representative Fleet says that we've been more concerned with scaring the Christian People's Party with the Right and the Advance Party, I think the Christian People's Party itself knows best how to act, and understands how to deal with the two parties. Practical action is important, and we have, as I said in my previous answers, implemented a lot in Norwegian agricultural policy. We want even more. So the question is, can one then take tax measures, which are proposed by the Right in the vote? The vote was now taken yesterday afternoon, and we are going to have a debate on it after Easter – I look forward to going into that discussion then. At the same time, we have previous experience of the use of tax measures and we have experience of the use of tax measures today. So I don't reject any tools in the sense that we're going to work to ensure better soil protection, increased production, and thus make sure that we're able to achieve production across the country. But, as I said, to respond directly to the suggestions that the Right has come up with, I will not do here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e420	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e423	Not surprisingly, I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge, which I would first and foremost congratulate on being the second Council of State in history, which has such a large area of responsibility that everything is responsible for from the Kampen Kunstschildnehage «opi høgget» above me, SINTEF and the University of Tromsø to Rome's public high school. The last time we had a government council that had such a great responsibility was in 2007. Then there was a little too much, and a break in research was introduced to get through it. After realizing that it was stupid to have so much responsibility in one department, SV wrote in a press release that there is a need for a separate government council for this important political field – i.e. research and higher education. My question to the Council of State is: Does she think that she can take care of kindergartens, primary education, vocational schools, cultural schools, adult education, higher education, academic research, institutes and business in a satisfactory way at the same time? Or: Which of these areas is going to get a break under this Council of States?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e430	Then the President will also take the opportunity to welcome the State Council of Halvorsen to cooperate with the Stortinget also in the field of research and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e433	I've been here before, to say it like this. The answer to the question from the representative Skei Grande is yes, of course I believe it when I have assumed responsibility for something so incredibly important. I tend to say that this is not a sector, this is a perspective on how to build society in the future. Then there are some strengths to see it from research to kindergartens and the other way, with everything in between. We have now implemented the greatest welfare and knowledge reform in recent times, namely full child care coverage. We have quality challenges in that area, and I'm going to take care of that in a proper way in the future. I am happy to have the opportunity to be responsible for research and higher education, because I am absolutely sure that we can see this in a much closer context with other things we do in terms of training. Then I would like to point out that I have been a party leader in SV for 15 years, but now there are others who have taken over. I've been in the government's sub-committees for almost seven years, now there's someone else who's taken over. I have free capacity and a lot of work and energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e444	That's good, but that work capacity probably had the previous government council also available. He was neither subcommittee nor party leader, but had to introduce rest cutting in the important field of research. I do not underestimate the great commitment and great work of the Council of State in the field of kindergartens. My concern is about research and higher education. Head of the Research Association, Bjarne Hodne, has stated: ‘With the importance of research and higher education for the welfare development and value creation in Norway, it is necessary to make the field visible through a separate minister. The country can’t afford to focus less on it.’ He has received support from the Norwegian student organisation and a number of other actors in this field, who are now concerned. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree that research and higher education have a special impact on welfare development, but also on value creation in Norway, and that it needs special focus?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e456	I am, absolutely. Tora Aasland has made a formidable effort in terms of higher education, universities and research for the four and a half years she has had it as her responsibility. I'm going to go on in that job, which she's done, and bring it on. I have that perspective at the bottom – which I think is absolutely crucial: just seeing that all areas of society depend on high-quality and higher-quality research, otherwise we will not realise our ambitions in any area – not in foreign policy, not in education policy, not in transport policy, not in climate policy. It gives me a tremendous opportunity, now that we're going – I'm going right from here, about, to a recording conference on the new research message – to get it really and really on the agenda. It's a very great advantage to also be able to see all the parts of what's important to build the knowledge society, in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e465	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e468	As the representative Skei Grande had in mind, there are many challenges in research and higher education. I'm sure the State Council will hear more about later today at the recording conference she's going to attend. But I have a specific question: what challenge will the Council of State address first within this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e473	I am a little surprised at how high and dark the Left is in exactly this kind of challenge, because Norway has once in history had a minister who has been responsible for research and higher education alone, and it is in the four and a half years that Tora Aasland has been the Minister of Research and Higher Education. In all the other years, under all the governments of which the Left has been a part, there has been a government council for this whole area. There's also some advantages in seeing it in context. So that's the way I think there's two challenges -- now I've been working two days with responsibility for this whole area, so I want to have a little humble input -- one of which I was in the middle of it, that's to make sure that everyone who has ambitions in any area of society sees how dependent one is on good research, good quality of higher education and good recruitment to realize their plans. I think it's incredibly important that the entire College of Government owns its share of this. The second is that I believe that in some higher education institutions we have too poor implementation and too much non-response. It's a challenge I'd like to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e480	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e483	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State. Then I come to the question. The lack of engineering is a major challenge in both the private and public sectors, as the Progress Party also addresses at a seminar today. We have called the seminar Education for Value Creation. The lack of competent real-time professionals prevents the development and value creation. In fact, poor real-life education in primary schools has a connection with the lack of engineers in today’s and future Norway. Now it's a government council that's going to be responsible for everything from first-class to doctorate and research. The Progress Party therefore hopes for a more comprehensive and coherent priority, now that it has all been grouped together by a State Council. The question is: does the Council of State wish to make a strong commitment to the real subjects, and will it give priority to setting up more places of study in the field of engineering in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e491	Before I answer that, I want to underline one thing, and that is that the real growth in research over the years from 2005 until now has been 27 pst. So when you describe this as an eternal vermin, you're -- what to say -- out on the ground, but maybe without an ax. So to Thorsen, it's a very important perspective, that the challenges we now face in real science don't start in higher education. They start a lot earlier. There are many possibilities ranging from kindergarten to strengthening the real subjects, among other things. Mathematics. It's bad – really quite shockingly bad. It's like that. 25 pst. By the students who leave high school, they have 1 and 2 in mathematics. One of six high school students in mathematics. These are not problems that start there either. We simply need to upgrade basic skills in accounting and mathematics from kindergarten to out. I'm glad to catch up to that, because here we still have a great job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e498	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e501	Right-wing wants to have preliminary confidence in the capacity of the Council of State and expects to have assessed it. But she has a lot to prove, because after almost seven years of red-green government, we see that research has not come out particularly well. But here's the first chance. A study carried out by Technopolis for the Department, which was published a few days ago, shows that the principal of the University of Oslo is right when he points out in today's Business today that we need to be better at ensuring that we participate in international research programmes. The growth in what we pay for EU research programmes is far greater than the growth in what we are able to absorb. What action will the Council of State take to professionalise guidance for those wishing to participate in EU-funded projects, in order to increase the proportion of the EU framework of Norwegian research communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e508	You can't label a sector that has had 27 pst. real growth, which loses in budgetary struggles. It just doesn't matter! It doesn't work for right-wing people; it doesn't work for anyone else either. So let's just not start with the kind of sloppy starting point that someone's trying to invoke, a kind of unruly victim role, because it doesn't deserve Norwegian research. Then it is right that we have ordered this report, on the basis that we are now going to discuss what the 8th Framework Programme in the EU and Horizon 2020 will look like, and in what way Norway might follow up and associate with it. It is then a crossroads for us that we contribute to the 7th Framework Programme with approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr a year, but the value of what we get back is approximately. 70 pst. of what we contribute. It's too bad. That means that we are largely sponsoring the research of other countries. Some cooperation should be here, but we have to have the ambition that we'll get a lot more for that cooperation. So what the representative here is dealing with is an important part of that discussion, in the follow-up to the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e517	Dagrun Eriksen - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e520	It's probably also that the Willoch government had shared ministerial responsibility between higher education and school, so it's probably happened before. But I don't think what's going on is whether you have one or two. What I think has been one of the most effective in the field of research was the introduction of the Research Fund at that time. In that case, priority was given to research, and there was a stepping-up plan and a set target to achieve the OECD target of 3 pst. Both things have canceled this government. Now the Council of State is going to take up and have another field, and we know that she has said how important research is. We spend relatively least of the Nordic countries on research today. My simple question to the government is: Do you now want an obliging escalation plan, so that we reach the OECD target of 3 p.m., so that we get a drive and are no longer in jumbo space in the Nordic region when it comes to research?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e527	If I've forgotten a councillor from the Willoch era, I'm sorry, of course. However, in recent years there has been no separate minister of research and higher education. Then I think the opposition should also do a little better Norwegian advertising. We have the highest level of public funds related to research per capita among OECD countries. It's not a valley in this area; it's an area that's had 27 pst. real growth. So, of course, I want all the ambitions to make sure that we still have real growth, and that this area is increasing. But I believe that the debate on the quality and priority of research is also a very important debate, because we are likely to have tighter budgetary frameworks in the future than we have had at present. We have a completely different economic situation than the countries around us, we have an aging wave going on. This means that research must prove how vital it is for society as a whole. That's why the focus on quality is also very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e536	This leads us to the next – and last – main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e539	The question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food and concerns organic production, to which the Right is very positive. We believe that there is a production that can be very profitable. There is demand in markets that pays well. But we have a concern. A report from the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research shows that the total first-hand value of organic production is 400 million. kr. That's about. 1.5 pst. of total production here in the country. This survey also shows that public resource use in order to generate these 400 million. Another $400 million. kr. At the same time, we know that of these 400 million. kr the organic product is sold for only 200 million. So it's just going to be half. So we know from the agricultural notice that you're going up to 15 pst. as regards the placing on the market of organic products. So that means a time-lapse from today. We're at 1.5 pst. That's 400 million. kr. We're going up to 15 pst. That means we're going to have a first-hand value of 4 billion. kr in organic production in eight years. Then my question becomes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food: when he already spends as much on public resources as we have at first hand, what will this look like in eight years' time? How is he going to finance these 4 billion? on the budgets in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e550	I am pleased that the Right stresses that they are concerned with organic production. It's important that we do something to stimulate it in the future. The study of the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research emphasises that it is used approx. 369 million. kr on organic production. It is a compilation – I want to underline it – of direct support for organic farmers, with actions that go both to development and to research and education. So you can't look at the means that they go exclusively to organic production -- they don't, they go to administration as well. NILF stresses – I checked it out – that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the numbers. The effects on conventional production by these means have not been assessed, inter alia: The overall objective is that agriculture is environmentally friendly. The development of organic farming methods provides knowledge and technology that can be used throughout agriculture. It's also an effect. The market for organic food, on which also the representative Fleet is in, is booming. In 2008, just after I was appointed Minister of Agriculture and Food, I received letters from the managers of all the food chains that organic production had to be increased in Norway. So it didn't go that long. The financial crisis came, and the market fell dramatically. What is happening now is that the turnover of organic products has increased by 10 pst. from 2002 to 2011, according to a report submitted by the State Agriculture Administration last week. The total sales were then more than 1 billion. kr. Increased market activity and increased competition in the food chain have recently appeared. The target, set at 15 p.m., has been set so that fluctuations in the market will not undermine long-term investment. It takes time to convert to organic production and develop an organic range adapted to the daily food trade. It's an ambition that we should be able to keep working on it, even though it's a very ambitious goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e563	I am surprised that the Council of State is using speaking time here in the Stortingen to explain to the NILF's own reports. With regard to this study carried out by the SLF, that turnover is increasing, the figures, when seen over a period of 3 to 4 years, show that, at best, the turnover of organic products is in stable side rental. But I'm going to take another concern and a calculation example with the Council of State. To translate what we're doing now, 4 pst., almost 5 pst., of the areas of organic production are used to produce 1.5 pst. of the first hand value. Then I can't do it any other way than when we're going to have the ten in first hand value, we also have to have it -- or something close to it -- when it comes to the areas. Is this in line with the ambitious targets for the use of land and increased agricultural production contained in the notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e571	Let me stress that the investment in organic production is very ambitious. We haven't come as far as we want, but we want to keep working to achieve these goals. It is also important to stress that the emphasis on organic production has a side-effect on conventional production. It has to do with knowledge of reduced use of sprays and production environmental arrangements. So the ambition is very clear: we want to get there. So I'm not explaining the numbers, I'm just stressing that there's a lot of uncertainty about what the NILF has presented. So at the same time, what I'm saying is, what's happened after the NILF gave its numbers, is that the sales of organic products have increased by 10 pst. from 2010 to 2011 — after a major drop after the financial crisis. I see opportunities for increased production. So to the question of this will go beyond the production potential in other areas – which is the last question from the Fleet. I don't think so. I think we're going to do well both to work to increase organic production and at the same time to meet the ambitions to increase Norwegian food production conventionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e580	There are three follow-up questions – first Frank Bakke-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e583	From the agricultural message chapter 1.5.1, Competitive value chains and robust units, I quote: ‘Increased value creation is important to make production units in the agricultural industries more robust. This should be done both by developing more competitive and profitable volume production and by creating a broader income base by investing in the production of goods and services based on the full range of resources in agriculture.» I myself would like to add that the reputation and sustainability of Norwegian food production is important for the competitiveness of agriculture. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that modern Norwegian agricultural production, carried out in line with Norwegian legislation, which follows recommendations from research and guidance services, generally appears less sustainable than organic farming carried out in line with the Ecology Regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e595	I just want to answer very clearly that I believe that modern Norwegian production takes place according to the legislation. It is sound, it is good, and it is at a high level compared to all the countries we compare with. So there's no problem. In terms of organic production, we have an ambition to increase that area. It's a growing market. In Denmark, which we often compare with, the turnover of organic products is significantly higher than in Norway. It signals that it is possible to increase value creation based on organic production also in Norway. I want to continue working to meet the objective of organic production. I think it offers market opportunities for Norwegian agriculture in the future. So at the same time, I want to make sure that the knowledge of organic production is also transferred to conventional production, so that we get a win-win situation. That's the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e602	Per Roar Bredvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e605	The development of organic farming and the placing on the market of organic agricultural products is an agricultural policy area, according to the government itself. It is a fact that less food is produced on areas with organic production than on corresponding areas where it is – let's call it – normal production. It also turns out that consumers are not so much concerned about whether the food is organic or normally produced when filling the shopping basket. With the need for increased food production in the world, the Council of State and the Red-Green Government really believe that it is right to use such a large area for organic production – and not only that, but also to increase this area considerably in the coming years, from today's level to 15 pst. output by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e614	Let me first say that I do not perceive a distinction between so-called normal production and organic production. I perceive that both organic production and conventional production are normal. So we have different goals for it, which we've also discussed before. Ambition at 15 p.m. organic production is an ambitious objective. At the same time, of course, we have to deal with the market, so that we also produce what the market wants. A few years ago – as I said in my previous answer – the Norwegian food industry asked that we have to invest more in organic production. We did it. Then came the financial crisis, and then the demand dropped. Now demand takes itself up again. I am committed to achieving the objectives we have for organic production, exploiting the opportunities in the market, and at the same time increasing production in other areas. I think it is possible to have a win-win situation, as I said before, and in that way make sure that we increase Norwegian food production overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e621	The organic production target is referred to as 15 pst. by 2020. In 2010, organic products were sold for 1.2 billion. kr, only 1.5 pst. by the placing on the market of foodstuffs. The turnover of organic products must therefore be doubled in eight years if we are to achieve these objectives. At the same time, we know that the consumption of organic food is three times that in Sweden and six times that in Denmark. Active policies and support for concrete actions to achieve these objectives are needed. In the agricultural notification, there are few or no examples of such measures. My question to the Council of State is: What is the reason why Norway is so outlawed compared to our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e630	Had I been able to answer that precisely, we would probably have solved those challenges of achieving the objectives of organic production. It is true, as Andersen Eide says, that the turnover of organic products in Sweden and Denmark is significantly higher than that in Norway. It has also been the starting point for us to think it is possible to increase Norwegian demand and Norwegian production of organic products. We have a very good standard of what we call conventional production, and I believe in a way that we have to work in the market to increase ecological demand and thus achieve the goals. The market will be crucial, and here it will be the Norwegian consumer who decides how production will be composed in the future. My ambition is to achieve the goal of 15 pst. I think it's going to be hard to achieve it by 2020 – I have to admit – but still that is the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e639	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e655	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘A recently published report on the mathematics skills of Norwegian general teacher students shows alarming failures in their mathematics skills. This implies that many mathematics teachers in Norwegian school have a weak professional base in one of the school's core subjects. Billing is one of five basic skills. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian students meet teachers with the necessary qualifications in the field of mathematics?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e669	I fully agree that the results of the international TEDS study on mathematics are discouraging. The study suggests that the teacher students do not have the professional and didactic skills needed by the school, and in particular this applies to the upper secondary school. In childhood, the results are a little bit better. The government was aware, before the TEDS survey was carried out in 2008, that it was necessary to change teacher training — and we have done so. From 2010, teacher training was replaced by two new primary school teachers. In primary school teacher training from 1 to 7. Steps are 30 study points in mathematics mandatory with the possibility of further immersion. In primary teacher education for 5 to 10. Steps are only compulsory in the field of education and learning. That's why I'm very interested in following the academic choices of the students carefully, and preliminary figures indicate that many students choose to deepen in mathematics. With the two specialised primary school teachers, we have already addressed several of the challenges identified by the study. In addition, the Ministry is in the process of renewing teacher training for 8–13. steps. The TEDS results will be included in this work. It is not enough to create a new framework for education if nothing happens with the professional and didactic content. I would therefore like the follow-up group for the new primary school teacher training to carefully assess the development of mathematics in order to identify any weaknesses. Professional environments in teacher training are primarily responsible for ensuring high quality education and it is therefore appropriate to consider adjusting their own offerings. This may, for example: is under the authority of the Board of Universities and Universities, and I will deal with this with the Board of Governors. If there is any doubt about the national level of mathematics, this is a matter that the National Quality Education Body (NOCUT) should consider in more detail. It is not enough just to improve teacher training. Teachers who are already doing an important job in school need to be given the opportunity to develop their skills further. In the national continuing education strategy, mathematics is a priority, and it is a pleasure that the subject has a good search. The Ministry has also introduced requirements for at least 60 credits in mathematics to be added to teach in the field of youth. Furthermore, the Ministry will follow up consultation on changes to the Training Act in order to introduce requirements on relevant professional competence for individual subjects. In that case, this will contribute to the fact that teachers who have a deeper understanding of mathematics in the disciplines are actually assigned to teach mathematics. Another measure to strengthen access to highly skilled teachers is the system of depreciation of student loans for higher education students in mathematics. In addition, I want school and teacher education to use the resources of the National Center for Mathematics to a greater extent. What the teachers have on the basis of, of course, is related to how the entire school works in terms of mathematics and real science.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e686	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it's incredibly important that even if you're changing teacher training, it's also important to monitor the results of those students who're in education, in relation to what they're coming out with at the end. I do not think we can underestimate the importance of good teachers also being crucial if we are to overcome the trend we are seeing, that very many students both in high school and in high school have such weak results in the subject that it is only as far as they stand. If we agree that mathematics is very important for recruitment to many types of education that society needs a lot in the future, then it is very important to put the emphasis on the quality of teachers. My question to the Council of State is then: Do you want to give further priority to/enforce the mathematical knowledge of the means of further training that are put at the disposal of Norwegian teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e693	We are in these days where teachers have applied for further training, the principals have sent it on and the municipalities give priority. I'm closely monitoring how the teachers divide in relation to the different subjects, and it's of course also relevant to see if the capacity of mathematics is good enough. But I don't think we should underestimate what kind of challenge we have in mathematics and real science. It is even bigger than what I was aware of before I entered the Department of Knowledge. These are basic skills from elementary school and throughout the education cycle. We're a people of fear of math. I meet a lot of adults where the roller coaster goes down at the moment you start talking about math and real science, and there are some attitudes to real science that we also have to bring with us when we make sure that everyone in every segment gets better competence. We have a strategy for real-time vocational training, we have renewed this strategy for real-time vocational training, and I have to make sure that we get further pressure on it. It is also part of the follow-up to the Youth Level Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e702	I share the Council's description that we have difficult challenges related to mathematics. But I want the government council to dwell on why it's more important that the math teacher has a lot of professional depression when it comes to the youth class than that the math teacher has a lot of professional depression when you start the initial training. Right is very critical that you're more concerned about meeting a good 8th grade teacher, because if the famous roller coaster has gone down, as the Council of State describes, in grade 3, 4 or 5, it might be done so much damage that it's too late to put up with a good math dress when you get to grade 8, 9, or 10. What will the government and the government do to ensure that we have top competent math teachers from the first grade?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e709	So far, we've assessed it so that when all teachers who teach from 1 to 7 steps are going to have 30 weights in mathematics, you have a professional starting point for teaching good at these steps. We may be able to discuss whether this should be reconsidered at a later stage. The big challenge we have in mathematics is a higher level of basic skills all the way – absolutely all the way – but not least that we are able to keep up the interest in mathematics through our youth. Then we know that we have significant challenges, and that's also part of the work we're doing now in that mathematics is part of the initiative after the youth class announcement. We need to get a more practical and varied teaching of mathematics. It actually involves hours of talks what we should do in this area. It concerns everything from kindergarten to professors and international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e722	‘I am aware that several taxpayers should have been transferred to the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs (SFU) in the event of a machine error in the tax haven in 2010. For these taxpayers, there have been problems with issuing tax cards and thus too high tax rates that make less payments. In 2012, it is still difficult to correct this error. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e729	I am aware that the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs – SFU – changed its IT solution for printing tax cards in 2010. The Tax Directorate has indicated that there were some problems with start-up in this respect. The introduction of the new IT solution resulted in several taxpayers being reported with a non-resident employer and thus automatically added to the SFU’s mandate. The tax payers concerned were then charged tax credit cards from SFU with excessive tax deductions. This resulted in a drawing table requiring tax deductions for 12 months instead of an ordinary drawing table calculated from a tax deduction of 10,5 months. I have been informed by the Tax Directorate that the error was corrected immediately after it was discovered. At the same time, manual procedures were put in place to ensure that proper tax cards are printed out. The experience is that the problem now arises only exceptionally. However, if there are still taxpayers who think they are getting the wrong tax card, they will be corrected by contacting their tax office.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e736	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. We all know that errors can happen – it's completely human – and it happens in our big systems as well. So sometimes it hits people hard or becomes inappropriate for them. My information is that there are still some – these are cases from my home country, Telemark – that have problems getting the right tax card and therefore, among other things. the appropriate percentage by which to move. There is one who has contacted the undersigned and told me that because of this error he has had too much traction on his pension until 2010 and has had problems getting it fixed. But I am pleased that the Minister of Finance makes it clear that this should, of course, be corrected, for the benefit of those who have been affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e743	Yes, we experience from time to time that even at the age of computer technology, errors may occur. But as I said in my main response, this will be corrected if he/she addresses his/her tax office.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e748	Representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to follow-up question No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e751	It's not going to happen, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e760	‘The government authorises oil money use outside the rule of action if it can be defined as financial position, where the expected return is at least equivalent to alternative positions. This is the reason why state companies receive oil money in addition to what can be used in the State budget. The average rate of return of the oil fund in the last few years has been approx. 2.5 pst. Will the government ensure that infrastructure projects with assumed socio-economic profitability exceed the average yield of the oil fund as a financial investment?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e767	Over time, several governments and magnifications have built up a good system for managing their oil revenues. State pension funds and the rule of action are carriers in this system. The action rule provides a framework for the development of the balance sheet of the State budget, excluding revenue and expenditure relating to oil activities. In order to fulfil its objective, State expenditure may not be excluded from the budget. This also applies to expenditure on socio-economical purposes such as: education, research, health and infrastructure. The country's financial investments, including the injection of equity or the purchase of shares, are not current expenditure but a repositioning of property items. Such asset repos are described as a loan transaction in the State budget. In order for a capital contribution or the like to be regarded as a financial investment, the location must provide an expected return for the country which is at least equal to the return on alternative placements. Thus, financial investment will generate revenue from the State budget. These revenues could in future be used for important purposes such as education, research, health and transport. The country's borrowing transactions are shown in the national accounts for each year. We live in Norway, and there is a relatively thin traffic base in many parts of the country. The possibilities for user financing of infrastructure such as road and rail are therefore limited. Nor does such investment yield a return that can be recorded as revenue on the State budget. On the contrary, significant government appropriations will often be needed in practice to implement road and rail projects, even when the projects are socio-economically viable. These expenditure is included in the budget and must be prioritised within the framework of the rules of action. Within this framework, the government has implemented a strong uplift in road and rail investment. Dedicated governments have stressed that expenditure financed by government appropriations is to be shown in the budget. It makes it easier to keep public finances in order. The current crisis in several countries in Europe shows how important it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e780	I think the Minister of Finance missed an important premise on my part, namely that it was going to be socio-economically profitable places. Thus, very much of the contribution to the Minister of Finance was really quite irrelevant. Nor does the Minister of Finance dare mention that Petoro can use between 20 and 25 billion. DKK of oil revenue per year. It's real investment, not financial investments. Tens of billions are spent on investing in Statkraft, DNB shares, Aker shares, and even SAS shares can buy outside the rule of action without anyone claiming that the SAS share has been a good financial position in recent years. The question then is, when it is possible to invest funds in infrastructure in Norway that are socio-economically profitable, which provides a return in addition to that which would have been made to invest in the oil fund, should not one then consider whether the Nordics and the next generation are more deserving of making socially profitable investments in infrastructure in Norway rather than buying shares in airlines, which are losing their way over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e785	I refer to my answer in terms of the difference between what we call financial placements, capital contributions, etc., and what is expenditure on the expenditure side of the government budget. We are dealing with the allocation regulations adopted by the Stortinget in 2005, by a broad majority. The party of progress had a small comment on the concept of ‘estimation appropriations’, but promised to come back to different aspects of this on different occasions. I see that there's some of this happening right now. But we have no plans to change today's budgetary system to facilitate a new way of financing state-owned investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e790	In the East German broadcast on the NRK yesterday, a report was presented by the municipality of Asker. It estimates that costs for freight transport only, on the Oslo-Asker corridor on E18, cost 2 billion. kr in the year in line. In addition, there are costs for people who are on their way to and from work, etc. So it's a significant cost that society has because you haven't built an infrastructure that's good enough. Cutting costs is often as interesting as increasing revenue. Here, therefore, it is possible to cut expenditure substantially by redeploying some of the oil resources in infrastructure in Norway. Does the Council see that it can actually be profitable for the oil fund, our oil money, cutting costs for business and for private households, and that it can be an interesting use of our oil money as just buying shares in Norwegian or foreign companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e795	Yes, it is just as good to cut a dollar in expenditure as to increase revenue by a penny, at least for budgetary balance, and to invest in measures that can reduce the cost to society, both public and private, is an important part of government policy. That is also why during this period we have record appropriations in terms of transport, in terms of investment in infrastructure, not least in the area we are now. So it's about -- and that's what's really the main question -- the ability to prioritize within the 1000 billions. kr that one spends annually in the State budget for different purposes. So this whole discussion is really about priorities in the state budget, and I think over time it won't be cheaper if one in year 1 or year 2 tries to finance important investments outside the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e804	The question is as follows: «Ak sells its 50 pst. the Aker Clean Carbon share, ACC, for 0 SEK through a transaction in which Aker is on a possible side-by-side but is exempt from any new financing obligations. The transaction appears to be complex and with an unknown final result, inter alia: for the country that indirectly owns the ACC. What independent assessments of the transaction has the Ministry of Industry and Trade been made by the Ministry of Industry and Trade as to what this could mean for the State’s indirect investment in the ACC through Aker Solutions and direct investment in Aker Kværner Holding A/S?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e813	Aker Solutions has decided to increase its ownership of Aker Clean Carbon to 100 pst. by taking over the 50 pst share of Aker Capital AS. Aker Capital is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aker ASA. Aker Clean Carbon has 30 employees and was established in 2007 to commercialise carbon capture technology. Aker Solutions does not pay anything for the shares upon acquisition, and there is agreement between the parties on the sharing of both up and downsides, if any. If in the next 10 years there will be a profit from licence agreements in Aker Clean Carbon, the buyer will pay the seller 45 pst. of the surplus, up to a ceiling. At the same time, Aker continues its financial obligations relating to Aker Clean Carbon's activities at a technology centre at Mongstad. Furthermore, Aker Clean Carbon has only minor obligations. There are several independent assessments of this transaction. Firstly, Aker Solutions has conducted an independent due diligence review of Aker Clean Carbon. Secondly, there is an independent so-called fairness opinion on the terms of the transaction. This concludes that the transaction appears fair. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is satisfied that this assessment can be considered as sufficiently independent. Thirdly, both Aker Kværner Holding, where the State is a shareholder, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, have collected their own independent legal advice. In my opinion, this provides sufficient assurance that the State, as shareholder of Aker Kværner Holding, does not have the basis to oppose this transaction and that it has been subject to proper treatment in Aker Kværner Holding and in line with the Aker State Agreement at NHD.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e826	I thank you for your answer. Although I can't hear where these different assessments come from, it's interesting to hear that they're made. Now, a good part of the transactions that are often made between the Aker system and the different companies – sometimes in the state – often have a little bit of a half way ahead, if you say so in a slightly simple way. They're not final, because there's always something left to do since, and that increases the complexity for us who's outside, in the sense that we're most concerned about how the state's money is handled. Does the Council agree that there is a tendency for many such operations and that it may cost the State some extra that these assessments need to be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e835	It is not uncommon in business that you have contracts that go over many years, and cuts and covers are shared. It also makes it easier, really, to carry out these transactions, because that means you don't have to have the whole phase of the transaction. The gains — if any, losses — contained in the transaction are shared. It is also true that there are no large costs for the State as an actor in this. It is the company itself that provides «due diligence» and other studies. What we've been up to is the legal advice. We're very concerned that these transactions, which can be interpreted as related, are done in a good way. It's always a challenge in business when you own something together and buy or sell to the person you own with, to a company that has a different ownership. Therefore, we are very aware of this, both in valuation or fairness assessments and in legal assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e842	I am very pleased with the last answer, which is that you are particularly attentive. Because there's a history in the collaboration between these very same people, if you're going to call it that. I think it's important to have more than special attention to this type of transaction. We had episodes that were unfortunate for the political side of this. I see it as reassuring that the Council of State and the Department now have special attention to it. If in his last answer he can also say that he will continue with it – I don't think this is the last transaction that comes into this segment; it seems that the imagination is inexhaustible, perhaps also the needs, for that matter – then I would be happy for such confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e847	I can confirm that. We're going to pay attention, not only to our ownership of Aker Kværner Holding, but also to other companies, both in terms of good value and legal value. This is one of the reasons why, in the ownership message last year, we announced that we should strengthen ownership management strongly. We do that in 2012, and my ambition is to keep doing that in 2013. But we also need to take some assessments externally, and we also need to do that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e856	The question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade is as follows: ‘The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade shall have received an interim report from Veritas on 4 October 2011 pointing out a number of weaknesses at Altinn. What measures have been taken as a result of the interim report, and what action does the Council of State see the need to implement once the final report has been delivered and after the experience with the closure of Altinn?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e865	The preliminary report of Norske Veritas, DNV, was submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in October 2011. Immediately following the request of the department of Brønnøsund to follow up and evaluate the evaluations by the DNV of the Altinn II platform and to carry out a preliminary assessment of possible actions. The Ministry of Economic Affairs received it in December 2011. When the declaration was published on 22 March 2011, the solution went down due to various problems. The Brønnøsund registries informed that the problem was located in three locations: the login solution, the portal servers in the Altinn II part of the solution and the database. The problem was related to parallel driving between Altinn I and Altinn II. The self-declaration still goes to the Altinn I. An evaluation of the Altinn II platform was decided and, following a tendering round, the contract was awarded to DNV on 21 June 2011. So what is sometimes referred to in the media as the ‘secret report’ was a report that we had ordered ourselves, and it was also well known that it was a great offer. Of the measures specified in the monitoring of Brønnøsund’s 2012 registers, some have already been implemented, some have started but have not been completed and some measures have not yet been initiated. The measures implemented are those that were possible in the short term but also necessary for information on what needs to be done in the longer term. It has been, among other things: analysing bottlenecks, replacing and updating hardware and establishing detailed guidelines for good services. In addition, there is a need to be able to perform upgrades to the solution without closing the system. It will enhance the user-friendliness and quality of testing if Altin can operate 24 hours a day throughout the year, despite major upgrades. We work closely with the Brønnøsund registers to ensure that the Altinn solution is good enough and provides the service you expect and not least operational safety. It now seems that the problems we had in 2012 are other than those we had in 2011, and not any problems that it was easy to read from the DNV report. But, of course, it should not happen that personal data is being diverted. We will also work closely in the future with both the Altin strategy and the organisation and quality assurance of the Altin system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e880	I thank you for your answer. It's good to hear that at least the challenges are working intensely, because it's important that Altin works. It's probably 30 public agencies that are connected to the system, and 120 services, so it says a little bit about the loss society has when it doesn't work. The fact that you have wanted things on offer can be a strength these days. However, I am not very reassured by the answer, for the Veritas report that was available, the closest thing to it is to be seen as a slaughter of the whole system. There are questions about the shortcomings of the platform itself, and there are also questions about the competences of those developing it. It may seem that it puts a lot of emphasis on the public that is both developing and ordering this type of IT services. So I want to ask you if the Council of State has taken some overall consideration of the challenges facing the development of these types of systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e889	Firstly, it is important to take into account that in the introduction to the Veritas report, as far as I remember, the Norwegian Veritas says that the report ‘supports the view that the ALTINN II solution is a central contribution to achieving national IT ambition’ and that the ALTINN II programme has succeeded in delivering a large and complex system. So the overall picture is actually quite positive in the report that Veritas has presented. But then there are a number of challenges, a number of risks of congestion, robustness and, in particular, testing regimes that need to be improved, as well as the high degree of organisational complexity. One of the things we did before Altin went down this last week was, among other things, putting an end to the introduction of new things into the platform, just to get an adequate solution, adequate safety and testing systems, etc. before we charge the system with new services. As I said, we also asked the Brønn Island Health Registers to look at what measures could be taken quickly — and the Brønn Island Health Registers did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e896	I think it's a very big challenge the Council of State is facing, because the Veritas report reveals so many weaknesses, even in relation to the test regime, that if it had been private operators who had tried the same thing, you would hardly have released such a solution on the market. It also gives some light to the fact that you started with a completely different purpose than what it has become; it has become much more extensive. The question is whether it is possible to achieve at all within a reasonable cost framework; 1 billion has been used. NOK already. We have experience from other sectors that suggest that public spending a great deal of money before reaching targets. So it's going to be exciting to follow up on the state council and the development of Altin further. It's absolutely central to business and many functions in society to get this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e905	First of all, with private actors. We must remember that it is private actors who deliver these solutions. It is not primarily people in Brønnøysund or in Altinn who sit and make the technical systems, because we buy them from other suppliers – large, reputable companies. And then we're also going to take with us that very much works. In these days, ALTIN is up and going again, and many companies use it for VAT and many other things. These are important services for businesses, saving society for millions of dollars. It may be that we are politicians – who have been extra eager to simplify business, get electronic reporting and get everything in one place – who have done so much work so quickly. But I think the benefit of doing that is great, and that we are therefore going to try to combine a high rate of phase-in of the type of services with good operational safety and personal safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e918	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for a nice dinner yesterday! Then to the policy: ‘Intermediate roads due to bad weather are something we can experience in almost all of Norway. In Finland, too, this can at times be a major challenge. Road users often find that when they arrive at toll stations such as at Leirbotnvatten at E6 over Sennaland, there is very little information. Is it possible to provide an information service in several languages at the time of the bombs, so that road users are informed of any column, column times, length of road closure and when open traffic is expected?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e927	The State Road Service informs about closures and column running in the form of roadside messages that are distributed via the Internet, Internet solution for mobile phones, automatic and manual response service on telephone number 175 and radio. In addition, information is provided via permanent and variable signs and from bridge crews on the routes in question. Road messages contain information on how long the route will be blocked, when it can be expected to be opened, and on the availability and availability of the information with a reasonable level of security. The state Road Service is currently setting up roadside services, which are currently only available in Norwegian, so that they can be distributed through various services and navigation systems in the desired language. Information on fixed column times in Finnmark is available at vägvesen.no. The state road authority is aware that the information provided by those who have arrived at the bombs can be improved, and therefore assesses several measures. Among other things, it is assessed to publish up-to-date departure time information for the next column, which is available via mobile phones of 175.no, and SMS notifications for drivers with up-to-date information on departure times for columns based on a subscription system. It is also assessed to establish electronic signs by bombs. This will allow you to show your next departure time. Enhanced use of bombers on several high-mountain crossings is also considered during periods when traffic congestion and weather conditions may lead to long waiting times. When considering such new measures, you need to find the right organisation to provide the information and to look at the costs and benefits to road users of the various weather routes. To then answer the question briefly, or give a summary: There are constant improvements. It's also useful with the pointers that Fredriksen comes with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e946	I thank you for your answer. Three weeks ago, I was on a traffic inspection in the Alta region. We had a lot of people's meetings. What came out at every public meeting was precisely the need for information at the bomb. You will experience a situation where there are hundreds of meters of cars. There is no column time information, when it may start, and when it is open, free movement. People stay there. I guess it's not like every person in a column like this should call 175. We also know – as far as tourism is concerned – that winter tourism in Finnmark has become a commitment. It would be very nice if tourists could also get information in several languages. I hope that the Council of State is as impatient in this matter as she claims to be in others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e957	I can confirm that I am impatient – even in this field – that I want an improvement, and that I am happy with the measures that have already been implemented, and those that are now being assessed. So if there are several hundred cars – if I understood it correctly – or several hundred meters of cars in a column, it is imperative to reach everyone with information. In this case, you can use the phone as an alternative. But I'm taking everything Fredriksen has said here, precisely because I'm busy with improvement – also improvement when it comes to language – and I'm happy with the assessments they're doing there right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e966	What's special about this way is that it's the only connection between Alta and Hammerfest. In fact, Hammerfest is the location of our Western hospital. As long as you haven't got a coastal road in place, this is the only connection you have between the two cities. Clearly, it should not – as I see it – be a very major technological challenge to set up an information service that meets the needs of the population in today's situation. It is felt that many, many drivers are in line without knowing whether a column is going, when the column goes, or when the road may open. It's quite unsustainable, because closed roads can be everyday in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e973	Let me underline: I have the greatest understanding for all drivers who are in line because of bad weather, especially when you don't know what happens next. Information about fixed column times is available on the Internet site. The state Roads Agency is about to publish the Roads Information so that they can be distributed in the preferred language, or they are concerned with improving the information of those who have come as far as the bombs are concerned. I would like to look at proposals beyond what is mentioned so far from the representative Fredriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e982	‘A person from Eastfold has for three years tried to approve four American trucks. One of the trucks has a chassis number that is the number of a car already authorised, i.e. the simultaneous construction of trucks. The reason why Statens vägvesen will not now approve the trucks is that the documentation is in the wrong language, English, because German has been accepted. Will the Council of State clean up this mess?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e989	In the manufacture of a vehicle for approval in Norway, proof shall be provided that the requirements of the ‘technical prescriptions and approval requirements for vehicles, parts and appliances’, i.e. the driving instructions, have been fulfilled. These requirements are mainly based on requirements of the EU Directive and ECE Regulation. The documentation submitted shall be in a language which is understandable to the inspectors of the State Road Administration. In the driving regulations § 6-11 nr. 6 it says that if it is not in Norwegian, Danish or Swedish, documentation may be required to be translated into Norwegian. Nevertheless, it is clear that evidence in both English and German should normally be accepted, provided that the content of the dossier can be used as a basis for the approval of the vehicle in question. The decision will in any case be whether it can be demonstrated that the vehicle complies with the technical requirements applicable to the category of vehicle concerned. The documentation must be linked to the vehicle by means of a VIN and the information contained in the documentation must relate to the vehicle in question. I would also point out that documentation sent on standardised templates in line with that of the EEA territory can be relied on by approval – irrespective of language. The Road Directorate of the State Road Agency is not aware of the type of vehicle this specific case applies. They have not received a complaint against any refusal of approval, as stated, that the documentation is in the wrong language. I must therefore ask for an understanding that I cannot go into individual elements of this matter, but stick to the current legislation on a general basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1000	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. At least I have the discount here, and it's from February 10. I'll give it to the council afterwards. But you can wonder if it's Light Hill's fight against American states and the United States that's why you're so skeptical about this, because these are American trucks that run both in winter driving and are well-known to drive on that we have in Norway. So here's documentation, and a lot of this is supplementary documentation. In addition, a car has already been approved. It has the same chassis number, with the exception of one number, because the only car that has not been approved was behind the one that has been approved. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is that how we're going to deal with bureaucracy – demand documentation and get issues that come in line – despite the fact that cars are approved with exactly the same documentation, and actually with less documentation? I hope that the Council of State can go into this and look at how you are doing in the State Road Service to make trouble for people, instead of trying to help people to get their cars approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1009	The state road authority's foundation should be to help people, to educate people and to facilitate the orderly treatment of individual matters. It is also the case that the principle of non-discrimination weighs heavily in the law of administration. It shall be equivalent to practice. Discrimination is not allowed without there being any factual grounds for doing so. Nevertheless, individual approval of a particular vehicle does not necessarily mean that other corresponding vehicle can be approved without satisfactory documentation. So this is how, I understand, Hoksrud is sitting here with the entire correspondence and the basis. I don't do that at this point. But when it is handed over, of course, the Road Directorate should be asked to go into this matter more thoroughly. So I notice that there is a formal right to complain.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1016	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and for the fact that she will also look into the matter. I'm very happy about that. I'm recording that the Council of State is very clear that the State Road Administration and those who work on this should actually be there to help people. Then I would like to take the council to meet some of the people who have met some of the people who are at the traffic stations. This definitely does not apply to all of them. There's a lot of people there who really want to help people, but it's actually also a part that's just trying to put screws in the wheels of people trying to get a car registered. Of course, it is about non-discrimination, but I cannot understand – and I will challenge the Council of State on it – how to use cars that are completely identical, requiring one type of documentation for one, but a completely different type of documentation for the other, despite the fact that the cars have been behind each other on the assembly line when they were built. Here I have four pictures that I'm going to leave to the Council of State. There are three errors here. So I hope that the Council of State will take care to clean up the three errors, because here are the three that are not registered, plus another one. Then the person who's registered is here, and then the government can see that they're completely identical cars. I hope she will clean up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1025	Once again, I just have to ask for an understanding that at this point I cannot go into the individual cases here, but let me stress that if the approval authorities have reason to believe that the submitted documentation is not satisfactory, they will have the opportunity to request the submitted supporting documentation under the driving regulations. Here was an indication that one was also treated differently, depending on the country in question. Let me underline: this applies regardless of whether the running gear is American or European. So it was a useful experience to go into more details when it was the crazy driving and driving regulations, and I'll make it quite clear once again that the formal court of appeal will also give the opportunity to go into these matters more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1038	‘The transport network’s proposed new national transport plan for 2014-2023 refocusses on the extensive need for modernisation and upgrading of the road network in Norway. Both national and county roads have extensive maintenance seats. Increased and growing transport needs make the country need new modern and safer roads with greater capacity. The draft plan reflects little the need, because the government has made plans. What is the Government’s plan to meet the need for 20-year upgrade and new construction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1045	All first: The representative Sortevik and I are some that there is a lot to be done before Norwegian transport. This is precisely why the government has added such a sharp increase in the trajectory of the transport sector in recent years. I must also take this opportunity to remind you that, in the present national transport plan, the government greatly increases the financial framework, by 100 billion. kr more than in the previous NTP. The government has followed up the national transport plan in the annual budgets. We're serious. When it comes to the proposal from the transport centres and Avinor, which was presented on 29 February of this year, this is the professional advice. on how the government should prioritise resource use in the next national transport plan. In this proposal, the ETAs and Avinor have been given some leadership by the government, among others. they are asked to prioritise within different frames – the maximum 45 pst. from the current NTP. If they were not given priority, this proposal could seem quite toothless. Neither in the transport area is it so that we can do everything at the same time. We need to select, and when the etats and Avinor have to choose, they just point out that there is a great need for extra resources for maintenance, operation and renewal. I've noticed that. There is therefore a great need, and the government has stepped up its efforts to upgrade both the road network and the rail system. The representative of Sortevik refers only to the road sector in question. Resources for other sectors are also needed, for example: for aviation, rail and other public transport. The road sector alone cannot solve all the transport challenges we will face over the years. I hope the representative will agree with me that there is also a need for funds for the railway. Not least, this will be important in urban areas – it will also appear in the proposal we have received from the Eta and Avinor. We are now doing well with the next national transport plan. He will be presented to the Storting next spring. I have to promise that the government will take the challenges seriously. My ambition for a fully-fledged transport system is firm within 20 years. When the next transport plan comes, I believe the representative Sortevik – and also others – will see that the plan will be a good step in the direction that we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1060	Thank you for the answer, which was as expected. Then the rest becomes a line chord exchange between two impatient ones. But many have been impatient. Minister of Transport Trygve Bratteli presented in 1962 a plan of 785 km of quadruple motorway in Norway by 1980. Despite the fact that 32 years have passed since it was supposed to be completed, there is still a great deal of motorway missing. My point of asking about the perspective past the ten years of a new national transport plan is that both the Minister for Transport and others want a final result after 20–25 years. Then it has to be predicted and shown. My challenge to the Minister of Transport is whether she and the government will do so in connection with the NTP and perhaps present a perspective analysis that shows where we are after 20 years – whether we are in goal or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1069	Let me first go back to the existing plane. Etats were asked to plan for different frames and then for a maximum of 20 pst. plus. Now you have the different frames from which they have planned with the highest frame - 45 pst. plus. At the same time, they are also asked to describe larger bets. There they have replied to describe some major bets that they think go beyond the plan that will be submitted next spring. I guess there's a question about where we are after the next ten years – so I'm taking the representative Sortevik's advice with me – without being able to answer it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1074	It was a little more welcoming and a little more exciting. The point for the impatient – among whom both the Council of State and the undersigned are located – is that they would like to see a little clearer where the road will go, and whether there is a claim that, as among other things the Minister of Transport uses, we should have a modern road network after 20 years. So far, there are neither credible perspectives, plans, nor figures that indicate that this will be the case with the speed of government. Although the amount of the crown is increasing, there is a big gap between the need and what actually comes through the crowning through the plan. The father is that it will take 50 and 70 years at the pace of the government – God forbid you to continue for so long – but we need to get modern road networks. That is why I repeat my wish that we have to get a perspective analysis in connection with a new NTP that shows that we are at least closer to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1081	Perhaps I should be daring to say that I am of course counting on the representative Blackevik to see what is happening to the improvement of time, both when it comes to maintenance and renewal, and when it comes to new projects. Increasing frames has given us the ability to plan and build far more coherently than too few years back. Increased frames have also given many more, both people and businesses, the ability to get a safer and better way. The activity has increased significantly. And then we're some of the things that happen very well, that's a lot done. I repeat: I take the representative's advice with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1092	‘The Bondevik II government set the golden rule that growth in drugs and psychiatry alone should be greater than growth in somatic products. Since then, it has been stated in the letter of assignment for the RHFs. It's changed this year. From the Health and Care Committee, there is no lead to change in that priority. The Council of State has indicated that there is a lost priority, as expressed by the Health Director. Will the Council of State reconsider this, so that the RHFs continue to renovate the offer to these previously dedicated patient groups?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1099	Like the representative, Höie, I am concerned that people with mental and drug addiction should receive the best possible treatment. In recent years, the percentage growth in mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment is required to be stronger than in somatic health services. This has been measured using cost figures, but cost figures are not always a good measure of quality and availability, and therefore say little about which services are best for patients. As a result, since 2010, the Ministry has followed developments in activity, waiting times and staff in particular. The government’s draft budget for the Grand Duchy for 2012 set out developments. In the last five years, the percentage growth in activity has been higher in mental health protection and in multidisciplinary specialised treatment than in somatic health services. From 2009 to 2010, the level of annual work was stable in the somatic sector, while the number of annual works increased by 5 pst, respectively. and 3.2 pst. in mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment. Overall, this suggests that mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts have been a high priority. Activity growth has been higher than in somatic health services, and never has so many people been helped to deal with drug problems in specialised health services as in 2010 and 2011. About 80 pst. the resources for mental health protection go to the daily distributions. It is therefore important that the migration process be implemented so that these resources are more widely used for services that are better adapted to the needs of patients and are available in the community. This is in line with the Interaction Reform, where specialist health services and municipal services must interact for the benefit of patients. The 2012 draft budget focused on continuing the transition to mental health protection and on increasing the capacity of multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. This has been followed up in the 2012 mission document to the regional health establishments. Having said this, I would like to point out that it is also important to give priority to groups within what we call somatic patient treatment. The 2012 mission document includes, inter alia: cancer treatment and treatment of strokes specific areas of action. In the mission paper for 2011 and 2012, we have requested that the waiting time for investigation and treatment in the specialist health service be reduced and that no time-limits should be imposed. The average waiting time in mental health protection, drug treatment and somatics has fallen from 2010 to 2011, and I am pleased that the figures show a positive trend.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1116	There are two things you can understand from the Council's answer. The first, which is joyous, is that the golden rule has actually worked; it has led to a higher growth both in the field of drugs and psychiatry, and both in terms of capacity and treatment and annual work. The second thing I've read from the Council of State's response is not positive, namely, that the depriority of addiction and psychiatry that it involves removing the golden rule is a conscious and wanting policy from the Council of State, and which she here defends. The consequence of this is that somatics will once again grow at the expense of drugs and psychiatry. One of the main reasons for the then Health Minister Ansgar Gabrielsen to introduce the Golden Rule was that the effort-driven funding itself is stimulating growth in somatic matters, and in order to ensure the distribution one had to have the golden rule. Doesn't the Council of State see that we're now going back and not forward in these two areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1127	I really want to reject that this is a depriority. It's not. The fact that you don't prioritize anything else as strongly doesn't mean that it's not growth, because it's still. When mental health — the whole field — has been strongly prioritised, there has also been growth in somatic matters, but it has been lower. What we see now is that, fortunately, since Ansgar Gabrielsen has been a great growth in the field of mental health protection, and that has been important. It's been a proper priority, and it's been a necessary priority. Now it's necessary to look at the whole field, including for example. cancer treatment. When there are so many new cases that come within the cancer area, it is important that we can treat them in a good way. We have made strict demands on hospitals about how they should behave in treating cancer patients. I also believe that the representative, Mr Höie, agrees. And it's clear that hospitals need resources in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1136	I fully agree that there is a need to prioritize cancer patients in somatic matters, but I deeply disagree that one in the years to come needs a higher rate of growth in somatic matters than one in drugs and psychiatry. We are trying to recover many years of systematic discrimination against these two patient groups – a work that the Minister of Health of the Workers' Party is now stopping. There is nothing to suggest that drug and psychiatry patients are now assimilated to somatic patients. If one looks at the waiting time, one sees that it is still the addicts who wait the longest for treatment, and it is also this patient group who has had the least decrease in waiting time in the last year. What makes the Minister of Health obviously feel the same as the Director of Health, that there is no longer a need to prioritize drugs and psychiatry higher than somatics?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1143	I believe that I responded in my first answer, that it is also important to give priority to other groups. It's not that because you give priority to something, there's a drop in the other fields. I fully agree that ruspacers are an important group. Especially those with multiple disorders are demanding and need good services in the specialist health service. But it's true that even for these groups, it's important that the somatic supply is good, and that you can also treat these in hospitals. I am pleased that in recent years health care companies have given a very high priority to this group in order to establish better services in hospitals and in the institutions with which hospitals have agreed. It has happened in several health companies and has given them a better offer. So saying that now we have to prioritise more equally in all areas, doesn't mean a depriority. On the contrary: this is an important group.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1158	‘The aim has been to strengthen the focus on the rehabilitation field. In a new report, the National Audit Office has stated that there has not been a measurable strengthening of the rehabilitation field and that more conditions should be improved. The right, together with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, has proposed a national escalation plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Government and government parties have not supported this. Would the Council of State, by reason of the Riksrevision's findings, reconsider supporting such an escalation plan?»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1165	Habilitation and rehabilitation are important for people with complex help needs to achieve the best possible functional and mastering capacity, independence and participation socially and in society. The national strategy for habilitation and rehabilitation in 2008–2011 has recently been completed. During the strategy period, a number of actions were put in place and funds have been allocated to different projects. Habilitation and rehabilitation is a process involving several actors, including actors in sectors other than the health sector. Habilitation and rehabilitation take place both in municipalities and in specialist health services. In the specialist health service, such services are provided in different hospital departments, outpatient clinics, through outpatient teams, and by learning and mastering centres. Regional health undertakings have concluded agreements with a number of private training and rehabilitation institutions, and the agreements require quality. This has helped to enable the provision to meet patients’ needs for specialised rehabilitation and rehabilitation services to a greater extent than in the past. There has been a good professional development in rehabilitation and rehabilitation in recent years. The need for rehabilitation has changed. In some areas, there has been a reduction in the need, including: due to more prudent orthopaedic operating methods. The waiting times for such operations have expired. These are conditions that may reduce the need for rehabilitation. In other areas, greater needs are identified. Interaction reform is an important step towards contributing to a comprehensive rehabilitation process for those who need it. New medical treatments help many patients to cope with the follow-up to local health and care services. The Ministry has received a report from the Health Directorate on the clarification of the division of responsibilities and tasks between municipalities and specialist health services in the rehabilitation field. We are now working on following up these proposals. The instruments of the interaction reform are designed to strengthen the provision of municipalities. In a new law on municipal health and care services, the municipal responsibility for rehabilitation has been clarified. The interaction reform shall be implemented over time. We are doing well to further develop and build services so that everyone who needs them gets a good rehabilitation and rehabilitation process that is tailored to the needs of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1180	This answer is not elucidating. In fact, I agree with the Secretary-General of the LHL who has stated that the story of rehabilitation policy is a story of broken promises. I would like to add: despite the fact that rehabilitation is part of the treatment, i.e. a patient's right, and despite the fact that the Stortinget has clearly said that habilitation and rehabilitation must be the next major area of health care – as the National Audit Office has also pointed out – the government's 2008 strategy does not in any way guarantee this, on the contrary. Rehabilitation priorities continue. In the 2009 budget, the only designation for rehabilitation was removed, and the money for the purchase of services by private training and rehabilitation institutions was included in basic transfers to regional health establishments. This was in violation of the National Rehabilitation Strategy, from 2008, and I have to ask: When does the Minister of Health intend to follow up the Storting decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1187	I believe that there has been a growth in rehabilitation, but it is clear that with the interaction reform and cooperation between the municipality and the specialist health service, rehabilitation is also on several levels and at several levels. I can only show that when, for example, concerns funds for services in private training and rehabilitation institutions, which I know the representative is very concerned about, this is an increase of 995.8 million. kr in 2005 to approx. One and a half billion. kr in 2011. COSTRA reporting also shows a steady increase in municipal resource use in this area. What is important in order to achieve good rehabilitation now is to be able to achieve a good division of tasks between the specialist health service and the municipalities, in order to meet the objectives of the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1192	It is the responsibility of the Minister for Health that these good cooperation agreements are put in place. But I have to draw up again what the Riksrevision has said, because it seems as if the Minister of Health does not take it entirely into consideration. They believe that these waiting, lying, etc. indicators show that there is no measure of a strengthening of the rehabilitation field between 2005 and 2010 at national level. They also consider that there is a need to improve reporting systems that make the capacity for rehabilitation visible. I ask again what the Council of State has intended to do in concrete terms to improve and strengthen the offer of rehabilitation, and whether she will take the Riksrevision report seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1201	I always take the Riksrevision reports seriously. But it is equally full that our accounting figures show that there has been a growth, especially in relation to the private training institutions and rehabilitation institutions, and much has been done in the area of rehabilitation within different groups to meet groups that have not been well cared for in the past. In fact, I believe that this is an area which is particularly important in relation to the cooperation reform. Getting good patient outcomes between specialist health services and community health services is very important, especially for patients who need to be rehabilitated over time. It is also true that where patients were previously seen to be sent to a rehabilitation institution and left for a long time, many patients would like to have other offers, closer to where they live, more in the municipalities, and more outpatient services. It is also important to adapt to the emerging needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1213	‘The NRC reported on 7 March on three Filipino nurses subject to coercion in the organisation of work at Oslo University Hospital, OUS. OYS, as well as the women themselves, have reported to the police the company that communicated the nurses. The involvement of hospital staff in the organisation of the affair has also been reported. Will the Council of State ensure that the role of the OYS staff is independently examined in order to clarify the circumstances surrounding this matter and to ensure that any offences and critical circumstances of the OYS are followed up?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1220	Of course, it is totally unacceptable that foreign labour should be recruited to Norway under such conditions as have been identified in this case. It is therefore good that the hospital has cleaned up the working conditions of these three nurses and that they have arranged living conditions. As has been announced through the media, the case is now being investigated by the police, and the hospital will assist the police with information in the matter. It is also known that the Executive Director of Oslo University Hospital immediately initiated work internally to identify documentation and course of events in the case. The hospital has also asked its own accountant, PricewaterhouseCoopers, to do an extended audit. It shall also include the procedures for recruitment and administrative procedures in general. I assume that the police investigation will clarify the role of employees and any offences and critical circumstances in this matter. I will therefore not initiate further investigations as long as the police are investigating the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1231	We cannot, of course, pre-clude anything in this room in terms of police investigation, but the police are investigating possible violations of criminal law. The question to be answered by the Council of State, which is politically responsible, is: how could this happen? Although it was supposed to show that there has been no violation of criminal law, it is hardly this type of recruitment, this kind of care of the employees and this way of building up competence in the health sector on which we want in this country. The Minister for Health announced a thorough review of the recruitment procedures, ensuring that there were proper, decent conditions in the healthcare system, in the public – what we politicians have under control – after the so-called Adecco case. The question to the Council of State is simply: how could this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1236	The President will draw attention to the fact that this matter is under investigation by the police, and will leave to the Council of State to decide whether she will respond to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1239	In this case there are several people who have been notified. The hospital has notified the company, or the person, who has recruited these nurses in this way. At the same time, the hospital has been notified. In addition, the hospital's management has taken the initiative to conduct thorough internal investigations and has been very clear that this is what they are following up. So when it comes to recruitment in general, I've said that of course it's completely unacceptable that you recruit this way. It is a well-known case that hospitals need temporary workers. After the Adecco case, we had a review of temporary care in all the hospitals in Norway, just to make sure it didn't happen this way. But then this was reviewed in connection with temporary employment companies. This case is very special, so we have to wait here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1246	I would like to stress that of course the Right has full respect for the legal proceedings that are taking place, and that we do not in any way have any conclusion on the investigation by the police – or what it might lead to. Nevertheless, there is a political point here which, regardless of whether you find a crime or not, is about decent working conditions and recruitment in the public sector, for which the Minister of Health has the highest responsibility. My follow-up question to the Council of State will be – independent of this police case, where I understand, of course, that she cannot answer: How will this matter be investigated or investigated internally in the OYS? Is it reasonable and favourable, in the opinion of the Council of State, that there are persons who, at least — or perhaps not — have been very close to this matter, close to the recruitment policy and close to the responsibility for the welfare of employees and for decent working conditions, who are to investigate themselves, or should an external audit be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1253	I would say that the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers is not really running anyone's errand, except to do the audit they're going to do. They have, as I said, been asked to do an extended revision. I don't have to have a review to say that what has emerged in the media is completely unacceptable. We're not going to have it that way. No one shall experience such working conditions and no one shall be able to carry out such recruitment. So it has happened. This is a police report. The hospital has been reported to the police. The hospital does its own internal audit — an extended audit — as they have warned. I'm waiting for this. Then we might have to see if there are other things to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1266	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Unfortunately, more and more cases of animal metastases are detected. Yes, as high as three times more cases in 2011 than in 2010 were detected according to a new Food Safety Authority report. Is the Council of State on the same lines as the undersigned concerned about developments and wants to do something about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1275	Any case of animal miscarriage gives rise to great concern. Things that are discovered are often complex and may have several causes. Personal problems in animal ownership are not unusual. There may be several reasons for the reported increase from 2010 to 2011. Relationships with the definition and method make the figures not readily comparable. The definition of ‘animal Tragedies’ in the Food Safety Authority’s reporting system has been amended to include a larger group and its reporting has been amended accordingly. This can explain part of the increase, but not all. Animal welfare has been one of three priority areas of the Food Authority over the last two years, and supervision has devoted more resources to this work. Food surveillance is working on a plan for more risk-based supervision. Animals typically occur in the holding of animals at risk. Food surveillance uses a lot of resources to identify and follow up such animal husbandry. Animal husbandry with poor history, such as: those supplying animals for slaughter in a less favourable manner are more likely to be examined than animal husbandry with good results over time. Therefore, the statistics on the presence of animal trachea may be somewhat misleading, as it is not based on a randomly selected material. However, risk-based supervision is important for channelling the resources that are most needed. Oversight coming from public concerns reports has increased. Food surveillance has facilitated the use of the possibilities and obligations of alerts under the Animal Welfare Act. In addition, all supervision of the presence of the Food Authority in the pond, but where the inspection visit does not primarily have animal welfare as its primary purpose. Such supervision also reveals poor care. Nevertheless, as the representative, Mr Bredvold, I believe that an increase in the number of cases detected is worrying. At the same time, it shows that the increased oversight activities of the Food Authority produce results. I am glad that the Food Authority also focuses on animal tragedy in several forums. The Food Safety Authority has carried out cooperation meetings with the Agricultural HMS service and the so-called Strategic Forum on Animal Welfare, where the theme of animal trag animals has been addressed with the industry several times. It is important that industry establish good joint solutions to prevent tragedies. The Food Safety Authority is doing its part of the job, but the matter cannot be resolved by supervision alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1294	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also particularly thank you for the last part of the answer, because I was a little afraid that the Council of State would explain the numbers – that is, the increase – but I understand that he does not want it. I believe the Council of State and the Party of Advancement have the same goal, that the number of animals should drop and preferably as close to zero as possible – but I do not overlook that there will always be some, because of special circumstances, of course. I would like the Council of State to also say something about animal protection. In many states – perhaps in all states, for that matter – we have animal protection as in the respective regions. They're also doing a huge job. If the council can say a little about them and their work, I'll be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1301	As I said, I'm here to explain and not explain away. There are things that speak for that there would be a greater number of supervisory results with findings as a result of definitions, but that doesn't explain everything. The new Animal Welfare Act adopted by the Stortinget in 2009 provides the Food Authority with a wider range of instruments to follow-up animal welfare matters. I have been very clear to the Swedish Food Safety Authority that the necessary tools will be used. However, there is still a wide variation in the use of the instrument by the Food Authority, as has been demonstrated by both the internal audits of the Food Authority and the National Audit Office’s investigations into the Food Authority. On several occasions, the Food Authority has taken decisions on activity refusal. It has contributed to the reduction of animal suffering, especially in what can be called problem animal husbandry. The focus on animal welfare and the focus on supervision is high, it is important, and it must be followed up across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1308	One of the measures the Progress Party wants to focus more on is to lose the right to have animals if you make mistakes several times so that we get animals. Other measures are likely to be available, for example: more frequent visits to the Food Authority. It may also be that those who accept meat can be even more careful considering who delivers animals that are destitute for some reason. So I hope the Council of State can also say a little more about the actions he wants to prioritise in the future, both to reduce the number of animal tragedies and to punish those who do something wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1313	Serious deformities of animals may result in a person or family being refused to keep animals. That's one of the possibilities you have for reactions. It is a very serious and interventional measure, but it should be there as an opportunity. Besides that, I'm very concerned that we have risk-based supervision. That means we're using other knowledge to assess risk and from it put resources where the probability of finding something is highest. It probably also means that you get better results than if it had been completely random supervision, as I see it. One of the areas also mentioned by the representative Bredvold is that we get signals from slaughterhouses and industry-related actors. Those signals are to be followed closely, and the warning obligation of people is also most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1324	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘1. In January of this year, a regulation granting persons without housing in Norway, both persons with and without legal residence, the right to financial support if they are unable to provide for their own living. This gives them rights under the Law on Social Services in Nav, e.g. they may apply for assistance to cover expenses incurred by a dentist or a resident. We know that there are Norwegian citizens who can't afford dental treatment. Can the Council of State then defend the fact that foreigners, including those without legal residence, are covered by dental expenses in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1333	The general rule in the regulation on social services for persons without a permanent residence in Norway is that persons who are not Norwegian citizens and who do not have a residence here do not have a right to individual services under the law. The same applies to persons residing illegally in the country. They are only entitled to information, advice and guidance, as this will be necessary, for example: to explain to them that there is no possibility of financing a stay in Norway with social assistance, whom they should contact in order to arrange a return trip, etc. At the same time, we do not want a society where people – regardless of background – freeze and starve in the street. Therefore, an exception has been made in the regulation, so that persons who are without other means are entitled to financial benefits and help to find temporary housing for a short period of time. In such cases, the most important thing is for a few days, so that they can get in touch with family, friends or others in their home country, possibly get help from their embassy to arrange a return ticket. I am also aware that someone has received a return ticket using social services. Before the regulation came into force, this type of assistance was provided in an emergency with reference to unlawful considerations. I think it is an advantage that this is now regulated to ensure a more consistent practice. Social assistance for persons with short-term or illegal residence in the country shall address their acute need for a few days of life. Remuneration for dental expenses is a type of expenditure that is not considered to be part of the maintenance of life. The Ministry’s circular I-34/2001 states that, depending on the specific situation, expenditure on dental treatment may be part of the living environment. For those who are obliged to leave the country or who are expected to obtain their own funds within a few days, dental costs will only be considered as costs of living in very special cases, such as: if necessary, emergency withdrawal due to damage. So it is not that foreigners, regardless of their legal status or duration, are covered by dental care costs, while Norwegian citizens do not receive this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1347	I thank you for your answer. In recent times, I have received several enquiries from the Nav office located in different places in the country. They claim that there has been a change in legislation, a change in the way of acting. They also say that there is an increased influx of users, especially from Eastern Europe, who come and ask for social assistance. In addition, they say that the new regulation involves more follow-up, more resource-intensive follow-up, from the Nav offices to follow-up. KS has previously stated that this regulation had to be in place, otherwise it would mean that you had to cancel the EEA Agreement. My question to the Council of State will then be: Is KS’s interpretation correct – that this is either a regulation or a termination of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1356	I don't think it's an interesting issue, because we agree that, regardless of this regulation, today we have a principle that the most important thing – ‘rights’ and ‘rights’ were used before – is to help people. You kind of don't see people more or less suffering or dying on the streets of Norway. Then it's very useful and easy to have a prescription that says it's like that. This is particularly important in relation to Nav, so that we are sure that Nav practices these rules in a good way – because we have to be sure that they do. Then it is very important to me that it is not such that you have a right to dental treatment beyond what is absolutely necessary. In most cases it will certainly not be about pulling, either. Trekking has Norwegian citizens entitled to cover. In exceptional cases, e.g.: If you get knocked down on the street and broke a tooth, you'll be able to cover it in social assistance even if you're a foreign citizen. I can live with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1363	Several media have predicted, if you can use that term – and we already see it – an increase in the influx of people from the EEA territory or the EU area who come to Norway to seek happiness. We had cases in Bergen earlier this year, and at that time it was also discussed who is responsible for the money. But then this rule comes. Those who work in the Nav offices, those who see and handle this, feel that it is a liberalisation. At the same time, a year ago, the Brochmann Committee recommended moving in the opposite direction and tightening up the obligation of activity, etc., so that we could not simply come and trigger passive benefits in Norway. Does the Council of State fear that there will be an increase in pressure, that the pressure we are already seeing will increase, and that it will create the need for greater resources – and challenges – for Nav in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1370	This is an incorrect description of the fact. There is no liberalisation, and I have not received any pressure from any Nav office that it feels like liberalisation. So here we have a very different perception of how reality is. So what you're going to do here is you're going to drop an emergency trial, and that makes sense. Maybe that's actually what makes you more able to set clear limits. Then I believe that the EEA Agreement is good for Norway. I think Norwegian jobs and Norwegian workers should be very happy that we have the EEA Agreement. It's possible that we disagree on that, but it's not crucial in this case. I believe this is a good and sensible downfall. Then we see that we are now getting a certain increase in jobseekers from southern Europe. There has been no large increase. There's no reason to think that's gonna happen either, but we don't know. They do not claim social assistance in addition to what I say here, until they may have been in Norway, had a job and stayed here for a long time – working in Norway. Then they can get into a situation where they can get supplementary social assistance. But initially, we're talking the same way about those Italians, as I've been through now. So I'm not worried about the way the Progress Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1383	‘State Eighteen Company Entra plans to build a large data storage facility in the Fet municipality of Akershus. This extension will require a large amount of power, approximately. 550 GWh from two independent sources. This stream must be transported over large distances, e.g. from the West. Today, the power grid capacity in Oslo and Akershus is burst – cf. ‘Network Plan Stor-Oslo’. How do governments see such plants being built so far from the power source, and what consequences will there be for the Oslo and Akershus power grid in terms of the need for new line construction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1390	A well-developed transmission system is necessary to balance production and consumption in all parts of the country. With a large element of renewable energy, it is often difficult to avoid a distance between production and consumption. In Norway, significant parts of power production are located in the West and in North Norway. However, the east has the highest consumption of energy in the country, which far exceeds what can be produced in the country. It is therefore necessary to transport power from west to east and from north to south. It's always been like that. In Report. St. 14 for 2011–2012 has the government among others. aim to facilitate the development of industries requiring increased power availability. This implies that transmission system operators should strive to optimise the adaptation of network capacity to changes in consumption and production by early planning and investment. The planning must take into account that there is considerable uncertainty about the future development of transmission capacity demand. Large consumption establishments can lead to relatively high jumps in consumption in an area. Some large consumers may have power outlets that are several times larger than a medium-sized Norwegian city. It is demanding for the development of the power system. Large consumption start-ups in areas with a tight power balance are a particular challenge for the transmission system and may trigger the need for large network investments. There is therefore a high level of coordination between consumption and networks. New consumption can be established faster than the necessary transmission capacity can be put in place. In order for actions in the network to be in place in time, transmission system operators must be well informed of major planned changes in consumption and production. In Report. Article 14 for 2011-2012 and Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009, the Government stresses that this is a responsibility that cannot be borne by the transmission system companies alone, but requires good cooperation between network companies, local and central authorities and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1401	Thanks for the answer. It is clear that we should also facilitate the development of nutrition and re-establishment in key areas. But the current to be transported to such a large facility is to be transported over long distances, and we all know that it is reluctant to big lines, especially because the workplaces come elsewhere. We also know that there is a large power loss by transferring power over long distances. We can compare this big establishment to a metallurgy. I would believe that if one were to establish a metalwork in this area, there would be a demand for an impact assessment. I would like to go a little further on what the Council of State is thinking about the proximity of power generation to the power-intensive industry, and if the Council of State will take an initiative that the State Eighteen Company Entra will carry out an impact assessment on power before the construction of the new plant in Fet may be started.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1408	With regard to Entra and Entra's plans, it's a company that's not under my department. It is therefore wrong for me to have opinions about what Entra should do and, if necessary, not do. Furthermore, the way the government manages ownership, properly described in the ownership message, to which I feel that the Right has joined. It is my job to ensure that there is a balance between consumption, production and import capacity in all parts of the country. It shall be possible to predict the development of economic activity wherever in Norway. I believe – and I believe that is also the situation in the future – that there should be a competitive advantage for many Norwegian districts where production is large, attracting players who have a great need for strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1415	Thanks for the answer. This isn't about ownership, it's about power consumption. I agree that in the Western region there is an absolute need to establish power-using industries. Lefdal Gruve in Nordfjord is a brilliant example of that. A large storage facility is planned. There is abundant access to short-range power, there are good geological conditions, and Måløy Growth and LocalHost have made an excellent effort to present this project. We also see that there is a Memorandum of Understanding between IBM and Lefdal Gruve, and the Council of State, Giste and the Council of Navarsete, were present when he was signed. It shows that the government has also pointed out that this could be a very exciting project. Based on the fact that this is a major power consumer: does the Council of State see the need for a national policy in relation to the localisation of this type of data centre, based on power consumption considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1422	Let me just say that I am very much in favour of setting up a powerful industry in Norway, including the creation of data centres, data storage capacities and other installations that require a lot of power. There should be excellent facilities for this both in Sogn and Fjordane and a number of other places in Norway. We have seen examples from other Nordic countries where large international data operators have chosen that type of location of that type of activity. My job as an oil and energy minister is to ensure that the conditions are present, and that there is sufficient infrastructure to enable that type of establishment. If that happens, I'm very happy about it. I think that would be good for Norway, and in this case it would be good for Sogn and Fjordane. However, my job is not – and cannot be – to instruct Entra to do one or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1429	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-28.ana.ud885e1442	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
