ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e177	Honourable co-representatives! Former Parliamentary representative and parliamentary leader, Harald Synnes, died on 17 May, 81 years old. Harald Synnes represented Vest-Agder Christian People's Party on the Stortinget. For twelve years from 1969 he was an alternate before being permanently elected as a representative from 1981 to 1989. With him, a committed, willful and strongly ideologically anchored politician has gone away. Harald Synnes was born on 18 March 1931 in Bø, Vesterålen. After completing cand.real education, he settled in Kristiansand, where he worked as a lecturer. He came into local politics early. In 1960 he became a member of Kristiansand City Council. For 20 years he has had strong local political involvement, as rapporteur, rapporteur and member of the county council. In his time at Stortinget, Synnes was a member of the Finance Committee, except for one year, from 1985 to 1986, when he was a member of the Foreign and Constitutional Committee. He was also a member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee and of the delegation to the Nordic Council. When the Christian People's Party joined the Willoch government in 1983, he became the parliamentary leader. Harald Synnes also had experience with the government apparatus. In the Korvald government he was State Secretary at the Prime Minister's office, and he became a central person in the negotiations for a trade agreement with the EC. In the Syse government, he was State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and the Church. Harald Synnes had a number of responsibilities. He was, among other things, Member of the Joint Council, of the Human Rights Committee, of the Board of No to the EU and Chairman of the Regional Council of Agder. In recent years he was the chairman and the work of the Arctic Course and Competence Centre. Harald Synnes was a capable and knowledgeable person with great work capacity. He strongly engaged in the fight for the disadvantaged and actively working in Stortinget, among others. for a fairer tax system and for relief measures to disadvantaged pregnant women. He was, both as a person and as a politician, one who always stood up for what he meant and believed in. The EEA matter became difficult and led to him for some time withdrawing from the Christian People's Party, but he came back and made a great effort as the leader of the party's senior selection. We remember Harald Synnes for his work in the Storting and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e203	The representative of Jørund Rytman, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e211	On behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I am promoting proposals for tax treatment of professional driving and borderline against the tax on benefits due to private use.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e216	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after the No. 1 to 4 on the current map has been completed and then total voting after case No. 5 to 25 at the end of the day’s meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e236	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e263	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e272	The matter we are now dealing with is a joint proposal from the Ministry of Finance with proposals for amendments to the Accounting Act, the Securities Trading Act, the Real Estate Act, etc. The Committee broadly endorses the proposals made in the proposal in most areas, but is divided into the view on the length of retention of documents required by the Accounting Act. I would like to link some comments to that very question and comment on the proposal for changes to the real estate law. As regards the length of the retention period for documents under the Accounting Act, the majority of the Committee takes note that the Government is not now proposing a change to the requirement of a 10-year retention period for primary documents covered by the Accounting Act. This is in line with the recommendations of the Tax Directorate and Ecokrim and is supported by a large majority of the hearing bodies including the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Knowledge, the Nav, the Competition Authority, the LO, the Auditor’s Association, the Riksadvokaten and the Sparebank Association. In the majority’s view, the long-term background to the documents is that they contribute to ensuring evidence as long as there may be a real need to verify them. In identifying and investigating organised economic crime, this is essential, and the majority have taken note of the Ecocrime's clear recommendation in the case, where they just point out that the retention period has had an impact both in general and in a number of examples on the fight against just financial crime. The majority also suggests that there must be consistency between the requirement to keep documents and the limitation period in tax and criminal matters. The majority are at the same time concerned with their objective of business simplification, as we were when, for example: removed the obligation to audit the annual accounts of the smallest companies. The key issue of retention is whether the use of the ten-year retention requirement is proportionate to the costs incurred by the accounting officer. The minority in the Committee points out in its comments the costs they consider to be incurred by business in requiring ten years' retention of accounting documents and proposes to reduce them to five years. This is supported by several consultation bodies, such as the Data Protection Agency, HSH, Narf and NHO. The rationale for minority views and proposals will be addressed by others. However, the Committee agrees that current paper documents will gradually be replaced by other storage media and is in favour of clarifying that there is freedom of choice in relation to storage medium. The Committee considers that this will contribute to the reduction of storage costs for business. The second amendment I want to make a few comments to is the Property Agents Act. When the law on real estate brokerage was passed here in the Stortinget in 2007, the significant changes were made in comparison with the previous law. Among other things, the skills requirements of those working as brokers were strengthened. The law is also adjusted in this case, by allowing the staff to work for a certain period without passing the examination as an estate agent in regulatory homes. Such a scheme will, at the discretion of the Ministry, meet a need for greater flexibility in the recruitment of assistants in the real estate brokerage industry, while assisting before the examination will be able to gain relevant knowledge and experience. The Committee points out that the intention of the examination is to increase the level of competence in the industry and therefore considers it essential that the new home does not lead to the widespread use of temporary employment of non-examination assistants. In addition to these comments, the Committee endorses the proposal. The minority will take up their proposal. I hereby submit the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e298	The length of time required for accounting officers to keep records depends, of course, on weighing many different considerations. I'm glad that case no. 2 and 3 will be treated together. The right's view is only on the holding of accounts and not the other on case No. 2 – which we otherwise support. The retention period requirement shall ensure that the documentation is available to the authorities for as long as there may be a need to verify it. At the same time, the requirement to keep costs for those subject to bookkeeping shall mean that the retention period should be no longer than strictly necessary. The right considers that Norway should follow the developments that have occurred in Denmark and Sweden and that we should reduce the retention period to five years. On the basis of the material currently available, the Ministry has, for some reason, come to the conclusion that further monitoring of the costs related to storage time requirements is necessary, before any proposal to the Storting House to reduce storage time can be made. In addition, the Ministry does not propose any changes to the current retention period requirements, despite many reports, extensive consultation opinions – on which the case-rapporteur was involved – from an overall business life and not least a unanimous opposition, as well as the government's own concrete objective of reducing administrative burdens on business. The right is therefore surprised that the government is unable to take a stand on a matter in which the consequences are clearly more than well established. On the basis of the Stortingen’s request, the Ministry asked both the Tax Directorate and the Økokrim at the end of 2007 for an assessment of the 10 year retention requirement for primary documentation. The right therefore believes that the government must start work on any changes in the law, so that progress is maintained in this work, which has obviously stopped completely under this government. In Denmark, as a general rule, a five-year retention period is required. Some exceptions have been made. In Sweden, retention time was reduced from ten to seven years as part of the Swedish government’s simplification work. The right notes that the simplification work for business has better conditions in our neighbouring countries, which at the time the changes were adopted, both had bourgeois governments. Both the Right and the Government have promised business simplifications of 5 billion. kr during 2013. It is very difficult for the government to do so if it is unable to implement the most obvious measures, such as: the proposal to halve the retention obligation. The government itself writes that the costs associated with the retention of accounting material — which, in the view of the government, should be assessed further — are estimated at 631.5 million. kr per year. So it's 2.2 pst. of the total administrative costs of the enterprises. A follow-up report on the development of the administrative costs of business, prepared by Rambøll Management in November 2009 for the government, indicates that nothing has happened in the period 2006 to 2009. In the consultation response to Narf, it is shown, inter alia, that: to keep the industry stored at all times around 80 million book covers, and that it is only in 1 pst. by the enterprises being checked, errors are found in the material. That means, based on the Narf's way of counting, that 40 million book covers every single year are kept almost to no avail, and this is estimated to cost 260 million. kr for business. The right cannot see that the cost and additional work are proportionate to the benefits of the legislation. The right considers that the government’s opinions on the need for further monitoring are not justified by the lack of information, but simply by the lack of decision-making and internal disagreement within the government. Therefore, it is unfortunate that the necessary simplification work for business is at best delayed and, in the worst case, stopped once again. The government has claimed that an external investigation could be completed at the end of the year, so the Right assumes that the case will be dealt with positively in the context of the revised state budget for 2013. The Right, the Progressive Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have promoted joint proposals both as a proposal for a representative and as part of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I want to vote in both cases and address both proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e334	The representative Arve Kambe has taken up the proposals he referred to, one proposal in each of the issues at hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e337	First, I would like to make a little comment on the proposition's point 4.3, in particular, on giving access to the possibility of an assistant in real estate for a certain period of time working without passing the exam. I'm a teacher, and in fact, sometimes my students decide not to take an exam, but choose to do something else. So it could be right over here. We in the Progress Party believe that it is positive to provide helpers without exam practice and experience. In fact, after having had this practice for a while, the helper may find that it's not the future, and that one will work on something completely different. So temporary employment can be an advantage. The Progress Party also welcomes the changes in the law that allow for a simpler everyday life for the trader. It is positive that there will be a freedom of choice with regard to storage medium from paper to e.g. scanned electronic copy. It is good that the stored documents are in Norwegian, Swedish, Danish or English. For most of us, it can be, for example, be difficult to understand Arabic. Under the law in force, at least 10 years are required to keep accounting material, including primary documents. As mentioned earlier by the representative from the Right, we saw 80 million book covers consecutively, and that this storage costs 631 million. kr per year. The Ministry wants further monitoring of storage time costs. For the Progress Party, this issue has been well-understood, and it should not be difficult for the government to decide on it. Yes, documents shall be available as long as there may be a need to verify them. But it also has to be that the benefits have to be proportionate to the cost. The government promises simplification for companies with 5 billion. kr during 2013. How are they going to do this? We propose to reduce the retention time for accounting documents from ten to five years, as in neighbouring Denmark. We in the Progress Party also see that the response capacity of those who are to check stored documents will increase by a reduction from ten to five years of storage. Otherwise, I would like to point out that we are very positive about the proposal that ecocrim be given electronic access to information in Norwegian securities registers. This will be a contribution of its own to the fight against economic crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e350	As the government documents and the Government Party's suspension show, it is quite clear that our position in this case is that one does not want to have a requirement for the retention of documents longer than is necessary. It is a great respect for all the additional work that strict storage requirements lead to for the companies. I want to say it initially, so there's no doubt about it. It is like a plank in everything that the government parties do in this case. Once the case has been consulted, it has become quite clear that there is a very different view of the balance between the administrative impact on businesses and the control needs of the authorities, and it is a very clear majority that one does not need to reduce the requirement for a 10-year storage period for primary documents further down. It's the views of the Tax Directorate and the Ecokrim that we from the government parties have a lot of emphasis on, but the Saving Bank Association and the Auditor's Association have the same view. What is clear is that if a minority’s view, which the NHO stands for, is to reduce the retention period to five years, it will reduce the transparency and regulatory control of mandatory accounting reports in retrospect. What characterises Norwegian industry is that there is fair competition between companies. There is consensus among the opposition and the position that it is a great strength that one has a public code that ensures that everyone should act in such a way as not to benefit from the fact that the system is not good enough to ensure fair competition. This is a theme that we believe from the Centre Party is becoming more important and important to look after in the future, not least because we are now more faced with a working life situation and a business situation with foreign companies, i.e. companies with a foreign relationship. We also get a number of companies that are engaged in hiring out labour. At all, we get workers and companies that are less related to the Norwegian tradition, the Norwegian game rules and the Norwegian long term here. It's essential to be aware of that. I, and many businessmen with me, are very concerned that one has to maintain the rules of the game here, so that one respects our traditions. It is quite obvious that there must be consistency between the retention obligation and the limitation period, and I expect that everyone is aware of that. When we see the difficulties the authorities have in terms of the limitation period in demanding cases, it is a crucial moment for us. In the case, the government and the positioning parties have said that a person wants to look at these questions, look at the cost-benefit assessment, including the retention period. In this context, I would just like to conclude by pointing out that one thing is the time you have to keep documents. A second and more important point, in the view of the Centre Party, will be to look at the documents that need to be kept. Some of the current documentation requirements are quite demanding, and there are areas where one can ask questions about the need to have such detailed requirements as to which documents are to be kept. I would suggest that one here should make an assessment of which documents you should have, as has been done in our neighbouring country. There's one, as an example of what I'm talking about now, that reduces the requirement of, for example, cash lines. So one doesn't include that in the requirement of what's to be taken care of for ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e367	Thanks to the rapporteur for a balanced presentation – and also to the representative Lundtägen for a balanced presentation. Much has already been said by my co-sponsors regarding the proposal for a representative to amend the provisions on the retention of accounting documents. I will therefore try to be brief. For the Left, simplification for Norwegian business has been a very important matter for many, many years. We alone or together with other opposition parties have proposed a number of simplification proposals in recent years. Some of these, such as: Exemption from audit obligations for some enterprises, but far less than assumed, the government has subsequently adopted — all credit for it. All measures contributing to simplification are good. It is important that the most cost-effective measures are implemented first. The exemption from the obligation to audit is such a proposal. Reduction in the retention period of accounting material is different. Several have focused on storage costs – a significant cost of something that the Left and the other opposition parties consider completely unnecessary. Only costs of book covers, calculated by NARF to approx. 8 million permes per year, is at a place between 50 and 75 million. kr annually. In other words, there are significant costs that are completely unnecessary and that should and could have been released to the core business of businesses: the development and strengthening of businesses and thus safe jobs and our common well-being. In addition, more tax revenue will be collected by government as a result of better business performance — almost a cheek egg, to use a popular expression. The answer from the government and government parties is that it will now be optional if you want to keep accounting material electronically or perm. It is well and good, but electronic storage is also not free of charge. This is a matter that has been investigated and mapped according to all the rules of art. Nevertheless, according to the majority of the population and the government, it has to be investigated and mapped further. I wonder what it is the government parties and the government think they will discover after another assessment and mapping round that is not already known. I hope the Minister of Finance, who is the next speaker, can answer two simple questions. Question 1 is: Does the Minister of Finance have any statistics showing how many times the last ten years have been crucial for tax authorities or public prosecutors that accounting material has been available over five years? Question 2 is: What negative consequences have been reported in our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, since the retention period was reduced to seven and five years, respectively? I don't think you're supposed to be the weirdest fortune-teller to say that the retention obligation for accounting material is going to be reduced. It is easily incomprehensible that the government and government parties have to investigate and investigate and then map and map before it becomes a final result.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e388	There is no doubt that the government has set itself a very ambitious simplification target. This means that we should continue the work we have started on both simplifications in legislation and simplifications in other ways. We come up with some important simplification proposals in case no. 4 on the agenda today. It's like one has a balance between simplifications on the one hand and other important considerations on the other. Business costs are one consideration. Social requirements with regard to e.g.: fighting crime and other things is another reflection that one has to take. I don't have any special statistics in my head right now – with reference to the representative Tenden – but so with experience I have seen that there have been some very complicated and difficult issues lately that have been associated with financial crime, where one has probably needed to go beyond five years to document how history has been in such cases. So I think it's a both-and-answer on it. The reason for this is that one has decided that additional time will be needed to determine the costs associated with the 10 year storage requirement and a shorter storage period, if any. The alternative to further monitoring by the government would not have been to propose a halving of the retention period as the opposition wants, but rather, I think, to conclude that there is no basis for halving. So the fact that we are now going to spend some more time identifying costs and benefits, I think it makes sense for the matter. There is reason to stress that the retention requirement should not only ensure the possibility of carrying out actual checks or bookkeeping when applicable, but must also have a preventive effect, knowing that the accountants are able to be checked and thus have incentives to organise their business in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. So it will always be that the great majority will do their utmost to have things in order. But it's also that someone doesn't have it, and a lot of things have shown that that's the case. So some comments about the document proposal. There, the proposers point out that in their assessments to the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Directorate and Ecokrim felt that shortening the retention obligation would in practice imply substantial changes in the tax and tax laws. Representatives believe that the government must start work on any changes to the law, in order to maintain progress in the work. Accounting documentation is necessary to combat tax evasion, financial crime, and to help ensure accounting integrity, and that the accounts meet the information needs of a number of stakeholders, owners, creditors, employees and supervisory authorities. As has also been pointed out, 10 years of retention is required. It also corresponds to the usual rule as regards tax and criminal limitation periods. I therefore believe that there are good reasons for taking a new round, a new diet-benefit assessment, before a final decision on the issue. It will not only affect the issue of retention time, but it will also significantly interfere with other legislation. So it's in this that we're going to take a new round, but it's not in this that one comes to a different conclusion than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e410	I was a little surprised at the Minister of Finance who was unable to answer the question from the representative Tenden, whether there has been a need to store documents over five years – and that there is no single example. It surprises me when we deal with the matter in Stortinget today. You might have checked with your office and got that kind of information. How can you actually reject a proposal when you don't have any idea about the need, but just do guesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e416	There have been several issues of financial crime where one has seen that there has been a timely need to go beyond five years and take the long timelines in terms of both investigation, clarification and legal proceedings relating to financial crime. But, as we say, this is a balance between the need for simplification on the one hand and the need to have evidence on the other. As the representative, Lundtigen, also pointed out, it is clear that some more complex issues, such as: the owner’s side ensures that a person must be very careful to assess whether he/she should have a shorter storage period than he/she has today. But these are questions that we're going to go through, and we're going to promise that there will also be good statistics in that review.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e423	I was also a little surprised at the posts of the Council of State, so the natural follow-up question is what time perspective you have on the follow-up. That's right, as the Council of State says, that's a balancing question. In any case, the recordings we've received indicate that the vast majority of crime that can be detected can easily be detected with a five-year retention obligation. Indeed, any simplification measures can be picked down by the fact that there are special cases that could be avoided by simplifying them. So my question is, what time perspective does the Council of State have on that review?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e432	In terms of the time horizon, we intend to do it as quickly as possible. I have registered a wish to receive feedback as soon as possible, and at the latest in connection with the revised national budget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e437	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e442	I take the floor in this case to talk about the retention of accounting documents, as I am also the case spokesman for the draft representative. Simplifying business is an important goal for us in the government and for us in the Labour Party. So we've seen a measure of simplification, 10 billion. kr before 2016. We also removed the audit obligation for small limited liability companies. Nevertheless, we always have to look at society on one side and at simplifications on the other – and see what is going to weigh more heavily. Initially – when we think about these 80 million ring permanations – it may be easy to understand the question of storage time. I'll get back to that a little bit. We have still chosen to keep 10 years of storage. It's for the sake of several things, both control and societal benefit. But of course we have discussed these costs for business, and there is always a question we should ask. But what's new is that with storage medium. When the storage medium becomes electronic, the 80 million ring permans, as the NARF mentions in its hearing statement, will be far, far fewer when companies want electronic storage. I believe that companies will move to electronic storage, e.g. by scanning the invoices, and in the future electronic invoices will become much more common. Then a question has to be asked if the savings from ten to five years are the same as the opposition says. I don't have a number. I also contact the accounting industry yesterday to ask the question, and the answer they gave me then was that if an electronic medium can be used for storage, the savings requirement will be marginal, and the social benefits of 10 years of storage will be much heavier. Nevertheless, we should address the question more, so we are confident that we have both taken into account business and have taken into account the benefits of society. What I was talking to in the accounting sector yesterday, and also said to me, is that often it's like two or three years before a book review takes place, which may reveal systematic errors. Then there will be a need to go further back in time, and then it will be five years short.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e457	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e471	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e480	The position in the case that we are dealing with now deals with the necessary legislative changes that are related, among other things, to: the revised national budget, but also a number of other proposals, in particular from the minority, which I adopt as a minority account well for the sea. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the handling of this matter. Many of the points proposed have been brought together in full agreement, and several of the points in this way constitute little controversial amendments. But there are some things that I want to mention and emphasize in the treatment here, which I experience as very positive both for tax reasons and not least from the debate we had instead of the opportunity to simplify. Because I understand that the simplification proposals and the proposals that are on the table in this matter are of far greater importance than many other classical simplification proposals. Only when it comes to the issue that has been discussed about taxing in the case of withdrawals of assets and liabilities from the Norwegian tax area is it stated from the minority that the ministry and government have taken a rather tight approach to, among other things, the interpretation of the tax area. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union related thereto. I would just like to stress that the measures you take are linked to a rather complicated tax field, both related to collateral, related to interest payments and to the extent that this five-year rule, in the view of the Workers' Party, is very well on its own. There are good reasons to do this: to ensure both effective taxation and to avoid what is seen in many cases, an attempt to circumvent tax rules. So until what I think is very important for the renewal work in Norway and also against both ordinary people's everyday lives and not least business. In particular, I would like to highlight what is now being done, first of all, to amend the rules of procedure relating to property taxes. It is a necessary cleaning-up and a necessary legislative amendment, and in this way the legal security considerations that taxpayers deserve in relation to the rules of the Administrative Act in terms of stability, guidance, warning and transparency are also very much met. The two proposals, which, according to my concepts, are perhaps the most important in this matter against making everyday life easier, and for which it is good to promote and work ahead, for which I think the government deserves a great deal of credit, are the question of the employer's reporting and the electronic dialogue that you see there. As with all this kind of reform, I would say, if things were going well, you had to be able to get this into effect in 2015! It is certainly important for people, but not least for businesses, who have a significant reporting obligation to several public bodies. The ability to have such joint reporting outlined in the bill, to the tax authorities, to Nav and also to the Statistical Central Bureau is of great importance. At my discretion, it will also help to ensure the quality of the procedure – not only that it will be easier for those reporting and those who will receive, but the quality of the procedure will also improve. It is also a pleasure – and it has brought together the entire Committee – to facilitate the use of electronic tax cards. In this way, there is also a good case in the simplification work done by the government. With regard to the opposition's other proposals, as well as comments, I assume that they may explain this sea – it's an orphanage, fruit and vegetables, newspapers, electric cars or other glory.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e497	The laws relating to the revised and revised are not a new round of budgets, so we're not going to take any action on the big grips of the tax system or any other thing. But there are some things we mean both urgent, and to focus on. The first thing I want to mention is the situation of young people – or new entrants – in the housing market, and we are proposing a strong improvement of the BSU as a result. We're about to introduce new social divisions in Norway. Investing in owner-occupied dwellings and owner-occupied dwellings is important in Norway, and we are on our way to a situation where many people can be excluded because of equity requirements and inability to save. We think that should have a completely different focus from the government than you have. The next thing we think is very important is depreciation rates. We suggest a start write of 10 pst. in balancing group d. It has to do with being able to survive traditional Norwegian export or competitive activities in a country such as Norway, which we must assume will be a high-cost country, at least as far as we can see in time, those enterprises must also be encouraged to invest in the future. They need to invest to increase productivity and to have an productivity that compensates for the difference in costs that we see. There we are going to develop some quite dramatic biases in Norway, and we're a little surprised that you don't take them seriously anymore. One might say that the government's greed towards traditional industrial activities in Norway is only exceeded by its generosity towards oil companies. I expect that we will have more heated debates on the future. So the government uses plus/minus 40 pages to review property taxes. Much there is good, we join mostly, but we're more amazed at what you're not doing. It is a matter which the Stortinget dealt with already last winter, which rushed at that time, and which is even more urgent now, and it is that one develops a practice in the municipalities where machines and easily mobile equipment are included in the property tax base. There is a considerable burden on many jobs around the district of Norway that live in competition with foreign industry. The government actually promised a year and a half ago to find a grip since this haste, and we're amazed that you haven't been able to find them. I understand that power plants can be some of the reasons why you have a challenge. The right has repeatedly said that power plants are special tax objects, because there you pick up a rent in the same way that we do in the North Sea, and you can ease it out of the general problem and take it especially. So it'll be a call to the Minister of Finance, to get on with it. So I would also like to comment on EDAG, because it's a big and important bet, which we think is very important. As the rapporteur also said, this could mean quite major simplifications. But the tracks after the introduction of electronic reporting in the country are not always as good, so here we will at least encourage very close contact between the parties involved. The tax base, the tax collection – which are the municipalities, it is quite important to remember that they are in a decentralised system that requires this – employers, not least, and of course those who want to design the system. Because it is very important that we get right off farms with such a comprehensive reform, which we also believe will be able to provide significant simplifications around in Business Norway. We have a number of other proposals – the additional tax. There comes the government with a new intermediate rate – it is more likely that you have given up following what was Stortinget’s intention when the intermediate rate was removed – and we have some suggestions for IPS and inheritance tax, which I do not now have time to come up with. In general, there is not a great deal of work being done in the revised version, but I am addressing the proposals that have been put forward by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e516	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e519	The starting point for the Left's tax policy is that it should be profitable to work, to save, to invest in Norwegian enterprises and jobs, and not least to contribute to environmental and climate-friendly societal development. Therefore, the core of the Left's tax policy is a shift from red to green tax. With the tax policy of the Left, working and creating values will be more profitable, living environmentally friendly, but pollution will be less profitable. The left wants to facilitate an innovative business, where innovation and development in existing enterprises are important, and how many start their own business. The left will therefore facilitate better relationships for individual enterprises, not least for better and equal social rights. Various government councils have repeatedly said at the request of the Left that they will consider strengthening the social rights of self-employed people. Nothing has happened so far. Last week, the Stortinget dealt with a 400-page report from the Norwegian Government on employment policy. Self-employed persons are not mentioned in a word. The left has a different starting point. That is why we have a number of proposals in this position that will improve the conditions of the self-employed, from better social rights, including sick pay, to increased maximum savings in the occupational pension scheme to better and more sensible rules regarding the payment of taxes. Let me stop a little bit at the last. On May 28th this year, author Tom Egeland sent out the following Twitter message: ‘I exceeded the deadline for advance tax by a few days. Thus, I have to pay the rest of the year's tax NOW." Yes, this is actually the law for the self-employed. Not only do they have to pay taxes on a quarterly basis on the basis of an assumed income. If you are one or two days late, it is easy to assume that you have to pay the entire estimated tax you would have to have on an assumed income for the whole year. Many have to borrow to pay taxes on an assumed income. For this reason, today, the Left promotes a proposal to change the tax collection rules for self-employed workers in order to bring them closer to the usual taxpayers. A short time ago, there was an interesting interpellation here in the Stortinget, SVs Geir-Ketil Hansen raised the question of using fiscal policy actively in order to achieve the Stortinget's agreed goal in health policy. Hansen called for an active fee policy in the case of foodstuffs: a higher charge on unhealthy foods, a lower charge on healthy foods. This is entirely in agreement with the Left. That is why we are proposing a conversion of VAT on food in line with Hansen's call: no VAT on fruit and vegetables, full VAT on shower and other highly sugary beverages. This view was supported in the interpellation debate by the representative Lundteigen, who appealed to the Minister of Finance to have a full focus on the VAT system for beverages. I can't stand to quote what he said in the hall, but I hope he repeats it now, because he comes as the next speaker, I see. The paradoxical and regrettable thing is that both the SV and the Central Party are voting against the policy they are calling for. I would, however, like to congratulate the SV and the Central Party in the hope of seeing evidence of this in the policy of the 2013 budget. While the Left will improve business conditions, we will stimulate business to become more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. Through the tax system, it can be done in two ways – either by increasing environmental taxes or by introducing differentiated rates that premium desired environmental and climate-friendly behaviour. The left therefore proposes to introduce its own environmental depreciation rate in balancing group d, so that a further 5 pst depreciation is possible, if the investment clearly generates an environmental and/or climate benefit. The same approach is followed by the Left in the case of the TAX FUNN scheme. Today it's only 10 pst. of the research activity within the TaxFUNN that can be related to climate, environment and energy efficiency improvement. This will increase Left and therefore proposes the introduction of own funds limits in addition to such R & D activity, by 2 million and 4 million respectively. kr, depending on whether the research has been carried out internally in the enterprise or externally. Finally, I take up the Left's proposal in the setting, with the hope that the government will have a sloppy look at these at the next state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e550	The President then perceived that the representative Borghild Tenden has addressed both what the Left proposal is all about and the proposals that the Left has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e553	The cases relate to changes in different laws relating to the revised national budget, and I have some comments, first of all to the rules of procedure in property taxes. The tax on property is municipal, and what is a difficult question is whether to give municipalities the right of transparency and to complain when determining the tax base for power plants. In principle, it is wrong that the person who is a taxpayer does not have full access rights, and the property tax is, as I said, municipal. We are then in a situation where it is the Central Tax Office for such matters that handle this, and it has subsequently proved to be significant errors, and therefore the need has indicated that the person who is the taxpayer is fully transparent. It is important to follow further in this case, because it is central to maintaining trust between the municipalities, which have made the natural resources available in the context of power development, and thus have the right and the requirement for a part of the value creation, and the big community, which receives the main benefit from such development. It is important to have confidence and trust that taxes are properly charged. As far as property taxes are concerned, the opposition proposes changes related to property taxes on machinery and easily movable equipment. This is a proposal from the NHO, and it is a requirement that we are increasingly seeing coming, based on the competitive situation of the mainland industry. According to the views of the government and the Central Party, it is wrong to ship by the system that has been here, because integrated machinery and accessories are part of the real estate. If you don't keep the integrated machinery and accessories, it's no longer a work or a use, then it's a building. Therefore, this goes to the core of property taxation for works and uses. A different interface than what we have today is hard to imagine. It's a 100-year-old case law that is related to what we have today, and if you start with something else, we get a number of disputes. For example, we might ask, what is easily removable equipment, which is referred to here? Yes, it depends on what kind of machinery you have. All equipment can be moved today. It can be dismantled in suitable sizes, so it can be moved. We also need to be aware that the property tax, which is municipal, is to be deducted from the companies in the state corporation tax. We have to get that whole thing out. As regards the strengthening of the legal certainty of taxpayers, there has been a debate in the past, on which several have been involved. We now get a reduced additional tax of 10 pst. when taxpayers have provided incorrect or incomplete information on items in the declaration, which they are given unannounced by the employer or other third parties. The government is now following up the big debate in this area, and I am pleased with the interaction we have between Stortinget and the Ministry of Finance – it is developing well in a number of areas. On the issue of the reverse charge obligation, VAT, in the construction industry, which means that the purchaser will be able to charge the charges – unlike today – there has been a thorough debate and discussion on this issue, both in the government parties and not least in the civil service, and the proposal has been rejected. I hope that discussion is now dead, as I hear that the opposition says they're just asking for a simpler solution. This question is so complicated that if you want to do it in a good way, it is difficult to imagine a simpler solution – it is more complicated. As far as other proposals are concerned, the Progress Party has said in an exemplary way that they do not wish to re-examine these issues raised earlier in the revised national budget. I want to mention a couple of points. With regard to the proposal for a write-off, made by the Left and the Advance Party, I would say that depreciation rules should reflect the impairment, and that principle must be adhered to. There are a number of points where the impairment is greater than the depreciation today, and it must have the main focus. The Land Interest Tax Proposal from the Right to increase the minimum limit from 5500 kVA to 11000 kVA only represents a new barrier and does not change the problem in principle. The problems can only be solved by having a linear degression from where you have zero in the rent tax, to where you get a full rent tax. Furthermore, the view of the Left on full VAT on sugar-containing drinks has been fully supported by the Centre Party, whether the sugar is naturally or artificially added.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e579	The Progress Party has always taken the view of the revised national budget that it is not a new budgetary procedure. If proposals are to be submitted, there must be new changes that have occurred after the ordinary budget has been examined. This means that several of the proposals that have been put forward today, both in terms of inheritance fees, newspapers, housing savings for young people, etc., and which we can agree on, will not receive our support in any other way than by commenting. The Government proposes to tighten up the rules on the taxation of assets withdrawn from the Norwegian tax area. We believe that they must be as flexible as possible so that they do not impede the ability of Norwegian companies to convert. This also applies to cross-border migrations. The Progress Party notes that the Government justifies the proposal with decisions taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, we believe that the government uses an unnecessary strict interpretation of the Court’s decision. We will therefore oppose proposals for amendments to the tax laws § 9-14 and § 14-60, on the tax collection of objects from the Norwegian tax jurisdiction. The government is also going through this with property taxes, etc. It's a good review, but you don't do anything with easily removable equipment, which is much more taxed. It really means that it's a tax sharpening. It's a shame you don't get hold of it. Furthermore, the Government proposes to reduce the additional tax when the failure to provide information relates to items where the authorities already hold the information because they have reported from other sources. This applies, for example, when the employer has reported employee income, but too late for the information to be included in the published declaration, and the taxpayer forgets to record it. The government proposes to reduce the rate from 30 pst. to 10 pst. It is good that the government lowers the rate, but we believe that the rate after the change is too high. The reason for the additional tax is that it contributes to the compliance of taxpayers with the disclosure obligation under the law. Providing false or incomplete information to taxpayers can usually lead to tax advantages, and the imposition of additional taxes is a reasonable penalty. The Party of Progress considers that the justification cannot be used in the same way when the authorities already have the information in question. That is why we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a maximum amount of additional tax in cases where the authorities already hold the information when it is reported from other sources. The maximum amount is set at NOK 10000.’ The government also assesses the reverse charge obligation in the construction industry. We believe that the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with industry, should look at different models – and not just reject them – to see if we can find a simpler solution than the working group has proposed. Such a proposal could be put to the consultation so that the proposal would be dealt with more closely by the government than it has been proposed. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e603	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Thus, all 27 proposals, which are included in the setting, have been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e606	I can very much agree with the opening words of the representative Svendsen that there are not so many rematches we invite to revised. When we come to the tax section of the government's proposal, there is only one point on which we find the basis for promoting – together with others – a change in the government's structure. In the view of me and the Christian People’s Party, revision should not least be used to seek to correct the ‘errors from yesterday’, or changes in the terrain have been made to indicate that the map should also be changed, and in the case of housing savings for young people. I really think it's quite eye-catching that a red-green government, with the historical tradition at least some of these parties have had to be concerned that everyone should have the opportunity to get a dwelling, has a so-called degree of passive attitude in terms of the housing situation in this country, not least for young people. By increasing the equity requirement to 15 p.m., many groups have been further excluded from the housing market. In addition, the general picture is that housing prices are now getting so high that you are getting a classed housing community. It surprises me that there is so much loss in a red-green government at this point. I should like to see what a red-green opposition had said if there was a non-socialist government that had been held responsible in the same situation. Then I think you'd have seen quite different adjectives than what we now see the red-green describe the situation with. Against this background, we – together with other opposition parties – are promoting changes to proposals in this respect, in order at least to contribute where we can, on the tax side, namely by ensuring that housing savings for young people are strengthened. In general terms, in relation to the government's work, or lack of work, in order to provide housing for many, we will come back to it on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e622	There are no others who have the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox As announced, there will now be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e630	The size is ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e813	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e823	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e1906	To Section XI, paragraph 13, second paragraph, first sentence, an alternative proposal has been made. That is proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law of 19 November 2004 No. 73 on bookkeeping [[Booking Act]] Alternatively, between the nomination of Section XI, paragraph 13, first sentence, and this proposal, the Committee shall vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e1925	It is then voted on the Committee's position on the third paragraph of Section 4-4 of XV. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e1939	The Committee shall also vote for the position of XI and XV, and I-X, XII-XIV and XVI-XIX.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e1949	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e1959	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e1967	During the debate, Mr Kambe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law of 19 November 2004 No. 73 on bookkeeping [[Booking Act]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e1994	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposal No. 3, by Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Progress Party and Left proposal No. 4, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 5, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 6 to 10 by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 11-13, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 14–27, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14-27, from the left. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e2359	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the right. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e2451	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-10, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No 27 June 2008 62 on an individual pension scheme is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e2587	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a maximum amount of additional tax in cases where the authorities already hold the information when it is reported from other sources. The maximum amount shall be set at 10000 kroner.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e2602	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e2635	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e2666	There is a vote on Amendment No 2, tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to await the introduction of sanctions after the Storting has discussed the overall issues of administrative sanctions as an instrument.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3837	Alternatively, the B II Paragraphs 10–4 of the adjustment are added. 1 new second sentence and proposal No 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: 'In Act No 13 June 1980 24 on Equation Management is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3868	It shall be added to D II and III. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3883	It's going to be over G. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3897	It's going to be over A, C, E and F and the rest of B and D.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3907	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3917	Law decisions will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget. The vote on the motion for a resolution will therefore be taken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 to 4 completed and
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3933	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3944	There is no doubt that, as usual, government accounts are comprehensive and provide a solid insight into Norwegian government finances. There are only a few very short numbers from the message. The oil-corrected government deficit for 2011 was 94.1 billion. kr. That's $4.9 billion. kr lower than in the newly aged budget, adopted last December. If we proceed to our money on the book, we see that the book value of the Staten pension fund abroad at the end of 2011 was NOK 3 307.9 billion. That's almost 230 billion. kr more than at the end of 2010. We also have the State pension fund Norway. Here the figures show that from the end of 2010 until the end of 2011 the capital has decreased by 5.4 billion. kr, and must be seen as a result of a somewhat disrupted year in the stock and interest market. Nevertheless, in 2011, overall, revenue and expenditure of the nation went better than expected — or feared — if you like. In particular, industrial taxes and levies have been higher than estimated by last year's budget decision for a total of 40 billion. kr more. An application for income is made without a change in a tax rule. The farms in this country are doing just better than expected. That's good, but because the uncertainty is as great as it is now, the revenue can disappear as easily as they came. That is the main reason why it is also not possible to translate the increase in income into new and permanent expenditure without further delay. When the aftermath of the financial crisis and the consequences of record government debt continue to hit many countries very hard in these days, it is only to note that we are in a completely different situation here at home. We should be grateful for that. Both the natural resources and the Norwegian labour market mean that we have many jobs that contribute significant income, which, as the accounts show, benefits the community. But wealth also requires that we take responsibility and that we manage the values well, so that future generations can also benefit from them. Such a fortune does not come – and does not remain great – but it does matter how we all deal. Therefore, it is gratifying that there is a broad majority in the Storting that wants to make a significant profit in the accounts and transfer it to the State pension fund abroad. We must ensure that the extra resources we receive, including: from the oil, not being phased into such a pace that the economy goes beyond control, but that we are putting money into future generations. The contrast of many other European countries is enormous. I'm not going to say we're going to send our deepest thoughts to those who are basking with completely different budgets and accounting figures than we do in Norway, but it's at least worth discussing and thinking through in many contexts. I may not have mentioned it at the beginning, but the Progress Party has in the setting some special comments they stand alone about. Firstly, the largest opposition party believes that the results of the state accounts show that the budgetary balance should be less absorbed in the adoption of the budget. They said that in the fresh-age debate before Christmas, and they are now saying that. Then I just want to point out that it's an understanding they're all about. For – frankly – it’s not when you’re sitting with the fait accompli about how it’s been, that you should be judged by your ability to rule a country – the incomes and expenses. With all due respect, almost everyone can do it. What is demanding is to hold back — consider what is being done with the best professional estimates — when you do not know what the economic crisis, the terrain, will look like, when you have to take into account uncertainty, and when you have to take possible developments into account. There's no art to tip what's been. It's a lot more demanding to tap into what things are going to be like. Here it would have been possible – what to say – to engage in a major political debate on major issues, but I have no intention of contributing to it, except to point out that there are more things that make the Norwegian national accounts a good professional money management. The figures also show that we have a large impact on the expenditure side, but we are bombing quite heavily on the income side. It is very natural in a country that has large varying revenues from natural resources and that is also very dependent on how it works in the international economy. I therefore recommend that the Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3970	The President has to comment that the government accounts are interesting, but we have now actually addressed case No. 5, which is adjourned by the Financial Committee on the Financial Market Communication, where Mr Micasen is also the rapporteur-in-chief. But he has now spent his time making arguments that belong to the next case. We will jointly find out how we solve this, but in any case the next speaker is Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who hopefully then asked for the floor for case no. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3973	President, for the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3978	The representative, Mr Syversen, has asked for the floor of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3981	I would suggest, if possible, that we deal fully with what the chairman of the committee spoke about, namely the state accounts, and that we go back to case No. 5 – if it is possible to do so without breaching the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e3986	We have the small dilemma that there aren't very many people in the hall. We have adopted a debate with considerably more people present, but when that is said, there is no reason to believe that we are getting a long debate on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox With the possible agreement of the Storting, although we are not formally decisive, the President is prepared to agree with the proposal of the representative, Mr Syversen, that we now proceed to the final consideration of case No. 6th@item: inlistbox In that case, there is not so long speaking time. If the members of the Financial Committee, who are mainly present in the Chamber, agree that we do it this way, we all do it as chairman of the Committee, and talk about case number. 6 – and come back to case no. 5th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4000	Thus, the first article on case No. 6 held. We'll see if we can get case number. 6, so that we can conclude it in line with the proposal of the Sevens and the agreement of the Committee, following the inspiration of the Chairman of the Committee. On the list of speakers to Case No. 6, which is now on my screen, Torgeir Mikalsen was the only recorded speaker. Is there any other person who wishes to speak on case No. Six? That's what the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen does – please. We're going to hope that's better order in the accounts than in the order of business in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4009	I think it was necessary to take the floor on this matter, not because I am dissatisfied with the situation in the Norwegian economy, but simply to point out some things – for us who remember how the debate was in the autumn of 2010, when we debated this budget. So we see that the state's revenue has increased by 14.9 pst in a year. It is a formidable situation, which explains a little of the reason Norway is doing very well when other countries are struggling. What's so important to point out is that we actually have an increase in income of 110 billion. From the date of adoption of the budget to the date of adoption of the accounts. So, the state has had 110 billion. kr more to manage income than you thought. That's an increase of 9.9 pst. In that perspective, the criticism of the President of the case against the Progress Party is completely misplaced, because he does not understand the criticism that we are making. What we're pointing at is, when you're bombing with 10 pst, it's kind of weird to think back to the debate in this room a year and a half ago. Then gave the impression that if one made budget changes that gave deviations of just a few billion dollars, it could lead to increased interest rates, increased inflation, greater unemployment and anything else that hurts in this world. So just a couple billion dollars in other assessments than the government put up to -- in a budget of nearly 1,000 billion. kr – could therefore control the Norwegian economy. Then we see that the Norwegian economy has been significantly different from what the government thought – without one having had these consequences. It says quite a lot about the judgement of the rapporteur and others from the red-green parties when they believe that marginal changes in the state budget will put the Norwegian economy at the forefront. So we've saved 108 billion. kr more in the oil fund than we thought. Nevertheless, one will also save even more in the 2012 budget, instead of looking at how an alternative could invest those resources in infrastructure development and other things that generate growth in the Norwegian economy. So we have created a situation in which, despite the increased room for action in the state budget – as this emerges from the government accounts – only financial positions abroad are still appropriate, not real investment in the mainland economy. That's the logic the Progress Party wants to challenge. So here we have a debate that is based on a rule of action, one that gives the impression that everything should be given priority in the state budget, while the realities are, as the rapporteur and others are well aware, that tens of billions of dollars are spent outside the state budget. But many of them will never have the opportunity to vote over – they just disappear out of the oil fund and into the Norwegian economy. Then this state account gives us a perspective that the next time we discuss the state budget for a year, we should be a little less blatant in claiming that anyone who has different wishes or suggestions compared to the government is automatically putting the Norwegian economy in control. This fasitant has shown us that. But this phase is not to be used as an argument that we can spend money on anything; we should continue to give careful priority. Therefore, it is important that this government tries to make the Norwegian economy more efficient than it has done, tries to make bureaucracy and government more efficient than it has done, and at the same time uses this space to facilitate growth-creating activity, such as infrastructure, research and tax policies. What we need to have a discussion about is how we use the space for action. What the government wants to have a discussion about is how to support what they propose, and not to have an alternative economic policy — or criticism. That kind of debate does not want the Progress Party to be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4030	As I have said before, the state accounts are a document that is undervalued, because we must always look at the budget and accounts in the context. This is the case in both private and public enterprises. There is, of course, a joyful state account we see, which has significantly higher revenues than what is budgeted. However, it also shows that there is a need to go further through the Ministry of Finance's models and calculations for the development of the Norwegian economy, which I have mentioned earlier. It's so big anomalies, and they're much bigger than most people expect the result to be in a economy as controlled and carefully debated as the Norwegian economy. So there's a point that I think the Ministry of Finance should put on memory. Otherwise, I have some comments on what the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party said. On the part of the Centre Party, we are very careful to use such strong words as the fact that some draft budgets ‘oversee the Norwegian economy’. This is a language that I don't think anyone's earned. What is important, however, is that, like the Norwegian economy now being organised, there is such a strong willingness to invest and the organisation of investments on Norwegian soil that it contributes to an activity that poses significant challenges in the overall business life and not least in the labour market in Norway. There would also have been an advantage if the Progress Party could be a little more involved in prioritizing – to be diplomatic – real resources that Norwegian society is deploying in developing our society. It will be very easy for one to say yes to large increases in different areas of society, which in total will give rise to these growth problems – which is one way to say it – and thus it will become less credible when one comes in retrospect and tries with symbolic measures to correct the growth problems that are. So there should be a bigger debate in this room about the consequences of the extremely high oil and gas investment we have today, seen in relation to other continental industries, and not least in relation to what is evolving in the world of work. Now that we've been through a spring with far more strikes and conflicts than before, it's been said that something of the underlying reason that a number of groups feel so lost in their pay and working conditions compared to other groups that they react with the natural weapon, which is strike. So my appeal to the Progress Party is to dry up saying something about what to say no to, and so it will be able to balance in a completely different way. Today, there is a volume in the oil and gas sector that goes far beyond what one should reasonably have in an economy that is to develop in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4047	My appeal goes to the Chair of the Financial Committee. It is okay that he took the wrong case, but he said that he took the floor in a matter in which he was alone to have the word, so he made a provocative statement that was at least not in the spirit of the committee. It is my appeal to the President in relation to similar statements later, that he does not add up to a debate when we have agreed that it should not be a debate. But we can continue the debate, like that. Then I will challenge Torgeir Micasen on his bank security about the economy – whether he is so sure that the government has the only solution to how to run the Norwegian economy. It seems there is no other solution. It seems that this is simply heaven – the economic policy of the Workers' Party and the government. No, it's not like that. There are other solutions. There are, for example: an alternative rule of action, where you can distinguish consumption from investment. It goes to the representative Lundteg. When we spend money on investments, it's future value creation, it's to invest for growth in the Norwegian economy. Then we actually want consumption to increase no more than GDP growth. This is a reasonable rule of action, not to estimate 4 pst. The return – and whether the return is 3 pst. Or 5 pst., it doesn't matter, we use 4 pst. in any case and say that it is responsible. Now we are facing a major challenge in the international market, and the financial market notification is coming later. It can then be seen that next year the stock exchanges may fall between 10–15–20–30 pst., who knows – Europe is struggling. Then all of a sudden it's not 4 pst. longer-term, there is an average return over the last few years. If the Labour Party and the government parties are able to cut down what will be necessary to get back to the level they say is responsible, i.e. an average return of 4 pst.? Of course they don't. Nor will the Party of Presidents be able to do so. We can't cut the consumption, if we don't make a rule that we shouldn't increase the consumption more than the growth in the Norwegian economy, and then we have to invest to increase that growth. That's exactly what we're going to do, while today's rule of action is simply paralysis, so we don't get enough investment in infrastructure to generate growth in the Norwegian economy. This is what the Progress Party will do in Norway in one year!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4061	The next speaker is Ketil Solvik-Olsen. The number is 10 minutes, but there's no requirement to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4064	I just want to clear up some misunderstandings, which aren't really misunderstandings, but deliberately misinformation. The representative Lundtigen believes that the Progress Party must at least show some places where we cut, and gives the impression that we are a party that spends money in all areas, without prioritizing. If the representative Lundtigen had joined the state budget in the last few years, he would have seen that the Progress Party net cuts the expenditure to the state. But we're giving tax cuts that are bigger than our spending cuts, so we're spending a little more oil money balancing the budget than the government is doing. But there's a net cut on the cost side. With the State budget of the Advance Party, we had not had a government budget of over 1 000 billion. DKK but less than 1000 billion. kr – so we show that we are prioritizing. The representative Lundtägen definitely disagrees with many of those priorities, and that's fine, I'm comfortable with that. But giving the impression that we're increasing the cost is going to be a completely wrong production. Within the re-priorities we are doing, we are able to give priority to road maintenance, increased health care efforts, increased health care efforts, while cutting in a number of other areas. In part of this debate, therefore, an impression from the government is that it prioritises everything within the state budget and that the Progress Party is irresponsible when we propose a new method of financing. Our argument is that we're using exactly the systems and concepts that the government has devised. When the representative Micaelsen repeatedly says that this government is giving priority to everything within the state budget, while the Progress Party has to have two taps into the oil fund, he shows a complete disregard for what the government's budgetary policy is. The government spends $10 billion outside today’s rule of action — for example. to aeroplanes and airlines, to build aerodromes, to build power plants, to transport electricity. In the revised budget, which we are going to deal with Friday, we are going to adopt a seed fund to be set up with money allocated outside the action rule, and it is not to be included in the budget balance. But there is no doubt about money that will be added to the Norwegian economy. The local government bank will be provided with money, without counting it in the balance sheet, simply because such things define one as a real estate repositioning. Then it must be possible to have a discussion about what is really the purpose of asset repositioning. Is it the most important way to relocate our wealth, that is, our oil money, to give money to operate an airline that loses money year after year? I rather want my children to have better roads than to have an airline that is losing, but we obviously disagree. It may be a priority for the Workers' Party, but the Progress Party does not agree. That is why the Progress Party has been a little surprised at a party like SV, which says that it is now important to bet on renewables and to bet on collectives. I agree that we have an action rule that allows oil investments and aircraft to get oil money outside of that rule, but once you start investing in the railway, a rule of action must limit you. That is why the Progress Party has made proposals in Stortinget, where we are actually inspired by today's finance minister's ideas, which he has written chronicles about in the Evening Post on 12 February 2008, where he believed that state companies such as the Railway Agency and the State Road Service should be reorganized, converted into state limited liability companies and operated in the same way as Avinor. Then you'd get a more forward-looking road development, a more forward-looking railway development. It's a little strange when the government, in a debate like this, later like a treating everything the same, when a obviously treats infrastructure development in a completely different way, and where you let oil money benefit someone, but not others. We want a debate on who will benefit. We believe that road and rail are at least as important as building airports and not least operating airlines. That is why this debate is important. When the rapporteur draws it up, we respond to it – although it is actually part of another debate, where we are actually going to deal with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4073	What is the activity of the Norwegian economy is usually a combination of what the public uses and what the private uses. It is true that the Progress Party has submitted proposals on the use of public resources, which involve net cuts in public expenditure, and there are two areas in which the Progress Party mainly cuts. There is international solidarity and food production in Norway. That is what Mr Solvik-Olsen said. There are different policy assessments of how we're going to spend the community's money. The party to the progress does not have facilities for solidarity – this with international involvement, food security and food production. But what was the main point of my post is what's outside the state budget, the activity that happens in Norway, where the state is not the one who pays or buys the services. In this area, we see today that as a result of two main drivers: a very low interest rate and a very high oil and gas price, it leads to private sector activity in the development of property and in the supply industry to oil and gas, which is so large that it causes pain problems elsewhere in society. It's in that area the Progress Party is very remote. They want to organize these things and don't have an understanding that you should dampen them here. What is now the major challenge is to build Norway in a long-term way, to facilitate a comprehensive, modern business life based on the fact that there is homogeneity between people in Norway. That's what's really going to be put to a test. When the salary level in Norway on the pay side is 155 pst. of the situation of our main trading partners, it is to those degrees a demanding situation. So what we need to focus on in terms of soundness in the economy is the public sector, but we need to focus much more on the framework conditions that govern private activities, so that we have a sensible interaction between public and private activities, so that we can ensure the long-term sustainability of business and the quality of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4082	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4085	I agree with many of the concerns that Lundtägen raises, but I do not understand why the criticism is directed at the Progress Party, when his party is in government and can do something about this. We are very pleased with the oil report that the government finally presented, because it was largely influenced by the policy the Progress Party had argued for for seven years, and fortunately not by the policy that the Red-Greens had been fighting for seven years. However, if Lundtigen disagrees with the oil policy that is being pursued today, he should make proposals in the Grand Duchy to change it – not blame it for the possible negative aspects of it on the Progress Party, while he himself greatly enjoys the oil revenues he receives and can use in the State budget. I fully agree that we need to do something to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. For this reason, the Progress Party has wanted to improve the rules on depreciation. That is why we wanted to adjust some environmental rules, which means that today industry is moving out instead of investing in Norway. That is why the Progress Party has said that we should use a little more of our oil wealth to invest in infrastructure, so that the industry in Norway can compete better with the rest of the world, so that Norwegian engineers do not have to sit in a car queue, but are actually at work or be with the family in order to improve the quality of life. This is true of the red-greens, because you don't want to change the investment methods. So it's more important that airlines operate and that airports are built outside the state budget than that we bet on better roads. When you know that you get 3.5 kroner back for every penny you invest in the main road network, it is obvious that placing a little more of the oil wealth in Norwegian infrastructure would benefit both the economy today and the future economy. When we know that the profitability of accelerating the construction of the intercity triangle around Oslo would improve by 22 billion. kr, it goes without saying that it would make sense to take a discussion about how to manage the oil wealth in order to improve the Norwegian economy, and not just invest it abroad. Moreover, in the case of international solidarity, it is a little special that the representative Lundtigen raises himself to judge the views of others as to what solidarity is. The Progress Party also has a lot of care for people who are not doing well. We also want to improve it. But the Progress Party and I don't think giving gifts to corrupt regimes is the way to do it, when you can manage oil funds, which help them to invest in a financial market that helps to develop business and industry. The same applies to food production. I'm from Jären. I know how important this is. But I don't think agriculture should be an employment project to look after old-fashioned structures. This is about getting more efficient production. It is then necessary to apply the subsidy schemes, in order to allow agriculture to act as an industrial activity and not as a protected holding, as Lundtegen sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4103	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over. We go back to the debate on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The President understands that the Stortinget has previously adopted the debate, and so we can go straight to the right post.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4108	I'm sorry about the little riot that happened here instead. I don't know exactly what happened, but we'll get back to that on a later occasion. Now to the Financial Market Communication's proceedings in the Financial Committee of the Storting and the proceedings here in the Chamber today. The Communication is a Communication on the development and regulation of financial markets in 2011. Overall, the notification provides a very useful insight into both national and international financial markets. Fortunately, this case also shows that there is relatively broad consensus among the political parties on many of the important issues in the Norwegian financial market and its regulation. The Committee also shares a relatively good understanding that the aftermath of the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 still characterises international financial markets and, to an even greater extent, real economic developments in many countries. Government finances are severely weakened in several places, millions of people are unemployed. There is considerable uncertainty about future developments. The situation is fragile. The concern that continued in financial markets in 2011 has also been a strong reminder that the Norwegian economy is also vulnerable to what is happening internationally. At the same time, the Committee notes that the Norwegian regulation of financial markets is fundamentally good and has proved robust in the context of the international financial crisis. Norway has taken advantage of the lessons learned from our own banking crisis 20 years ago. After the banking crisis, as we know, we made greater demands on banks, improved financial legislation, strengthened supervision and modernised the deposit guarantee scheme. Together with order in government finances, contributions included: the lessons learnt from the time when the Norwegian economy was saved for many of the worst results of the international financial crisis a few years ago. One thing is clear: Norway has proven much better through this economic crisis than many other countries. GDP has now grown in nine consecutive quarters, employment is increasing, and unemployment is low compared to many countries. But although much has been done, there is still much to be done in the financial market field. One of the reasons for this is that we have a financial industry internationally operating with concepts such as ‘financial innovation’ – many will call it creativity – which means that we are constantly pushing the boundaries of what kind of products and what kind of regulation does not catch up with these things until after. That's why there's been a number of things done here at home in the last few years. We've tightened up the rules for bonuses in the financial sector. It was unpopular among many, but it was true, because it was largely an incentive for excessive risk-taking among many actors who had their wages directly linked to the level of risk taken. The legislation on so-called structured savings products has been tightened up. It is currently in practice a ban on sales to individuals. This really took too much time. Those who were supposed to take care of this did not do their job to a large enough extent, and many things are now in the justice system. But new rules have come into place, and hopefully we've cleaned this up, so that fewer people get into trouble later. Action has been taken to strengthen the consumer side of the Financial Supervisory Authority. Furthermore, tomorrow in the Grand Duchy, we have a proposal for a representative on the subject of the Financial Complaint, in which a broad majority goes in to see if it is possible to see whether it can also be organised even more efficiently and better for consumers than it is today. So we continue to strengthen the regulatory framework around the industry, and that's good. There are many things that can be said about the evolution that will now come. There are many new regulations going on. A majority of the Committee subscribes to the government's willingness to exploit the national space of action we have to create a framework for banks and financial institutions in Norway, which enables us to stand firmer than the minimum requirements imposed by the EU and EEA systems. That's good. It has turned out before that it has been very successful. In addition, there is already a discussion about the financial industry in Norway and internationally should contribute more to the community through increased taxation — for example, in Norway. as in many other countries, financial services sold via the financial industry are in practice exempt from VAT — and it supports a majority, including the Christian People's Party, about it. But we see a much more waiting attitude from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. I think it's a little surprising. I thought we in this room agreed that it is important that all industries, regardless of what they sell, contribute to a large enough extent. Now that we have a system — perhaps in a few years’ time — that can help balance this, I believe Norway should also use the space for action. With this, I recommend – this time – the correct setting. I'm sure you'll regret the confusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4134	There is a great deal of agreement about a lot of things in this case. I think that's positive. It is important that there is a clear political signal for such an important industry, and it is also important that there is a consensus on reality in this area. The financial and banking industries are a central part of a well-functioning economy. It is important for a modern economy to have a credit market that actually works, that has confidence among people, and that has confidence among investors. It allows for safe saving and efficient lending opportunities. Again, it is important for many people to realize their housing dreams, their dreams of their own car, that business can have opportunities to invest in business both locally and globally, and for people with money in their hands it is possible to save for the future. All of this is important in order for us to have the best possible experience. In recent years, we have experienced unrest in financial markets. We've had a debt bubble, and we've had a housing bubble. It first resulted in a financial crisis and now in a debt crisis. It's probably because we've experienced a distance between the monetary values that have been out there and the real values that have been on the ground. So it's believed that things were worth more in dollars and dollars, or dollars, pounds, depending on what currency you want to use, than what the market is actually willing to pay for it today. Access to cheap credit has been one of these things, but there are also other reasons. We now experience a tough period, where this huge debt that has been accumulated is to be rebalanced, so that the values that are at the bottom correspond to the monetary values that you are willing to pay for. There is a rather heavy and dramatic fight going on in many countries that lenders see that they will lose money, borrowers will lose money, or lose the real values they are sitting on, and in many countries taxpayers will also lose some money. This situation is not uniform. There are different situations in most countries. In some countries, the banking system has been collapsing, which has made taxpayers pay a price; in others, politicians themselves have been irresponsible. This has happened across policy lines and across geography. But this conflict we will experience that it continues to play between the different stakeholders in a society that, of course, wants to lose as much as possible and apply it to others instead. Then we hope that the crisis packages with which the EU is now working – at the latest yesterday when it was Spain, but earlier for Greece – will be as good as possible and will have confidence in the market that will restore peace, and one can begin to focus on the future and new investments rather than on how to balance old losses. The reasons for the bias are, as I mentioned, access to cheap credit, but there are also partial political decisions in some countries that have made this work out, by wishing that people who do not have the ability to pay would still be housing owners. By shifting the repayment period and having only interest payments, people have taken up more loans than they would actually serve when the time to pay off arose. In some countries, there is also the possibility of going away from all debts by going from it an owner – as in the United States: if you go from the house, you don't have to take the debt with you. It makes it more interesting to gamble in a market – one doesn't want to go down on its own. The only thing you lose is the money you may have paid in the meantime. In Norway, this is quite different. I think that's also good -- it makes you think twice before taking up big loans, because the debt will last for a while. Then we have to make sure that it doesn't mean that you're in a debt situation for the rest of your life if it goes wrong. In other countries, there is a market that has come out crooked, a market that has deliberately or unconsciously abused regulatory gaps, and which means that political regulation must be better than it has been. All in all, this means that financial products have been mispriced. There has been a lack of transparency. This has resulted in good and bad loans being mixed together, and people have paid for these loans as if they were all good. Thus, a priced risk is wrong. It is an important task for political authorities to contribute to its failure to do so. We must help to ensure transparency in the market, so that people make decisions based on a real basis and not on a misguided basis. Another area where policy has failed is that of the EU, where a single currency has been introduced, which has enabled political authorities in some countries to borrow at a much lower rate than they have previously received. In some southern European countries in particular, the money press has been used to pay for previous loans. Thus, a high inflation rate has been observed, but also high interest rates. Because interest rates have been so high, people have been willing to borrow money to these countries, because it's the real interest rate at the end. This old recipe doesn't work when you're in a euro-cooperation, because then you can no longer print your own money. But one has had very good access to cheap credit because one has had an EU interest rate base instead of individual national interest rates. Thus, many of these countries have taken up large loans, but when they have to pay back, they do not have the opportunity to print money and remove it by inflation. This results in a global debt and financial crisis – for various reasons, but it still affects us all. The situation we are now experiencing underlines the importance of having predictable and good market regulation. It is important both for customers and for banks, and it is important that that regulation ensures trust. The Progress Party will warn against saying that things are going so well in Norway. In the previous debate, one stressed that the oil industry is one of the main reasons why Norway is doing well. We must avoid the illusion that Norway is now going so well that we can start tightening up individual industries and believe that they will still be doing well. We need to ensure that the industries in Norway have good competitive conditions against their competitors abroad. We must avoid treating Norwegian institutions worse than their competitors. It is unfortunate that the signals given in this case concerning stricter regulation of Norwegian banks compared to foreign banks, not least because many Norwegian banks compete directly with their Scandinavian friends in the Norwegian market. Swedish and Danish banks have approx. 30 pst. market share, and it goes without saying that if Swedish and Danish banks can raise capital cheaper and simpler than Norwegians, they will be able to offer loans to Norwegian customers in Norway cheaper than their Norwegian competitors. It's not lucky. We must ensure that the risk weight and the capital adequacy requirements are coordinated across borders. In what the government is now adding, I fear that Norwegian banks will pay a higher price in the market. This means that their margins have to be reduced if they are to maintain their market share, and it is in the long run that they will have a lower competitive situation. In the long term, banks also live on the margins they have on their loans — deposits and loans — and then we must not destroy Norwegian banks so that they lose the margins they could have. However, let me stress that the banks have a heavy responsibility to act responsibly, both in terms of ‘normal’ loans for housing and cars, and in terms of the sale of financial products. Especially lately, there have been some issues around. The sum for the banks is that good regulation and supervision are part of the whole thing that they have to live with. I'm not arguing that we should get rid of it, but we need to ensure equivalence and equal conditions with the competing countries. It is important for competition, but regulation is also important, as I said, because the impact of a collapse in banking affects society in general and can affect taxpayers and the state budget. However, let me say that we are skeptical about the way the Financial Supervisory Authority has changed its policy in the last year. They have in practice tightened their housing lending policy. That they now require one to have 15 pst. equity, we consider unfortunate. Many suggest that, across what was the objective, we have had inappropriate results. What we see is that as long as the Financial Supervisory Authority regulates residential loans thoroughly, but consumer loans much less thoroughly, we get a spillover effect, because some young customers go into the consumer loan market and get the equity they need. It's more expensive loans, they're less regulated, and there's a lower customer relationship between the borrower and the lender. Therefore, it would have been an advantage if the banks could behave as before, carefully evaluate the individual, look at the ability to pay and lend when they thought it was responsible. It is especially when the House Bank can stand on the outside of the Finansinspektionen's domain and provide the loans that private banks cannot. The progress party has no faith that the Husbank is better suited than usual, private banks to assess the credit and the ability to pay the individual. What we need in this matter is a new housing policy, not a new policy from the Financial Supervisory Authority. We need to ensure better access to land, better regulations that are less demanding, and a better BSU system. It is not the Financial Supervisory Authority that is responsible for managing housing policy in Norway, as it is now. It should have been big business and government. We from the Progress Party find – but on behalf of all the opposition parties, I believe – that despite too many contributions from the Storting through proposals, today's government has not been willing to make a single change of relevance to improve the housing market. And there must be a way of how long a government should be able to sit, before it promotes a housing report for the Storting. What is also a consequence of what the Financial Supervisory Authority has done is that people who have equity, who can enter the housing market, can now speculate about buying homes for rent. They know that the rental market will increase as a result of the failure of young people at the start-up stage to enter this market. This actually worsens the situation – giving the opposite effect. The housing companies have good times because the rental prices go up and the interest rate is still low. It actually makes it even more expensive for young first-time settlers, who are forced to sit on the outside. They are not allowed to save in owner-occupied dwellings at a record interest rate, but must enter a rental market which, relatively speaking, is record expensive. It will eat of the equity that they should actually use to pay down on the owner-occupancy. So, about complicated savings products. There's more cases going on in court, and we're not going to sue here. People shouldn't buy products that they don't understand. It should be a rule of thumb. When people come to a bank and are offered a product that they don't fully understand, the spinal reflex should be that they say no thanks. At the same time, we know that there have been cases where eager bankers have led people to believe that the risk is less than it is, that the product is simpler than it is. One sees that people pledge both the house and the car to buy the product that seems too good to be true. And that's usually the same thing. That's why it's important that we intervene and intervene with the unprofessional actors, who trick people into buying products and taking a risk far greater than what they themselves are aware of. The work of the Christian People's Party in its proposal for a representative – although the Progress Party does not support all the proposals – must continue, once again because it is important to ensure confidence in the market. Finally, Norway is doing very well. The oil industry has tripled its investment in ten years. In the election, the importance of the financial crisis package from the government, as the Stortinget decided a few years ago, was emphasised. It gave a very 'boost' in the Norwegian economy, which everyone thinks is positive. But we should remember that this year alone, the oil industry contributes six financial crisis packages into the Norwegian economy, in addition to what they did ten years ago – six financial crisis packages. This should say a little about how much we should thank the oil industry, but also about what concerns we should have if the oil price goes down and oil investments stop – what consequences it will have for the Norwegian economy. Then I think we'll see that much of what's happened in Norway in recent years is not about red-green politics, but about oil prices. The government should be a little more ground-based and reality-oriented about what are the real causes of today's situation, rather than making this a policy. What makes me particularly concerned is that we see a steady increase in the wealth of the country abroad, while the debt ratio of the municipalities and private households in Norway is increasing accordingly. It'll be an ever-increasing debt pressure. That means that if interest rates start to rise, while the oil price goes down, it'll be harder for people to serve this debt. The municipalities will have problems. Then all of a sudden we get a completely different situation. We must then be more effective at stimulating business and other economic activity in Norway – not to say that Norway should always go ahead because we can afford it, and because we have stricter regulations, stricter laws, than our competitors have. All in all: A lot is good, let me finally underline it. That is why I hope that we will continue to cooperate well on how best to regulate the banking industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4187	There are certainly exciting times to discuss the financial market notification in. I think it will be for many years to come with the challenges in Europe. So I think you just have to attach the seat belt and see how the world evolves. In this context, it is extremely important that the Ministry of Finance and the Council of State focus on both influencing and monitoring what is happening outside. I think you can quickly make some choices that can lead a little wrong – if you don't make the right choices. I'll come back a little bit later. I would like to comment a little on what I and especially the previous speeches were about, this with housing. It is very easy to say that the Norwegian housing market is probably going to click one day. The development that has been going on is probably hardly sustainable over a long period of time. At the same time – as the central bank manager also said in the hearing – there is very little today to suggest that the housing market is going to fall. We have a low interest rate, a high level of employment and good growth in the economy – all moving towards an upward trend. As I have said in a previous case: Through the requirement we have for equity, and as the Financial Supervisory Authority has introduced, 15 p.m., we are actually on the move to put an entire group outside the housing market. We are not at all sceptical about equity – it should be – but the question is: Is it the bank's own responsibility, or is it the authority's responsibility to govern this? The assumption by the authorities of responsibility for setting rules need not necessarily stimulate responsibility outside the system. This, I think, is a discussion that we might have jumped a little slightly over, but that we'll probably get back to. Then we have the life companies and their challenges. That's what we've been dealing with earlier. The combination of increased life expectancy, annual interest rate guarantee, low interest rates, new EU capital requirements through Solvency II and the fact that Norway lacks a government bond market of a certain size in many ways poses a very special challenge for life companies in Norway. Here we note that the financial market message is simply for new measures. I would encourage the Minister of Finance to resume the Banking Law Commission and the work it did, and follow up some of the measures they proposed, perhaps especially on free police. So to Norwegian regulations of the banks. In fact, we have to admit that since the early 1990s, the Norwegian regulatory regime has worked quite well. We have repeatedly said that in debates. We have noted that the Minister of Finance has repeatedly said that there should be a Nordic harmonisation of new legislation, and we believe it is absolutely central that we do not impose any special regulations on Norwegian banks that will lead to banks from markets that are less regulated than Norwegian ones perhaps starting to take over the Norwegian market. However, we also see in the position that specific measures are being proposed, and we will emphasise that there will be harmonisation of rules, regulations and supervisory practices in the Nordic region. This should be a particular responsibility of the Minister of Finance to follow up. We would like to point out that the government, through both the Financial Market Communication and the international work being done, and the national proposals that are being consulted, have a wide range of proposals that are suitable for ensuring financial stability. There we share the government’s goal of securing a strong, robust and secure banking market – of course you do. At the same time, however, there is a question of the extent to which specific measures can be taken and whether the consequences of such specific measures have been discussed. The right considers it important that banks build soundness in order to meet stricter capital requirements and become more robust and have supported government requests for, inter alia. reduced dividends to contribute to increased equity. However, when the government additionally announces increased payments to Bank Insurance Funds, considers introducing increased taxes and levies on profits and salaries, considers taxing added value generated in the financial sector and introducing countercyclical capital buffers, as well as reduced dividends and special-purpose capital adequacy requirements, the Right is committed to asking the government to also ensure that there is a balance between the requirements and the ability of banks to finance Norwegian business. What we're not missing is that the financial institutions are also the lifeblood of society. We want to live with ups and downs in society, and regulations are always a balance between creating security for development and the ability to finance future economic growth. It is a difficult balance, it must all be recognized, and it is seen in those degrees downwards in Europe. A little to what's happening internationally: in many ways you can see indications that what's happening in Europe now is that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I think everyone wants a secure financing system, but what we see now is that it has been a huge concentration. There's been a drive towards larger units in the system, and all of a sudden you have institutions that are so big that they fall under the term 'too big to fail', that is, they'll tear the whole community apart if they start to stay together. It's a huge challenge that I haven't seen any very clear solutions to, and I don't see a quick fix here either. That's why I initially said that I think this is a debate we're going to have for many years. But what surprises me is that, in Europe, the focus is now more on banks not having to end than on maintaining competition in the financial sector. There's no doubt that many of the problems we have now are driven by the fact that we've got institutions that are so big and so dominant that the social system doesn't tolerate them going beyond the end. The paradox is that on the day the institution has grown so large, it is perceived to have State guarantees out in the loan market, and receives significantly cheaper funding than, for example, the small savings bank that exists in some valley in Norway, as there is not a problem at all. Of course, it's a local problem, but it's not system-critical if such a small savings bank is going to end up. Here, in fact, I think the long-term solution is to focus on the trend that the whole market has to drive so big units that society is at risk of breaking up with them. Then we have a really big problem. The right financial fraction was a trip in London and looked at the concentration there. The four-five largest institutions in England now have administrative capital equal to 80 pst. of the market and they have administrative capital equal to four times GDP. It goes without saying that there is a very big challenge here that we are not going to regulate nationally, but that we should go into close international cooperation to find good solutions. Because, as I said, the financial industry is also the lifeblood of society, and without a well-functioning financial system, we will weaken society's capacity for growth and development. At least we can't afford that in today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4213	The Norwegian economy is solid and good, but requires constant economic governance and high preparedness in view of the serious situation in the international economy, not least in the euro zone. Millions of people are out of work in Europe, and young people are hit extra hard. Seventeen million. is out of work, more than every 10 European workers, and that is 22 pst. youth leave. This is the price the EU has to pay for the implementation of monetary union, with a single currency that has never been sustainable. Monetary union has been both the precondition for the crisis we are seeing today and has made the crisis much more difficult to deal with for the Member States. Europe now has both a financial crisis, a euro crisis and a social crisis. The consequences are that those who have the least have to pay the most and cut off in the welfare we have never seen in Europe before. We don't know what's going on. But for Norway, we hardly notice anything about the crisis. We have strong economic growth, low interest rates and low unemployment. The situation in Norway is partly due to the fact that the oil sector contributes to the country’s solid economy and strong government finances, but also to the fact that over time the government has pursued a firm economic policy based on the Nordic welfare model, smaller differences, redistribution, economic growth and development. In Norway, the financial crisis was met with economic growth and an active policy to keep demand up, as opposed to the narrow strategy we now see in the euro area countries. There are two aspects of the situation in Norway that I would like to comment on. One is our unilateral dependence on oil. The oil sector is contributing positively by providing us with a very good economic foundation and keeping unemployment down, and is contributing negatively by being a major cost driver in the economy. It contributes to a two-part economy. It is the opinion of the SV that, in order to avoid further strengthening of this two-part division and increasing the pressure on the competitive sector, action must be taken to reduce the speed of the oil sector. The rate of extraction and the rate of investment must be mitigated over time. This can be done by the distribution of licences and by the intervention of the tax system. The same applies to the financial sector, including: is protected by VAT on services and is also a driver of the economic pressure. It is also a sector that needs to be subject to the same framework conditions as the rest of the economy. The second major challenge is the situation on the housing market. Households' debt is larger than ever, and it is related to mortgages. The price level of dwellings in central districts is higher than ever. The question is whether we are approaching a crack in the housing sector with a strong fall in housing prices. This is why it is right that action be taken to prevent the situation. At the same time, something needs to be done for young people, which makes it increasingly difficult to obtain housing. The threshold for start-ups, young families, is becoming insurmountable. It is therefore necessary to establish mechanisms and to take measures to improve the situation of young people in the establishment phase. Here, a combination of measures is needed to stop the strong price growth, more dwellings and more dwellings need to be built, not least. At the same time, the offer of start-up loans, start-up loans must be improved and expanded. We have to put in place schemes that make it easier to go from rent to ownership. The measures that the government will take to prevent the crisis by increasing the capital requirements of banks, strengthening the banks' hedge funds, are quite correct. Preventing a crisis situation is easier than repairing it once the crisis has occurred. We're in a situation where we have the ability to prevent, and we need to use that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4232	As many people have experienced, the financial market is crucial in everyday life to make a society work. The situation we are now living in internationally is an economic fashion that developed at the end of the 1980s and 1990s with considerable speculation, and which we are now gradually seeing the brutal consequences of. What is gratifying is the international institution that should contribute to stability, namely the limited liability company IMF – because that is what it is. It's a corporation and not an institution in line with the UN. That limited liability company, the IMF, is now moving in a different direction. It's, as I've said before, happy that they're now going in for, among other things. shall be able to use capital controls, i.e. away from free flow to a more regulated flow of capital. It is gratifying that one is now in an economic policy mode where there is a more conservative risk assessment and increased capital adequacy requirements. It is hoped that even real economic assessments will come even further to the distortion of the financial economy in which we have lived and are inside, where there is a lack of contact between the real economy and the financial economy. As the Progress Party said, we are now facing a loss. Who's going to lose, and when is someone going to lose? The Party of Progress called it ‘rebalanced’. That's a great word. What's at the heart of this is that someone is going to lose money. In many cases, this means that one will go bankrupt. Therefore, it is gratifying for the government to say about the Financial Crisis Committee that it must now be followed up. It is incredibly ideologically interesting in this setting that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left do not support the follow-up. It's a very central question that we're facing in the future. However, it is an overall committee that wishes to make use of the space for action allowed by the international rules, so that Norwegian legislation contributes as much as possible to sound financial institutions in Norway, but the Right and the Progress Party are jumping off on the fact that it is an advantage that increased capital adequacy requirements in banks can be introduced while the economy is in good hands and that one therefore supports that the new capital requirements should be assessed in Norway rather than in other countries. As a result, the reserve capital will become a buffer for times to come. Norway is now a safe port. So we can go a little bit further than others. It's a competitive advantage. It is also interesting to note that the Right is alone in a comment saying that they will await the international processes before concluding on and to what extent specific requirements should be set for national systemically important financial institutions. I would recommend the Right Group not only to travel to London, but also to the Bank for International Settlements in Switzerland and get the experience they have gained on this serious issue. I think it's pretty strong that the right to those degrees are the regrettators at this point, which is the international recognition that we have to look at in another way. Otherwise, it is an overall committee, and it is joyous, which refers to the role of small savings banks. Small savings banks play a key role in a number of communities. It is therefore very gratifying that an overall committee points out the importance of having framework conditions that do not systematically benefit the large commercial and savings banks over the smaller savings banks. It's a work that you have to bring with you in all the regulatory design, because it's easy that it leads to demands that go in the disfavor of the minors. It is also important to continue the work of the Statistical Central Bureau to develop statistics on the significant distributions of gifts from savings banks, in order to bring about the great benefits of society brought about by the form of savings banks. Therefore, there are important issues to be addressed. It's positive that the government wants to go into debt records, and it's positive that we've got a demand for 15 pst. equity by way of housing purchase. It has to be followed up with related instruments to correct the market, so that we get a whole in it. But it is very gratifying that the government has supported what the Financial Supervisory Authority does in that area. It creates solidity, and it's solidity we need more of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4255	There's a lot of consensus in the committee around this. I also think it is a good message that the government has presented to Stortinget. It is no exaggeration to say that what is in correct bureaucratic form at the beginning of the message is so absolute. It is said here that if the financial system does not work well, the whole economy will suffer great damage. Mobilising financial stability is therefore an important task for the governance. It's dry, but it's true. We have been committed in Norway to having prospective professionals and politicians who have made sure that, after a financial crisis at the end of the 1980s that went hard on the banks, we have had one, to say the same, with Lundtigen, more conservative view of this, which has helped us in the crises we have had in the past. For the Christian People's Party, we have met this message precisely because we have previously promoted a separate Document No. Eight proposals, in December 2010, on measures to combat a new financial crisis. We are pleased to see that the government in this communication is following up several of the proposals we have made there, including: cooperation with the Nordic countries on the early introduction of a countercyclical buffer and that it may be appropriate for Norway to go ahead in terms of capital requirements vis-à-vis banks, given the situation in the Norwegian economy. We note that the possibility of a so-called activity tax for the financial industry is mentioned. We are working internationally in several areas for this, and it has our support. I have to say, when you see the background for the first financial crisis, then the real economic crisis and now the more state financial crisis we have, more work should be done in this also internationally – there is no doubt about it. One can use Ireland as an example to see what happens when you get a growth in the financial industry that doesn't have a foundation in the real economy. That's a good example, and Iceland is probably another example. So we're happy about that. If the Minister of Finance has some new information on how work is going internationally in this respect, we will be attending. Let me also commend the Minister of Finance for the work he has done to ensure that Norwegian savings can be secured in an amount that is more than the individual EU countries seem reasonable. I hope that the guarantee system we have will succeed in the future as well. Then several speakers have been involved in the complicated savings products. We will have our own debate on that tomorrow. But let me say that I don't think the Financial Supervisory Authority here has done its job for now. But now I am aware that in a consultation proposal it is put up for tighter leadership. But in my opinion, there was too little consumer vision in the Financial Supervisory Authority related to what has become too many fates, fates that are, of course, a responsibility for themselves, but which are too much also due to aggressiveness and a profit-gathering among financial institutions that I actually didn't think would have been possible, until several of those who have been exposed to the more serious cases have been met. But we'll get more back to that tomorrow. As far as savings banks are concerned, it is good that we look at what is in the public interest and what is going to go out as gifts from savings banks to the surrounding community and organisation. I just want to warn against making this a bureaucratic issue now, and finding problems instead of seeing how well this works in many communities, and in turn helping to strengthen the reputation of savings banks in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4277	We who are here today are very privileged. We can discuss the challenges for the Norwegian and international financial markets with a great deal of consensus – without a single demonstration outside Stortinget – and their consequences for Norway. We're in a unique situation, where we don't need to spend time on crisis and rescue packages to get markets and economies on the right track. We all have an important part of the honour for that, and there is a great responsibility on each of us to manage the task we have undertaken on behalf of the Norwegian people, in the same good way in the years to come. However, there are two challenges that need to be addressed today: Firstly, how will the Western world, in particular Europe, manage to control the large budget deficits and the galloping public debt growth without destroying the possibilities of a new economic upturn? Developments in Greece, Portugal and Spain are particularly alarming, and an intensified crisis is having rapid ring-effects in other countries, including Norway, where more have been involved. What happens if Eurocooperation collapses, the few of us know, other than that it will have consequences for us too, but on a much smaller scale than for those directly involved. Therefore, I and Left believe that it is important that Norway contributes in all possible ways to maintaining some form of economic stability and contributes to economic recovery in the countries concerned. Secondly, how can we develop a more robust financial sector and establish an even more stabilising monetary and credit policy at home, including at home? to avoid bubbles and bad behaviour patterns in the money and credit markets? It is important to have a monetary and credit policy that regulates the lending activities of banks and that ensures that most people can afford to serve the loans granted. In the view of the Left, this should be regulated through increased risk-weighted requirements for equity coverage and stricter requirements for liquidity reserves in banks, and not through the lending activities of banks, for example. housing. The representative Syversen pointed it out in an earlier debate today, the Progress Party was involved in this debate, and the Left – like them – is very skeptical of the demands of the Financial Supervisory Authority for 15 p.m. equity by way of housing purchase. This is directly unsocial and is quite the opposite of the other government and government parties' policy in terms of distribution. In particular, there is a need to argue against improving the BSU for distribution purposes when the introduction of equity affects many times more unfairly. I'm a little bit curious to the representative Lundtigen's very defense of these demands. If we are concerned about the possibility of housing bubbles and attempts at some kind of political regulation of housing prices, in my view and in my view, it is much more targeted to expand Norway's Bank's narrow inflation targets relating to the consumer price index, so that through its mandate, Norway's Bank can act more stabilisingly than today on the total credit growth, and on the price development of properties and securities. Finally, something that is close to my heart and to the Left, and which I also raised in connection with the treatment of last year's financial market communication: one of the most important lessons from the banking and financial crisis is that local and self-owned savings banks have made up the clearly most stabilising part of the Norwegian financial industry. The left considers that it is of great importance for both the Norwegian economy and many communities that the decentralised diversity represented by savings banks is ensured in the future. Therefore, the Left will circle around the institutional status of savings banks as independent financial institutions and ensure that all fiscal regulation and action are as equal as possible with small and large actors, and will help strengthen and strengthen the role of competition surveillance in the financial market.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4294	On 14 October 1991, the signed and then central bank manager, Hermod Skånland, had invited representatives of 27 international banks to a meeting at a hotel in Bangkok, Thailand. There were banks that held in the Norwegian banking credit line, and many of them were uncertain whether, in the light of the banking crisis under way in Norway, they would continue to hold on to those credit lines. We used that meeting to go as far as we could without providing a state guarantee, but tried as hard as we could to convince us that we could deal with the situation that was under way in Norway, which had exploded a little earlier in the autumn through the situation in the credit fund. We did it, there were none of those banks -- as far as I know -- that drew their credit lines. When we start there, it's because there's an experience that's stuck in me, and that makes the issue of financial stability, the issue of sound financial institutions, one of the most important finance ministers, and one of the most important finance ministers is to be concerned about. There is a geographically long road between the Norwegian Stortinget and Cortes Generales in Madrid, the Spanish Parliament, but it may be a much longer distance in economic reality. The situation in Europe tells us how incredibly important it is that a person has a strong desire to have a solid and strong financial industry. After the banking crisis in the early 1990s, we rustled up the supervision, we rusted up the legislation, we were busy – and are concerned about – that we should have solid and strong Norwegian banks. The reality is that we have consistently solid and strong banks in Norway and a good financial system. It is also important in an international context that it is so and that it should be so. So I agree with what is said in the debate, that of course, one should refer to the international competitive situation between banks and financial institutions, but in my mind, based on the experience I gained in the 1990s, sound financial institutions are also a competitive advantage. It is important that one in good time, as we now have in Norway, uses and uses that opportunity to build up the first-line defense in the banks. One of the most important in the future is to strengthen the natural lines of defence of banking and financial institutions. One is the capital of the banks, and the other is the reserves that individual banks should have – the first line defense, which should be opposed if there is a development that requires this defence agency to enter into. The second defence agency, under which it is important to build and strengthen, is the Banking Insurance Fund. There is some background to the fact that one has now sent to the hearing a proposal to lift the ceiling, so that one receives a fixed payment to the common bank hedge fund. It's the banks' common defence system, the other line of defence. Then it becomes important as a kind of a third coup against future crises, what we politicians do, and what we bankers do, through the exercise of the banking system to prevent us from getting into a situation that we experienced in Norway early in the 1990s, and that Europe is experiencing today in a big way. I can assure you that the situation in Europe, following questions from the representative, Mr Gundersen, is on the agenda of the Ministry of Finance, that is. every day when we're gathered in the department. Then it will also be that I share the view that there are demanding challenges in the insurance industry, especially in view of the low level of interest rates we have, and the requirement for guaranteed returns on different products. It is a reality that we have a great deal of attention to, and here the proposals will come in order, not only in the light of what we are now investigating in the Ministry of Finance, but also new proposals that will come from the Banking Law Commission in the near future. So yes, we're busy learning from what we've experienced in the past, and we're busy taking it with us in the future, so we don't get into a new situation where we have to go in with heavy funds to save the financial industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4317	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4321	My question is linked to Nordic harmonisation. There is a broad political consensus on the importance of robust banks, and I hope that there is also a broad political consensus on the importance of having a competitive Norwegian financial system. As far as Nordic harmonisation is concerned, I am aware that a working group has been set up to look at both supervisory practices, calculation methods for capital requirements and any new requirements and possible increased taxation of, among others. banks. My question is: does the Minister of Finance maintain what he has said in Stortinget on a number of occasions, namely that there must be Nordic harmonisation here, or is it such that we are now considering going ahead in Norway? I record that more and more red-green politicians, especially in SV, are looking for higher taxation – not, I think, in the interests of banks, but at the request of increasing taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4328	There's two ratios that are taken up here. One is the relationship with the possible taxation of the area — there is a tax there today — but an additional tax, in order to use that expression. There is an international trend in which one discusses different variants. Some time ago, for example, it was adopted. The European Parliament by a large majority of some form of transaction tax. Norway is taking part in that debate, and we are considering this on an ongoing basis. We will come back to it when we include: look at international developments – there is point one. Point two: As regards the ratio to capital requirements, as is the case in the EU Capital Directive, the Basel III Code, as was said here, is a Nordic working group that looks at it. The results of that group will be presented at the Minister of Finance meeting in Oslo on 2 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4335	My question was whether the Minister of Finance insists that there should be Nordic harmonisation. I think it's a very central question. The Financial Market Communication discusses different requirements, different regulations and different taxes on the financial industry. The right goes into that debate without prejudice because we want a solid banking system, but we are very concerned that these issues need to be seen in the context. I record, as I was concerned, that several red-green politicians are in charge of higher taxation of banks. My question is: does the Minister for Finance insist that there should be Nordic harmonisation to ensure both competitiveness and soundness?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4342	It was good that I was given the opportunity to continue my reasoning from the answer instead. It is true that the background to this working group was the introduction of different capital requirements on the international agenda and the possibility of a most coordinated Nordic approach to it. That's the starting point for this group. It is a question of speeding up the progress, of transitional rules and of the most common methods of calculating risks. That work is well under way, and it will, as I said, be presented on 2 July. So it will always be that you have to keep open so that you can have national adaptations, based on two conditions. One is the relationship with what a person calls systemically important banks or financial institutions in his own country, and the other is whether there are particular risk factors that make a person in a single country, such as Norway, Sweden, Finland or another Nordic country, have special precautions to take into account. But yes, the most coordinated approach is an important part of the job that is now being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4351	I want to follow up on the question of activity taxes, or transaction taxes – as you see it. I read the financial market message so that the government basically says yes to such a tax. It may be a good idea to be included by the Minister of Finance. My question is, if you agree in principle, of course you look at whether other countries want to do this. How does the Minister of Finance feel that such a tax should be set up, if necessary, so that it works as intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4358	There have been slightly different names for this – transaction fee, transaction tax. Tobin tax is another expression that has been used. On the Norwegian side, we have supported that principle. Among other things, we support: the play that came from former President Sarkozy in France but has said that it is important that such a tax/tax be introduced in a broad international context. The reason for this is that introducing such a tax on a one-sided basis would result in a transfer of banking or financial services to areas where one does not have such a tax. So implementation in a broad international context is important. Then there will be another question that will probably be at least as complicated: What should the money be used for? Should they be used for domestic purposes, or should they be used, for example: is used to finance key international initiatives such as: addressing climate challenges? Yes, Norway has supported the proposal that came from France, but in a broad international context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4367	The last answer is a little bit interesting, looking up the first question. Here the government emphasizes that if you are going to work with a Tobin tax, you should see it in an international context. That's a very good clarification for the Progress Party. At the same time, he has asked questions about harmonisation in the Nordic region, where it can be seen that an unharmonised regulation on risk weighting and capital adequacy will mean that similar players in the Norwegian market will have different framework conditions, depending on whether they are a Swedish bank, a Danish bank or a Norwegian bank. So that government itself places emphasis on the competitive situation through a Tobin tax, one looks away immediately in the Norwegian banking market. Should not one challenge the logic of the finance minister with regard to the Tobin tax, which I fully agree with, and place greater emphasis on it when looking at the regulation of the Norwegian banking market, where foreign players also participate and compete?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4376	It is possible that I have answered in a slightly unclear way, or that the representative Solvik-Olsen has not got the point. However, the main point of this working group, which runs across Nordic finance ministries, is precisely to look at the most common approach to the international requirements that have now come about increased capital requirements and new arrangements in relation to regulating the financial market. It is the relationship with the EU Capital Directive that is now being discussed in the EU, it is the relationship with the Basel III Code, it is the relationship with the pace of transitional arrangements, and it is the relationship with the emphasis on risk, so that it is weighted in the most equal way possible. The reason why we do that is that there is a significant joint Nordic banking market, and that is to ensure that there is a level playing field between the players in the Nordic banking market. So here we're actually doing the job that we've told us to do, and the representative Solvik-Olsen is busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4383	Government partner, SVs Geir-Ketil Hansen, said in his post that it must be easier to own than to rent. That's what the Left very much agrees with. Several have been concerned about the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority of 15 p.m. At the same time, it's now that while it's just 20 pst. deduction of savings under the BSU scheme, it is 28 pst. deduction of interest payable on consumption loans. Is this something that the Minister of Finance will clean up?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4390	We have said that we will assess the BSU scheme in connection with the housing announcement that is presented in the autumn – that is the plan. That's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Item No 2: It is enough that several debaters have been concerned that it is important to approach the situation in the housing market on a slightly wider scale than to have a one-sided focus either on Youth Housing Saving or the equity requirement, which has been laid there by the Financial Supervisory Authority. The main reason for what we now see in the housing market is the large imbalance between the demand for housing and the production of dwellings. There the state and government and politicians can play an important role centrally, but there can not least be local politicians through the organisation of housing development, etc. also play a significant role. So in the course of the fall, the Storting also gets an opportunity for a broad approach to the situation we now see in the housing market, which the government is also passionate about, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4401	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4405	Good consumer protection is essential for financial stability and an important objective in itself in order to achieve a well-functioning financial market. In the years leading up to the financial crisis in 2008, attention on consumer protection was too poor, and many people were injured by, for example, investing. in compound savings products for borrowed money. It must not be repeated, and it is therefore essential that the Financial Supervisory Authority has a clear role to play in overseeing, so that the ordinary consumer is not deceived and is left with great losses after contact with unprofessional players in the financial market. After the financial crisis, many financial products are no longer on sale and it has been made clear to the Financial Supervisory Authority how significant consumer protection is. The Council of State has also recently sent out a proposal to clarify explicitly in the Financial Supervision Act that the Financial Supervision should ensure that institutions under supervision take account of the interests and rights of consumers. Such clarification in the legal text of the Consumer Liability of the Financial Supervisory Authority may make it clear that the pursuit of consumer interests remains, and shall be, a very important part of the role of the Financial Supervisory Authority. This I think is very positive. Tomorrow we shall be debating a proposal from the Christian People's Party, where we will also be on the same topic, but I would like to stress the importance of this area by including it today. We need a well-functioning financial market in our country. In order for us to have that, trust between financial institutions and customers must be good. It is essential that customers know who they are dealing with when they contact a bank, or even get an enquiry. It is therefore positive that it is now proposed that financial institutions in their marketing should not be able to use names or names covering which institution will be responsible for the customer relationship. In the time before the financial crisis in 2008, it was also a problem. A well-functioning Financial Supervision is important. We have a well-functioning supervision in the first place, which we can do even better by further strengthening consumer protection and thus trust in our financial institutions. It is essential that we have a functioning banking system in our country. Not least, it is important that we feel that the banks take on a social responsibility. In many communities around our country, savings banks are a major contributor to the development of local society through good and efficient banking activities and through part of the surplus being made available to donors in the form of grants to many teams, associations and individuals, which, through the funds, can contribute to more democratic development and value creation in small and large communities. It is the ownership of savings banks — historically they are self-owned — that enables these banks to share their profits for non-profit purposes rather than for shareholders, as in commercial banks. This is positive for communities. The volume and amount of the amount allocated to this type of purpose have increased in recent years. The current legislation and the practice of the Financial Supervisory Authority indicate that the concept of ‘useful purposes’ should be interpreted relatively widely. However, the savings bank association has expressed concern that there will be a narrower interpretation of the term ‘useful purpose’ when it is announced that in the forthcoming legislative proposal on financial corporate law there will be a concrete analysis of what is contained in the term ‘useful purpose’. I trust that the Council of State has good dialogue with the savings banks around this in the time to come, as this way of sharing the surplus with its own community is an important contributor to the development of the democracy of which we are so proud. I am also pleased that several have expressed concern for the savings banks today. Finally, I would like to say that it is fantastic to experience the economic stability that characterises Norway, in the light of the turmoil we see around us in Europe. But we know we're vulnerable here, too. Therefore, safe economic governance is so important. We do not need economic experimentation in a troubled time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4426	The financial crisis started in 2008 when we had to worry about the banks. We'll continue to have to save land. Now we must fear human beings. All in all, 25 million people are out of work in Europe. In Spain, the youth unemployment rate is almost 50 pst, and in our closest neighbour, Sweden, youth unemployment is 20 pst. The contrast to the situation here at home is enormous. Employment in the country is the highest in the world, unemployment is a record low in both international and historical terms, and absenteeism. More than 300,000 new jobs have been created throughout the country since 2005, two out of three in the private sector. Yet, we are not invulnerable. The most important protection we can have is to keep the economy in order, so we don't see interest and exchange rates in play. In addition, it is important that we have safe and sound banks. A question mentioned in the message and mentioned in the Committee's comments is the status of Solvency II and the challenges posed by the new rules for Norwegian life insurance companies. The final design of the rules is still uncertain, but the rules will probably mean that life insurance companies will have to increase the buffer capital to meet the new requirements. Among other things, the value of insurance obligations should be assessed on the basis of market interest rates rather than a fixed interest rate. It's giving rise to new challenges. In addition, the life expectancy of the insurance companies increases more than that of the companies when calculating the premiums, which increases the value of the company's obligations, while at the same time low interest rates can make it challenging to achieve a stable return that is right than the interest rate guarantee. We are well aware that the challenges associated with this are particularly great for those companies where freelancers make up an important part of the enterprise. At the same time, we know that the Banking Act Commission is currently working on draft new rules, including: on new pension product, which will facilitate the transition to Solvency II legislation for life insurance companies. However, a single committee underlines the importance of life insurance companies for the transition to new legislation through good risk management and satisfactory buffer capital. I also want to say a little about the housing market. Housing prices are at an historically high level. The high income growth has been an important factor behind the growth of housing prices. Increasing population also reinforces the trend. The number of completed new dwellings is too low in relation to population growth. This is why the government will also submit a building announcement to the fall. Household debt has been on our right for several years than income growth, so debt debt has increased. While debt is high in historical terms, household interest rates are low because of the low interest rate. As interest rates return to a more normal level, interest rates also increase. This, in turn, weakens household debt-paying balances and increases the credit risk of the banks. For this reason, the Financial Supervisory Authority has streamlined the lending guidelines. Among other things, there's a rule that the loan, with the mortgage in the dwelling, should normally not be greater than 85 pst. of the housing value. I see that the opposition writes that they want to reverse this rule and replace it with other measures. I have to say, I wonder, because we have to have rules that ensure that people don't borrow over the pipe or come into a situation where you can't hold the loan if it's pure path, or it's harder to get a job. In addition, I believe it is important that the banks that borrow also become more solid. The IMF also comments on the high level of household debt and developments in the housing market as risk factors for the Norwegian economy. The IMF is in favour of the new guidelines for the Financial Supervisory Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4447	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4474	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes and the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4485	In this debate we will discuss both Report. St. 17 for 2011–2012, on the management of the State pension fund, and Document 8:81 S for 2011–2012, on the proposal by Trine Skei Grande for the reduction of the State pension fund foreign investment in companies that destroy tropical forests. The paper on the management of State pension funds, SPU and SPN contains results and assessments of the management in 2011 and plans for the further development of the fund’s investment strategy in the future. In line with what was announced in last year’s communication, this Communication sets out plans to change the investment strategy in SPU in relation, inter alia, to:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t new reference index for SPU bond investment with GDP weighting of government bonds and simplification of the index by the withdrawal of some sub-markets. Implementation of these changes has begun. Furthermore, it is envisaged to expand the reference index to include government bonds from emerging economies. new geographical distribution of SPU’s share investments that are based to a greater extent than before on market weights. It is set to reduce the proportion in Europe by about 10 percentage points. The share of emerging economies is increasing by about 2 percentage points. plans for a change in the system of rebalancing the share of the fund, which is also presented. The majority of the Committee endorses the changes that are now being made. Transparency in the management of the State pension fund and our ability to maintain a long-term investment strategy for the fund, including in periods of turmoil in the financial markets, are prerequisites for a broad trust in the management of the State pension fund. The ongoing reporting by the Ministry of Finance, Norway’s Bank and the Folketrugdfondet and Stortinget’s treatment of the annual notification of the State pension fund are an important part of this. As demonstrated by the Committee's position on the notification of the year, there is broad agreement on the overall long-term strategy and objective of the Fund. This is particularly important now, with the unrest and uncertainty in financial markets and with the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. In such a situation one might wonder whether our common savings are still placed safely in shares, bonds and property, which have been the strategy since the fund was created. If we look at history, this strategy and its development have served us well. The State petroleum fund, which was later renamed the State pension fund abroad, was established in 1990 and the first money transfer was made in 1996. The background was a broad political consensus that oil revenues should not only be used in the short term in each year’s budget, but should be used in the long term for the benefit of future generations to take part in oil wealth and for the sake of competitive industry. In 2001, the action rule was adopted, a rule that would ensure the long-term and planned use of oil revenues from the State budget, similar to the expected real return of the fund. In 2004, the Ethics Guidelines were introduced and the Ethics Council was established and, following the evaluation in 2009, a more comprehensive strategy for responsible investments was introduced. Looking at the results of this long-term oil resource management, it has served us mainly well. The annual return on SPU from 1998 to the present day has, however, varied between minus 23.3 pst. and 25,6 pst., and the return of SPN has varied between minus 25,2 pst. and 33.5 pst. In the active administration, too, the results achieved vary from year to year, stressing that we need to be prepared that the value of the State pension fund varies significantly from year to year. The figures from the Bank of Norway show that we have to calculate fluctuations in the value of the SPU from one year to the next on 10 pst. Corresponding figures from the Swedish Social Security Fund show annual fluctuations in the SPN value of nearly 17 pst. For 2011, both SPU and SPN have negative returns. The reason for this was weak development in the stock markets for both funds. The result in 2011 is marked by considerable uncertainty in financial markets in relation to the growth outlook for the world economy. The European sovereign debt crisis also had a negative impact on the level of risk that investors were willing to take. This was particularly reflected in the fall in the European stock market. However, the strategy and the objective have a long-term perspective of which there is broad political agreement, and over time both the Bank of Norway and the Swedish Social Fund have created added value in management. Since 1997, the average annual real return on investments in SPU has been 2.7 pst. This is lower than the Ministry's estimate of a long-term real return of 4 pst., but is still well within the uncertainty that we have to expect. We have an investment fund of 3 300 billion. kr by the turn of the year, and we have had good income to the state fund to build the welfare society we know today, from the foundation. There has also been attention and debate in the population and in the media on the management of the pension fund, both on SPU and on SPN. It's good that there's attention to the fund. In particular, it is the investment strategy and the concrete investments in relation to the ethical guidelines that create debate. There is, however, a great deal of dispersal in the debate. Some are concerned with the economic consequences of exclusion, which is part of the instruments for breach of the SPU ethical code. The notification points out that the costs of exclusion in isolation are estimated at approximately 10,6 billion. NOK lower returns in the period 2005-2011. Of these, exclusion from tobacco-producing companies amounts to $9.6 billion. kr, or 90 pst. of the lesser-yielding return. I would point out that exclusion from the fund is ethical and not financially motivated, and that such a political choice to exclude investment in tobacco may have such costs. On the other hand, short-term losses may prove to be profitable in the long term. There have also been several debates on concrete investment in relation to ethics and our foreign policy, with demands for more exclusions. That is what the draft representative we are discussing today is about. According to the proposer, the annual report to the State pension fund abroad indicates that the fund had invested at least 16 billion by the end of 2010. SEK in 38 companies involved in rainforest grazing. She believes that SPU is making a lot of money in industries responsible for the destruction of huge rainforest areas, such as logging, mining, certain types of oil extraction and the production of palm oil, cellulose and meat in rainforest areas. On this basis, the proposer proposes to investigate the impact of State pension funds abroad on deforestation in developing countries and how to improve the situation, to ensure the independence of the Ethics Council and to review all SPU investments in sectors where serious environmental damage is prevalent, in particular rainforest, and to ensure greater transparency. From the SPU to investing in shares in 1998 to today, much has been done in the development and focus on the ethical aspects of SPU management. The Ethics Guidelines were introduced in 2004 and evaluated in 2009, resulting in the introduction of a more comprehensive approach to responsible investment practices in 2010. This strategy targets both the work of the Ethics Council and the Bank of Norway. The work on responsible investments includes both international cooperation for the development of best practices, environmental investments, research and investigation, ownership and observation and exclusion of companies. SPU is a financial investor with investments in over 8 000 companies. As underlined in the letter from the Ministry of Finance to the case, investors generally do not add fresh money to the company when buying shares in the secondary market. In the case of such share purchases, the purchase price is due to the selling shareholder. Therefore, such an investment and increased activity cannot necessarily be equated with the company, so it may be difficult to assess whether SPU affects deforestation in developing countries. However, there are constant assessments that have led to the exclusion of 55 companies today due to breaches of the fund's ethical rules. Two of these were excluded in 2010 due to illegal logging and serious environmental damage in tropical rainforests. In addition, share purchases give voting rights and the ability to exercise ownership. Norway’s Bank has a climate as a focus area in its ownership exercise and has developed its own expectation document in this field. The exercise of ownership may in some cases contribute to a change in the behaviour of companies. With regard to the work of the Ethics Council, I would like to support what the Department says, namely that the Ethics Council is both formal and truly independent, and that the Council itself does its own priorities of its resources. The task of the Ethics Council is to advise the Ministry of Finance, and the scheme is based on independent testing by the Ministry of Finance. I think it is important to stress that the majority of the Committee supports this division of labour. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of the Ethics Council contributing to identifying sectors or areas where the risk of breaches of the ethical guidelines is greatest, giving priority to resources to capture investments in companies that violate the ethical guidelines at the earliest opportunity. The Ethics Council’s annual report states that during the next few years they plan to review, inter alia: illegal logging and other particularly destructive logging, so that the mapping requested by the proposer is fully preserved. There is broad agreement that the SPU should be managed responsibly and that the Fund should have a strategy for responsible investment practices, but that the Fund should not be used as a foreign policy tool. The SPU is used in this area as a model of multiple investors and investment funds, including by the IMF and the OECD. On the Committee's travel abroad where we present the SPU and are presented to similar foreign investment funds, my impression is that the State pension fund abroad is one of the world's most open funds and a fund that other countries' political authorities and funds look to in terms of the management model chosen. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that today's model is not high in stone. The ethical guidelines, the investment strategy and the government pension fund management model have been developed over time and will also be further developed in the future. However, experience so far shows that we have the ability to facilitate the long-term and good management of the country's petroleum assets, so that it can benefit both current and future generations. With that, I recommend the Committee's position on the two issues we are now debating.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4546	Everyone agrees that it is wise to have money on book. The future will give us enough of the expenses, and knowing that we have saved in good times, gives us security and security. We all agree on that. I hope everyone in the hall will remember that – also the Progress Party agrees. What we discuss from year to year is how we manage our revenues – how much we will save and how we will save. Here the lots are separated. In St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001 on economic policy guidelines proposed by the government to provide a use similar to the expected real return on what was then called the Petroleum Fund. Such expected real returns were set to 4 pst., and with one, the rule of action was born. In other words, Norway’s welfare was to be based partly on interest from foreign money placements, a strategy used by capitalists through generations. Most quickly thought that such a strategy would be wise, as it supposedly would ensure access to well-being far into eternity. But can a country manage its wealth in the same way that a single capitalist manages its money? Not necessarily. A country depends on predictability. A single capitalist can tighten his belt overnight, but doing the same in a democratic country is far more difficult. Overall, making itself increasingly dependent on interest income in order to provide established welfare services has a downside. The most important thing for a country is to invest for the future. Making our well-being dependent on increased sweating from production in other countries' businesses is neither sustainable nor visionary, but it is very pleasant. Much is good in Norway, and we have solid finances. But we do not know that the government's policy has also led to record excesses outside the labour market and, as a consequence, to the work and value creation of others. There is no disagreement that the Community funds must be used where we get the most back for them, but then one cannot approach the issues with a dogmatic view of the main premises of the debate. If we want our resources to be wasted as much as possible, both for today's and for future generations, we need to be open to revision of the rule of action as a financial management tool. Furthermore, we need to identify the strongest dynamic effects of fiscal policy while being bold enough to discuss whether the size of some public benefits can have a negative impact on society's value creation. The Progress Party wishes to hold a non-prejudice debate on these basic premises for Norwegian fiscal policy. Therefore, it is not sufficient for the Minister of Finance to respond to autopilot's claim that the government is pursuing a responsible economic policy, understanding that any other approach to economic policy is irresponsible. If the only ambition of the Minister of Finance is accountability, he openly chooses to depreciate fiscal policy as a tool for growth and innovation. Financial policy then becomes reactionary and conservative and not forward-looking and creative. The Progress Party will actively use fiscal policy and our petroleum revenues to give Norwegian industry the best conditions for success. We're thinking new, and we're going to consider offering social partners tax breaks as a basis for future payroll, which ensures improved purchasing power for everyone, while maintaining competitiveness. It is precisely the government’s job to ensure the best competitive conditions for Norwegian business, and then it is not clear that the only solution is to accumulate more and more state capital while Norwegian companies are being out-competitive, among others. because of a high salary level. The Progress Party wants a new rule of action that addresses the challenges facing society and Norwegian business. Today’s rule of action does not take into account economic short-term trends or the availability of labour. The action rule is calculated on the basis of the amount of the State pension fund at the beginning of the year. If there has been an increase in international financial markets, the State pension fund is growing and the estimated return is increasing. Miraculously, it is more appropriate to inject several crowns into the Norwegian economy, theoretically speaking, a context that does not find support in any economic theories. This is precisely why today’s rule of action is a poor management tool. A rule of action should primarily be able to define the different effects of money on the Norwegian economy over time and at the same time distinguish between current expenditure and investment. The Progress Party therefore wants a new action rule, which introduces a ceiling for annual growth in public consumption, limited by the growth of the Norwegian economy. In parallel, socially viable investments should be made on the basis of capacity of Norwegian and foreign suppliers. The assumption for such investments must be that profitability is assessed on the basis of lifetime costs and impact assessments calculated over several years. And remember that when making reasonable real investment in, for example, road, do not disappear the values. They will in many cases contribute to the return far beyond what we get from the Pension Fund. For several years, the Progress Party has promoted a number of proposals that would improve the management of its oil revenues. Our focus is constantly to make Norwegian welfare less dependent on financial income. In order to achieve this, we need to invest in the future, build a forward-looking infrastructure and invest in R & D, which in turn will provide profitable jobs and competitive businesses. Such investments are expenditure on the acquisition of income, as they will lay the basis for economic growth in our own country and at the same time make us less dependent on the profitability of other countries' businesses. The Progress Party, this time together with the other opposition parties, is promoting a proposal to explore alternative ways of organising the SPU. The same parties also promote proposals for the establishment of an investment programme within the SPU with the aim of investing in sustainable enterprises and projects in poor countries and emerging markets, with the objective of an overall investment framework of up to 10 billion. kr. Last but not least, the criticism that the Solvik-Olsen representative had to answer that we cut in aid, that this is a way of running – not aid, but business, where it can pay off for all parties to start industry and business in other countries. It is the Progress Party for, but passive assistance, which does not contribute in any area – only to ease our own conscience – yet has not led to growth or prosperity in any country. The progress party is not greedy, and we would like to invest more if it turned out to be sustainable. We now face uncertain times. Southern Europe is struggling hard. The euro is unstable. Financial markets are faltering. That's exactly where our economic future is located. I would like to emphasise this here and now, in 2012, that the Progress Party has warned against placing all the money. We have also proposed to have less money in shares, less of our capital in shares. So don't be very surprised, because there are many things that indicate that the stock exchanges across Europe, and maybe also in Asia and the rest of the world, will go down considerably in the coming year or the next two years. There will be significant instability. This now knows the size. This is what the government now knows. So we have the opportunity to do something about it. If they had built up their own infrastructure, built roads, built what is absolutely necessary to create economic growth, create profitable businesses, profitable jobs, they wouldn't have been as dependent on the interest rates and returns that these locations give. So another thing that is not mentioned, and that I want to record. If we are investing in our own country, we can collect labour from Europe. When unemployed engineers go a lot in Spain and in Italy and elsewhere in Europe, and we don't have enough engineering capacity in Norway, what in the world is preventing us from picking up engineers and getting built roads, building the infrastructure we need? So here, engineers are picking up unemployment benefits from an empty state fund in these countries, and then we have plenty of money and lots of things to do. Yet we do not choose that strategy. Then we say it's going to be inflation. That was the government's previous answer. What they're saying now, I don't know. We're going to save for future generations without any evidence that the way we save will actually save Norway or future generations in any way. I'm addressing the suggestions I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4592	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4595	State pension funds shall ensure a good return on our common assets. The money will be managed in such a way that we can be aware of the investments both today and tomorrow. It is also important to ensure the maximum degree of transparency, both in terms of investment and in terms of management, in order to ensure a democratic anchoring. The debate on the State pension fund will, of course, be a debate on both the management and the use of the money, because this is naturally linked. If the money is not well managed, there will be less oil money to spend, both today and in the future. On the other hand, if the money is not used in such a way that the population feels that it benefits them, the demand to use more and more will become stronger and less money will be left to manage. There is a very demanding situation both for the Bank of Norway, for NBIM, and for the Storting, with the major fluctuations in international markets. We are facing a situation where the fund is growing and growing, while there are major fluctuations in international markets. It presents management with major challenges, and it also presents us with great challenges, because it is not to be concealed that the way money is managed, and that good anchoring is ensured through an open debate and dialogue with the Storting, is very important for us to be able to defend the construction of such a large fund in the future. I believe we have reason to be proud that we have transferred so much of the oil wealth to the fund. This means that we ensure that the wealth benefits both today's and future generations. But it is clear that this should be defended, including to voters, that there is openness and good anchoring in all processes. I want to take this opportunity to give credit to NBIM and NBIM's management for ensuring greater transparency and good dialogue with the Stortinget in recent years. The annual consultations in Stortinget provide a good opportunity both to ask critical questions and to get good answers. In addition, the Stockholm Finance Committee has visited NBIM in both London, New York and Singapore. It gives Storting greater insight, and I hope it also helps NBIM to see the value of the democratic anchoring of the fund itself. The right is in line with the adjustments to the investment strategy contained in the notification, both in terms of new regional distribution and in terms of the GDP weighting of debt securities. We also support the signals and leadership in rebalancing the fund's share. I believe it is very important that we also in the future be able to ensure broad political support for governance. I believe that in recent years we have secured support that goes beyond traditional party-political divisions. It's in itself a value, because it creates peace around the management of our common wealth. Right-wing impatience is primarily linked to the way in which the oil money is used. When the State pension fund was established abroad and we subsequently adopted the action rule, there was a broad consensus that it was not without significance how the oil money was used. In St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001: ‘The use of oil revenues does not matter. Output in mainland Norway accounts for about 4/5> of total production in the Norwegian economy. Therefore, there shall be no significant loss of revenue in the rest of the economy until the increased freedom of action granted by petroleum revenues has been exhausted. Thus, in the long term, the growth capacity of the mainland economy determines the welfare development in Norway.’ This was the very reason why a large majority in the United Kingdom were leading the way in using oil money, and there was a consensus that investment should be made in knowledge, infrastructure and so-called growth-promoting tax relief. In the year preceding the year, Mr Öystein Olsen, Governor of the Central Bank, said: ‘The authorities have used the space for action to implement standard increases and to increase expenditure in a number of areas. On the other hand, priorities for measures that strengthen productivity and growth capacity in the longer term, including fiscal adjustments, seem to have come to an end.» I agree with that assessment. We have also seen other analyses, including: by the Main Business Organisation, which showed that nearly nine out of ten oil crowns under the Bondevik II Government were invested in growth-promoting tax reliefs, knowledge and infrastructure, while under the Stoltenberg II Government less than two out of ten kroner were used for the same purpose. I believe this is a very important issue. It is obvious that if we do not now use oil money to build up under growth and ensure that we have a business outside the oil and gas sectors, Norway will become increasingly dependent on the oil and gas industries’ revenues and jobs, making us much more vulnerable. So the right is not only concerned with how the money is managed, but also with how the money is used. Finally, the right, together with the other bourgeois parties, has promoted a proposal that we want an investigation into how NBIM and the administration should be organised in the future. There is no kind of distrust of how the money has been managed or how we have organised the business. I rather believe on the contrary that the organization has served us well, and that there is every reason to give honor to the administration itself. But we see that the fund is growing – and hopefully doubling – from today’s size. Then we believe it is important that we already have a thorough, professionally based discussion of how to organise governance for the future. We point out that we should discuss whether there should still be one or more funds, whether the fund should be managed within the Bank of Norway or whether to establish it outside. If it is organised within it, it may also be possible – as the Ministry of Finance has pointed out earlier – to set up a separate interest committee, so that the Governing Council of Norway’s Bank can concentrate fully on its responsibility for the State pension fund abroad. I note that the government parties still refrain from agreeing to the proposal. But I hope that the Minister of Finance still notices that there is an overall opposition that wants such an investigation, so that we can be well prepared for the future that will come, and that we ensure that we have optimal organisation and good governance of our common wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4635	The management of the Pension Fund, as exercised since its establishment in 1990, has been very good for Norway. The lines of the management of the Fund go back to the objectives set out in the first single notification on the integration of petroleum activities into the Norwegian economy, namely: «avoid the result of only rapid and uncontrolled growth in the use of material resources without otherwise changing society». The political leaders that were denounced by the Stortinget in 1973 are still high-level policies today. Today, there is the long-termity of the management of our huge wealth of 3,500 billion. The focus of policy is on spending money for future generations. The fund is a very long-term investor. It is therefore necessary that the management of the Fund has a long-term perspective. One of the main risk factors in the coming decades is climate problems. Yesterday, the Stortinget addressed the Climate Communication, which draws up Norway’s plan to significantly reduce climate emissions by 2020, and beyond. Unfortunately, we have not obtained a global climate agreement setting a binding framework for global climate emissions. Therefore, it is important that we, as owners of the fund, provide for a climate adjustment of the investment strategy. It's both about us as long-term owners having a clear interest in the fact that the companies we own are trying to reduce their climate emissions, and about the fact that, as investors, we have to make sure that we place more of our money in companies that will increase in value when climate problems increase, and less in those companies that reduce in value. The consultancy company Mercer has produced reports to advise on this. The treatment of these councils will be an important theme for the government's work on the follow-up of State pension funds abroad in the coming years. SV asked the question of how we should avoid the fund's capital contributing to making the world a worse place, but rather helped to improve living conditions, on the agenda, and in 2004 we had an impact on ethical legislation. The message explains how this has been followed up. Centrally, the Petroleum Fund’s investment universes are still being expanded and responsible investment practices are being developed over time. The new mandate, adopted in 2010, was to give greater emphasis to integrating good corporate governance and environmental and social conditions into ordinary administration – from merely extending it as an instrument, to having a more significant impact on companies in order to avoid a breach of ethics. At the same time, we have retained the extraction mechanism as a rice behind the mirror in order to avoid investment in grossly unethical behaviour and environmental damage. We support this practice because it contributes to improvements in basic living conditions for many people. There is reason to believe that responsible investor practices actually yield increased returns in the long term, even if they may produce poorer results in the short term. Nevertheless, it is important that our future prosperity is not based on making money on businesses that we cannot ethically support. Critical searchlights have been addressed, including: from the Rainforest Fund, against investments in companies that are alleged to contribute to deforestation and environmental damage, and in other contexts against companies that are alleged to contribute to violations of international law, inter alia. in the case of investments in occupied Palestinian territories in the West Bank. It is very important that many follow closely the investment of the Petroleum Fund and contribute to a public debate. It's in everyone's interest. This has now focused on whether the Ethics Council has the resources needed to meet the new tasks it has been given and whether the resources it has allocated are sufficient for the tasks in the future. This has also had to be assessed by the broad majority of the Committee. This means that it is an important political priority that the Ethics Council should have the necessary resources to meet its tasks in the future. I look forward to seeing how the conclusion of this assessment will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4662	First of all, there is reason to say that we are in a fantastic situation that can discuss that we have a pension fund, with the capital that you have, and that then contributes to the degrees into the Norwegian economy every year. It is of great value to manage, and it should be managed with care. Luckily, we can agree that to a large extent that happens. I can very much join the excellent article from the case rapporteur in this case, and then it will be better to address some other areas where there is some disagreement. But let it not hide that we are largely satisfied by the Christian People's Party both with the state pension fund abroad and the state pension fund inland. The national pension fund in Finland often gets a little less attention, but I think there is a reason to say that last year the Social Security Fund achieved a return that was actually 1.3 percentage points higher than the reference index. For the state pension fund abroad, there were 0.1 percentage points below, but we have to look at the particular situation that was not least in our own part of the world, as part of the background for it. So over to what might be a little bit more controversial. Earlier this year, the governor gave a speech where he was problematic about the rule of action, where it is stipulated that we can use a return of 4 pst. into our state budgets. He suggested that maybe it should be lowered to 3 pst. I am a little surprised that it was turned down so quickly – shot down, it might be called – from both the one and the other. I think even with the story and what has happened there on the return, you could say that 4 pst. There is a lot of evidence that there are at least a lot of challenges to be able to count on such a net return in the future. I think there was good reason to look at the thoughts presented by the governor. When it comes to adjusting the investment strategy, we join it. I refer there to the rapporteur's posts and have nothing to say except that. Jan Tore Sanner was about the possibility of seeing in other ways to organize this considerable fund. It ends up with an overall opposition. I noticed that the case-rapporteur too, at least not in principle, was opposed to looking at this, but perhaps not right now. Then it was said that the Pension Fund should not be a foreign policy instrument, and I agree with that. But I want to say that the Minister of Industry was dangerously close, in India, to the nearest – what to say – showing that our investments via the Pension Fund could have an impact on a very topical matter. There may be someone who feels the urge to make use of this fund when it comes to concrete matters. I agree, you should be careful about that. But I still think we should be aware that what we mean is one side of this question. What the rest of the world sees is something completely different. Then I think we often get a big job claiming that for our part this never has foreign policy implications. There is something about theory and practice — at least in relation to those who judge it from outside. Then I am pleased that an overall opposition wants to use the fund to invest in sustainable businesses and projects in poor countries and emerging markets, with a total investment framework target of up to 10 billion. kr. I now think it is time for the government parties to get on the road at this point as well. The Christian People's Party and the Left believe the same in investing in innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies. That's the Ethics Fund. We believe that it should be strengthened. There is an increasing investment in companies, and we need agreement in Norwegian policy, not least in the case of rainforests. I refer to the setting and think this should be a theme for more people here at Stortinget – that we make sure that one hand knows what the other person is doing. With this I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together on both of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4691	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4694	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review. I am going to spend most of my speaking time on the proposal for a representative that the Left has promoted, to which the rapporteur also referred. Fortunately, a few days ago, agreement was reached in the climate agreement here in Stortinget. It is good that the list has been raised as to what should be the minimum of the measures to be implemented to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the coming years. Nearly four and a half years ago, the Storting made similar settlements. One of the measures taken by the Left, Right and Christian People's Party at the time was that the Norwegian contribution to stopping deforestation in developing countries increased by about 3 billion. kr every year. Later, the government has tried to create the impression that it was the idea of government and government parties and has traveled the world and received medals and honours on behalf of this initiative. It is well and good that Norway is recognised for the important work we contribute to conserving rainforests. There is no doubt that it is crucial in a global climate perspective. The more strange it is that the State pension fund abroad, SPU, invests heavily in companies involved in building down and reducing rainforests. It'll be a form of double morality, which is regrettable. Although it is not that direct, it can actually be said that Norway’s contribution to the conservation of rainforests is financed through SPU’s investments in companies that contribute to the opposite. The Left considers this to be both unfortunate and regrettable. It also places Norway’s important commitment to the conservation of tropical forests in a strange light. The report ‘Beauty and the beast: Norway’s investments in rainforest protection and rainforest destruction’, published by the Rainforest Fund and the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association, shows that at the turn of the year 2011/2012, SPU had shares for nearly 82 billion. SEK in 73 companies in sectors where deforestation and other forest destruction are very common. Of course, not all of these investments are broken or suspected of breaching the ethical guidelines of the SPU, but it is almost impossible to get an overview of which companies break the guidelines and which companies operate acceptable. As an example of Norway’s double standards in this area, the report of the Rainforest Fund and the Nature Conservation Association points to Indonesia, where Norway has promised Indonesia up to 6 billion through bilateral agreements. kr to reduce the deforestation of the country. At the same time, SPU invests 3.8 billion. in 21 plantation companies in the palm oil industry, which is the main cause of deforestation in Southeast Asia. The Left has therefore put forward three proposals, which unfortunately only receive the support of the Christian People's Party when we come to voting later today. It is sad that SV does not even want to support the proposal for something as harmless as investigating SPU’s activities in relation to deforestation in developing countries. For the party which has both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Development – and which claims to be the birth aid for the ethical guidelines of the Oil Fund – this should be evident. I must be honest and say that there is something surprising about the technocratic tone that permeates the Minister of Finance's response to the Committee. One thing is that it is skeptical or incomprehensible to some of the formulations or claims made in the proposal, another is the claim that Norway contributes to deforestation through the SPU because: ‘does not add fresh money to the company when buying shares in the secondary market. In the case of such share purchases, the purchase price is due to the selling shareholder’. According to the Minister of Finance, it is very good to invest in companies that contribute to deforestation, because the money does not go directly to the company, but to sellers – who have taken the sense and sell themselves out of companies that do this type of business. On this basis, together with the wording of the Council of State in letters to the Financial Committee that he considers that: ‘It is not appropriate to allow Norway’s involvement in measures aimed at the conservation of rainforests to lead to a fundamentally different or more stringent treatment of companies operating in that sector’; there is reason to draw the conclusion that the Minister of Finance and the Government believes that it does not at all matter whether SPU invests in companies that operate underpinning Finland or in companies that cut tropical rainforests in Indonesia. For the Left, this plays a significant role. It plays a role in Norway’s commitments under the UN Climate Change Agreement, it plays a role in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions, and it plays a role in good ethics and morals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4730	There is a broad consensus that oil wealth gives us opportunities that are not so many other countries vain, and it gives us great opportunities in the first place. There are some challenges related to the management of such a large wealth, but of course there is also a discussion about what a person spends the money for. This is a discussion that we get to take on Friday, so I don't spend that much time on it now. First of all, oil wealth gives us great opportunities. I also have a first need to say that both the Norwegian Bank and the Folketry Fund are doing a good job in managing the foreign part and the domestic part of the pension wealth respectively – on the basis of the mandate they have received, and the mission they have received from the community. The debate today also shows that there is broad agreement on the broad lines of the management of the Fund. That's good. In the 2011 Annual Communication, we address some important issues related to the strategy in the future – mainly the distribution between the different parts of the world in terms of investments in shares and debt securities respectively. I'm glad that the committee, and therefore the Storting, joins in the change that is now taking place in both the reference index for debt securities and the geographical distribution for shares in the SPU. As also noted in the suspension, in the context of the State budget and the national budget, we will return to the so-called rebalancing and strategy of the State pension fund abroad. I'm glad the committee says they're meeting it, and then we're going to try to live up to the expectations. It is also important — as several have pointed out — that the Pension Fund, i.e. Both SPU and SPN are managed on behalf of the Norwegian population, and in this context, it is important both how we manage the wealth and how we spend the money spent on the state budget. Another important element is that we act as a responsible and long-term investor and do so in a way that also has a broad population anchor. The strategy we have for responsible investment is comprehensive, both nationally and internationally. I am pleased that there is support in the Committee for the Fund to be at the forefront in developing best practices in the area of responsible investment. The evaluation we carried out in 2009 focused on improving cooperation between the instruments of the Ethics Council and those for which the Bank of Norway is responsible. The new guidelines provide for this. I noticed that the minority – an overall opposition – wants a new assessment of alternative ways to organise the fund, i.e. SPU. I note that at the same time there is no consensus that the organisation should change, but only that it should be ‘assessed’. This is an important question, it was an important question that we discussed two years ago. The Ministry then concluded that today's organisational model is working well – no criticism has been raised against it either – and at the same time I showed that measures had been taken to strengthen the model further. We therefore saw no reason to separate the management of the SPU from the Norwegian Bank now, but we said at the same time that we cannot rule out that this assessment could be slightly different in time. I still believe this. So briefly about the document proposal: what is important to emphasise here is that Norway’s Bank has a climate as a focus on ownership. We participate in different international cooperation with other major financial investors to put it on the agenda. An example of this is the support for the so-called Forest Footprint Disclosure Project, which aims to increase reporting by companies active in the production of soya, palm oil, timber, kweg and biofuels. I am also aware that Norway’s Bank assesses whether and to what extent rain forest challenges should be addressed in the bank’s work on responsible investment practices and ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4752	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4755	Governments took up some pages around the Ethics Council, and there are therefore recommendations that have made some companies excluded from being in the portfolio of the oil fund. One of those companies is Wal-Mart. During the hearing on this matter in the Finance Committee, the Finance Minister stressed that it was interesting to be present in some companies, even though they could have ethics challenges, simply because being in the company could be a job improving the ethics problem, while if one was on the outside, there was no chance of it. Then the question is, why can't Wal-Mart be one of those companies where one actually sees that one can help improve workers' rights, instead of one – for important symbolic reasons for some parties – has chosen to exclude that particular company from the portfolio? Will the government periodically review the companies that have been excluded to see whether things may have changed and that they should be part of the investment portfolio anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4762	As I also said in the hearing that was in the Financial Committee, it is that when companies are excluded, it does not have to mean that they are excluded for all future. It also means that companies may be re-assessed, if they have changed their behaviour, or if the basis for the extension has changed. So -- yeah, you have an ex-post assessment of it, about possibilities in the future. As the representative also points out, there are different tools. One is extraction – as one does in several cases – the other is to put the company to observation, and the third is through ownership exercise, either through the Pension Fund alone or with other owners. One has different tools, and I think that's the right way to do it. One can also imagine that this is e.g. interaction opportunities through the various instruments at its disposal;
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4769	That you have different degrees, we're aware. The question here is why Wal-Mart has received the strict treatment, compared to that of the government, for example. chose to ignore the recommendation of the Ethics Council to exclude PetroChina — it probably has a political overtone when making such a decision, while one did not take it into account when dealing with Wal-Mart. Then the question is, when did one last review of the companies that have already been excluded? And what is the reason why in the Wal-Mart case he chooses to go to the strictest step – namely exclusion – instead of what you do in most other cases, rather than try to influence the company from within?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4776	I don't think it has any purpose to discuss individual matters and individual companies in Stortinget. We have a system in which the Ethics Council assesses the situation of individual companies, where the Ministry of Finance makes an independent decision based on the assessment given by the Ethics Council. In most cases one joins the Ethics Council's recommendation. In some cases, a slightly different approach has been chosen. I refer to the reasons given for the positions that you have taken in the various cases. It is NBIM, as an investor, that assesses on an ongoing basis which companies to invest in and which are also responsible for assessing whether a company has changed its behaviour in such a way that it may be appropriate to reopen investments in that company.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4783	With one of the world's largest funds in the back and ethical guidelines, it may be difficult to convince both countries and companies that the fund is not a foreign policy instrument. There is a broad political consensus in the Storting that it should not be a foreign policy instrument, but it is absolutely essential to keep your tongue in the mouth when communicating it outwards. I would therefore like to follow up on the issue raised by the representative Syversen in his statement, namely that the State Council, in its dialogue with India, used investments from the SPU as a moment in the discussion on Telenor's mobile concessions. My question is whether this was resolved with the Minister of Finance. Question no. 2 is if the Minister of Finance would recommend other government councils to use any investment from the SPU as a moment in this type of conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4790	I would also like to point out here what I said in the hearing with the committee when a similar question was asked, and just stress that the SPU is a financial, long-term investor, it is not a foreign policy tool. One had a connection to debt securities from a particular country in connection with an international boycott — but it was a completely different matter. My clear view of this is that it is, and it should be, in the future – it is not a foreign policy instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4795	I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance on this subject as an overall opposition, namely a dedicated investment programme for sustainable businesses and projects in poor countries and emerging markets. Then I would like to ask you this way: is such a thought something you have put into observation, is it something you have excluded, or is it something you actively intend to relate to?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4800	If I'm going to choose between the three terms that the representative uses, it's an area that's for observation -- with reference to the discussion that we had in connection with last year's message when it was up, when one discussed it and said that one was not now ready to enter emerging markets. It would primarily mean an investment in unlisted companies, with the challenges it brings. But I also want to point out that the change that one now makes in the indices will over time increase investment in emerging markets from 6 to 10 percentage points, and it is clear that as a get more developed markets in those countries, investment there will be relevant. In the meantime, we're going to use e.g. Norfund or other instruments we have for investment in the type of country the representative Syversen here refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4807	In my speech I quoted from the Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee, where he writes that he believes ‘It is not appropriate to allow Norway’s involvement in measures aimed at the conservation of rainforests to lead to a fundamentally different or more stringent treatment of companies operating in this sector’. I must almost ask the Minister of Finance to clarify what he means by this wording, in the light of the fact that the Stortinge grant billions annually for the conservation of rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4817	I can admit that in some cases you use languages that are a little attached to the industry you are in, namely the investor industry. The main point is that by purchasing shares in the secondary market they do not contribute to the expansion of the capital of the company in question so that, in view of this, they can expand their activities. As I have said, this is an area we're concerned about. You have e.g. excluded two Malaysian companies related to gross environmental damage in the rainforest. It is also the case that the Ethics Council is reviewing certain sectors and types of activity, where the risk of serious environmental damage is considered to be particularly high. It will include, for example: the area of illegal logging and other destructive logging, so that the theme is for discussion, inter alia: in the Ethics Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4823	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4839	The representation of the Bank of Norway is appointed by the Stortinget to supervise the operation of the bank under Section 5 of the Central Bank Act. The 2011 report gives a good picture of the priorities of the representation in the supervisory work. Periods of supervision specifically highlighted in the financial committee’s suspension during the examination of the corresponding report for 2010 are included in the supervisory review in 2011 and mentioned in the annual report. The Committee took note of this. The Committee is further concerned with maximum transparency in reporting on the activities of the Bank of Norway. This is not least the case in the administration of the State pension fund abroad, SPU. The Committee welcomes the fact that the representation has prioritised the supervision of capital management and that attention has been paid to a new mandate for the SPU and the development of investment in property. There is a great deal of attention about the management of the State pension fund abroad, on which we have just had a broader debate, both politically and otherwise in society. It is important that politicians and others feel confident that the management of the Fund is in line with current guidelines. The report of the representative body contributes to this. The Committee took note of the assessment by the Bureau that the established agreement on general principles for the exchange of information and coordination between the National Audit Office and the SPU Representation has served as a good basis for practical cooperation in 2011. This is reflected in the report, and it was confirmed by the head of the Bureau during the open consultation on the call for proposals on the management of the State pension fund abroad. The Committee supports the priorities of representation in the further supervisory work and that the supervision of capital management remains a high priority. It is also positive that other priority supervisory areas will be the central bank’s processes for responsible investment activities, transparency in public information and reporting, and the follow-up to returns and risks. This is in line with the Committee's commitment to maximum transparency in the external reporting on the activities of Norway's Bank, not least in the management of State pension funds abroad, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4850	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4865	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to 3 lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4874	We have a proposal from the Progress Party on efficiency gains in the public sector. The proposal is three-thirds, and I expect that the proposers themselves will take a closer look at the individual proposals. On a general basis, I do not think there is much disagreement that efficiency work in the public sector is important. In particular, it is important that citizens have confidence that the use of Community funds is optimal and provides good quality services. It is difficult to imagine that there should be any wish from any political team not to facilitate efficiency. I have the past as a local politician and rapporteur and remember very well that getting more for each krona was always central to both political and administrative work, simply because there was a shortage of resources – money, competence and labour. The driving force for this type of efficiency debate is not in closure threats or redundancies, no, rather it is such that if it is continuously sought for better ways of doing tasks, it frees both time and resources to provide better and more services to an unmet need. I have always had great respect for the tasks performed by municipal employees, and the way they are carried out, precisely because I know that it is constantly being looked at whether this can be done better. On the other hand, it is dangerous, and I think it works against its purpose, to suggest that there is virtually no efficiency work in the public sector. Several examples of a number of areas in which initiatives are taken to promote a more efficient use of public resources are referred to in the majority’s comments on this matter. Although not everyone in the committee subscribes to the majority's comment, it is expressed by the minority that it is agreed that much is being done today. Not least, it is noted that digitisation of public services contributes to a more efficient public sector by saving billions of dollars on not sending out ordinary letters. The digitisation also leads to the release of annual works – annual works that can be used for other demanding tasks. Reference is made to the modernisation of the ICT solutions in Nav and the work on the quality community programme, to mention some other measures. Finally, if we are to be able to maintain and continue to expand welfare services in Norway, it requires us to constantly search for ways to solve these tasks, both innovatively and as efficiently as possible. It is also important to listen to external recordings, such as: from the OECD. The national budget also refers to an overall review of public sector renewal. Having regard to the work being done, in departments, in municipalities and in other public sectors, the majority do not find reason to take decisions as requested by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4891	The proposal is based on a desire to use taxpayers' money more effectively. I fully agree with the case rapporteur when he says that this is important in order to maintain trust between taxpayers and the authorities, that the money is spent sensibly. It actually makes you pay your taxes, because you know that you get some good services back. Now we have a government budget that has reached over 1 000 billion. kr. Then I think it's weird if you give the impression that there's very little room here to make more efficient than what you do. The basis for this claim is as follows: One month ago, there was a good look-up in the NRC and in many other media that the academics had produced a report, from Menon, on public sector purchasing systems. The report showed that by improving the efficiency, you could save about 30 billion. kr. I think that's a formidable sum. It's absolutely worth looking at. A few weeks later, the party leader debate was on TV 2. The possibility of tax relief as an incentive to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry was then addressed. But instead of being met with a response, that here it is possible to streamline the public sector and free up money that can benefit business, the first thing the red-green politicians mention is: Yes, but then we have to cut in sick homes for the elderly. There is evidence of a lack of willingness and ability to actually look at efficiency measures in the public sector, when it comes to cutting off the most important tasks that can be publicly offered to the weakest part of our population, rather than looking at how to run the public sector more effectively. It is a clear signal for the Progress Party that the pleasant words that Torfinn Opheim brings here do not materialize in the will to actually do anything about it. You have a little too many interests – in trade unions and other things – and good jobs in the parties that sit and rule this country. In that case, it is actually better to use the state’s wealth to ‘properly’ inefficient systems than to reform, for reforms will face resistance among central government members of the Workers’ Party. The ability we have to actually spend taxpayers' money more effectively by being open and willing to do things in another way, by streamlining – not by whipping workers to work harder, but by working smarter – does not seem to be used well enough. This is where it's interesting to look at the OECD country report for Norway this year. There are many areas where one could have done something if it was political will, which would have made taxpayers' money more efficient – simply by thinking a little bit new and using new technology. That is why we are promoting this proposal. We do not disagree with the examples given by the rapporteur, but we think it is possible to do much more. This isn't a criticism; that everything is black, and that the government doesn't do anything, but there's going to be more to do. That is why we have promoted these three proposals – and I am addressing them in this regard. I hope that the other parties think this is interesting enough, and that you're willing to take this round. Among other things, we have to say that it should be an independent – as the media call it – efficiency police, or an efficiency unit. I think it's better to have a group that's stuck in the state, that works and becomes familiar with the systems in order to do something better with them than to pick up consultants at times. Then someone would say that this is done of course – now exaggerates the Progress Party. But it's enough to read the book to a former state councillor, who has now become state councillor again, Board Vegar Solhjell. He could tell how he felt to sit at the council meetings and see how all the departments and all the state councils defended it existing in the struggle to be the king of the heap when it came to appropriations, and not hand over their tasks to other departments, for here it was a hack order that one tried to attend to. As a government council, he was frustrated by the inability of the red-green government to actually reform the public sector. So it's an announcement from someone who thought he was done with the government, but who's now back in the state council. I think this is worth listening to. That is why I want this topic to be addressed a little more thoroughly – by adopting the proposals – than just getting a greeting for Christmas and a good New Year from the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4917	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4920	The public sector needs to be continuously reformed. It needs to be reformed through the day-to-day work – what is called everyday rationalisation – and through major system reforms. But the fact that the OECD is going to be a teacher for Norway in terms of how to reform the public sector, I strongly doubt. I believe that every country should reform according to its culture and its traditions, while at the same time looking at how others have done it. With regard to the efficiency of the public sector, which is a theme here today, there are both issues of getting a good quality of the services to be provided by the public sector and a discussion of what the public should not do. One should more fully question whether it is necessary for the public to interfere with as many tasks as they do, and whether one should, instead, focus more on developing the authoritative person, who can take more responsibility and thus reduce the public sector in this respect — that is, concentrate on what is most important. What's great about this setting is that the government parties have gone to work concretely and produced good examples of what can be done positively. I want first of all to refer to the State Loan Fund, which has shown that electronic services give them greater security and greater attention to key data that public needs to deal with applications and questions from people most, and that one through the electronic service equipment that is built has succeeded in getting higher quality, reduced processing time, saved money and saved annual work. At that time it is also central that the Ministry of Finance gives a handshake to public enterprises that do this, so that the public authorities have a motive to do it better. - What do I mean? Well, one should be left with some of the gain, which can be used for a continuous migration work within the organisation. There is too much of the gains made by public agencies through efficiency gains are being drawn. As a result, there is a lack of incentive in the organisation to continue this work. What is also a good example, and as government parties have developed, is what is happening in the municipal sector with the quality community programme Together on a better municipality. What's the great thing about that programme is that it's based on an organisational attitude, an organisational philosophy, that draws with the employees of the various local authorities, and thereby asks them: what is it that you can do to get a better quality job for a fairer money? It is an attitude that has been shown to deliver great, good results, and that is something we should stimulate to those degrees further, rather than using the systems related to consulting activities. Too many consultants are used, and public sector employees are given far too little attention. Staff attitudes, staff desire to improve, need to be stimulated. At that point, we have great, positive development opportunities, and that's part of the core of the red-green project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4931	I can assure both the proposer and others that getting the most out of the crowns is the Minister of Finance very much concerned. This is an important work for many reasons. I also read with interest the report that now came from the OECD, where a used term Value for Money. Getting the highest possible service output for the crowns is important. With all possible respect, it is not that there is a single great conspiracy between trade union movement and others that one should spend as much money as possible as effectively as possible. Rather, on the contrary, this is an important work that goes through both municipal and state activities. I also want to stress that Norway has a good public sector. One must not forget it in this discussion. We have a public sector with good employees, people who every day make an outstanding effort for the community, and a public sector that compares to most public sectors around the world. So we're going to be proud of the public sector we have, but at the same time, every day we have to be concerned that this is going to be even better. There has been a significant renewal, transformation, modernisation, in the public sector over the 1990s – a significant increase in efficiency and significant innovation both in the way of producing, in the way of organising businesses and at all events in the whole approach to public activities. I myself had the pleasure of launching the big – call it like – ICT project, the electronic project in the tax budget, which has led to significant simplification, both for the tax rate and for the individual citizen. Similar has happened in the customs office and in a wide range of public offices where one has introduced new technology, both to reach out to the people and to organise and operate the business in a more efficient way. Then I would like to stress that an important part of getting an efficient public sector resource use also depends on having the best decision-making basis, working on the decision-making basis for large investments through what is called the quality assurance system, that one goes through the different ways in which one can provide a decision-making basis for the Storting to make decisions on the best possible basis. I also want to say to the representative Lundtigen about the relationship between contributing to the community and keeping the money to itself, that there is an exercise in which the Minister of Finance is close on different occasions. I have a considerable sense of the carrot argument – that establishments or units that are willing to enter a conversion should, of course, be able to see that parts of the prize are used to further develop their own estate. We used that principle when we electronicized the tax rate, by having a significant share of the gain left in the tax rate, through, for example, the tax rate. strengthening control and other aspects of the tax system. It is a good idea, but at the same time a reasonable distribution between contributions to the community and contributions to its own establishment. Finally, I would also like to point out – as the rapporteur pointed out – that considerable work is being done on a daily basis in terms of improving the efficiency of the municipal sector. As a countyman, I followed this almost daily, so what one did in the individual municipalities, what one could do across municipalities, so that one used the opportunities one had to get municipalities to organize their business in a more efficient way. For example, in order to provide a concrete example, it could be through the use of new map data to improve planning, to improve interaction between enterprises and the municipality, through inter-municipal cooperation, cooperation on, for example: purchases etc. There's a lot of good examples out there. I can assure you that the Minister of Finance will follow and be a driver for the best possible use of public resources and resources. It was just supposed to be missing!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4955	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4958	Firstly, the undersigned did not claim that we should spend the money as efficiently as possible, as the Minister of Finance gave the impression. I think he should be a little neat when he reproduces what other speakers have said. The Progress Party spent a lot of time on the OECD report, as a starting point for this proposal. We referred to it both in the text of the proposal and in the vote. Then the question is, did the Minister of Finance himself find something that inspired him, or which they are going to follow up on in their efforts to streamline the public sector? Did he find any inspiration in those who have looked at us a little bit in the cards from the outside, which he would like to share with the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4965	I'm not going to spend a lot of time at the beginning, but I kind of put in a sense that one of the things that happened was that there were trade unions, central government members and others for one purpose: to spend as much money as possible in the least effective way. But now leave it. In the OECD report, there are two things that I want to highlight. One is the very approach to the concept of ‘Value for Money’, that one should set up the business so that one gets the most services out of the crowns that one inserts. In addition, I think the report underlines that much of what you are already doing in Norway is important. What we're doing on the ICT side, what we're doing with the quality assurance system for decision-making, are examples that we're very much in line with what we're working with internationally. It's the way we have to pick up both inspiration, learning and knowledge internationally. At the same time, we must apply this in Norway. We must then also build on Norwegian experiences and Norwegian opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4977	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e4993	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5002	Today, we have a proposal from the Progress Party to change the law to be adapted to international guidelines for amateur and professional boxing. The International Boxing Association has recently decided that no helmet boxing is permitted. Norway has banned professional boxing in Norway since 1981. In Europe, only Norway has a ban on professional boxing. Europe has a more stringent licensing system than the rest of the world, and there has been no death in Europe in professional boxing since 1985. The ban in Norway was thus introduced in 1981. The reason was the risk of medical adverse effects on the performer. Today, medical surveillance is strict, including in professional boxing. The Norwegian Boxing Association has thus, according to the proposers, been put in a difficult situation, which could lead to Norwegian amateur boxers not being given the opportunity to box in large international championships such as the World Cup, the Olympics and the European Championships, as a consequence of the fact that Norwegian boxers, under the Norwegian Boxing Association, do not have the opportunity to box without a helmet, either in Norway or abroad. As a result of the recent action taken by the International Linked Association, the Norwegian Board of Sports has proposed in its Decision of 3 May 2012 to repeal the Professional Boxing Act of 1981 and instead to make the knockout law applicable to professional boxing. The Decision repeals the distinction between amateur boxing and professional boxing, but does not change the legislation that boxing matches are subject to in Norway. The sports council has not taken a decision on any change to the regulation of the knockout law and writes in its opinion that the Norwegian Boxing Association itself must promote amendments to the Ministry of Culture, if they wish to change the regulation as a result of international regulatory changes in its sport. The Government has taken note of the decision of the sports board. The Government has also informed the Committee that it would like to establish a sample to look at the legal aspects of the possible merger of the Professional Boxing and Knockout Act. The selection will also examine the changes in the rules adopted by the International Boxing Association. The right considers Norwegian fighters must be given the same conditions as fighters in the rest of Europe. We believe that Stortinget should lift the ban and leave this to sport itself. We want the government to contribute to the same thing. With this, I address the proposal that the Right and the Advance Party have promoted in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5021	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5024	Once again, professional boxing is the theme of this hall. This time, the reasons given by the proposers are that the International Boxing Association has decided that if men are not allowed to box with helmets, the impact on Norwegian boxers will be considerable, which will not be able to participate in future major championships. But in Appendix 1 of our case papers, the Council of State states that the Department has been in contact with AIBA, the International Boxing Association, which states that they have not taken a decision on this. However, in the International Boxing Association, there is a process to assess whether, for example: men over 18 years of age shall box without a helmet. The associated statement is that a new strategy for amateur boxing has been adopted as of 2013. I think that the proposers are positive for professional boxing. But the approach to changing the law, in my view, becomes a little bit helpful when they choose to interpret decisions in the International Boxing Association as they do, with regard to helmet bans. Furthermore, the proposers are anchoring their position by pointing out that in their decision of 3 May this year, the sports board proposes to repeal the law prohibiting professional boxing. Neither do they meet here. The sports council would not decide if they would like to open up professional boxing in Norway, and they believe professional boxing must be subject to the knockout law and its safety provisions if the law were to be lifted by today’s debate. It is important to point out that the sports council in its decision did not decide whether any changes to the safety provision of the knockout law should be made. The proposers also ask the government to propose amendments to the legislation adapted to international rules on amateur boxing. The sports council did not take a direct position on this proposal. The Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee consider it natural that it is the special association in question, the Norwegian Boxing Association, which itself initiates any changes to the safety regulations resulting from international regulatory changes, whether they should come. The majority backs this view. To this end, the majority of the Committee takes note of the decision of the sports board and proposes the establishment of a selection to look at the legal aspects of any merger of the law prohibiting professional boxing and knockout. They will also provide the sample to examine the possible changes in the rules proposed by the International Boxing Association. Whether you're for or against professional boxing is about feelings and facts. When it comes to elucidating such things, we have the good tradition here at Stortinget that we politicians get through hearings to shed light on difficult questions from different sides. It is reassuring in front of political decisions. In our hearing we got to meet Cecilia Brekkhus, a very skilled and through professional sportswoman, and we heard her views on why we should lift the decision against professional boxing here in the country. It is understandable that she is disappointed not to be able to show up in front of a Norwegian audience. In the same hearing we also got insight into the second part of the boxing, namely the medical one. The special thing about boxing is that the very purpose is to damage the opponent, while in other sports you do everything you can to prevent damage, and punish both negligent and deliberate damage. After the hearing, I was positive about lifting the boxing ban here in the country, and I must honestly admit that in the previous round it was hard to press the red button and say no to professional boxing in the country. Some may claim that after the previous treatment, I have been down for count, how the long-term effect of my boxing exposure has made me slow, but certainly began to think through the message from our leading medical experts in this area and what they said in the hearing. Today, my attitude towards professional boxing has turned from being too against, one and only because I believe in the medical expertise and what they say. It is confirmed every time I see a boxing match on TV, where you see in a slow film how the battle reproduces through your head. Some claim it's beautiful – I don't share that point of view anymore. Nor am I disappointed that we are perhaps one of the few countries in the world that have the legislation we have. In this case it is presented by the proposers that if Norwegian boxers do not get boxes without helmets, it would be problematic to be boxes in Norway. It's possible, but I don't believe it. Speaking of helmet: in my simplicity I have often wondered why there are rules to protect what is under the belt, while the head should be unprotected. It becomes to me a great paradox that repeated beatings during the seat belt cause one to be judged out of the fight, while the knockout on the head is performed as aesthetically and beautifully, even though the opponent at best is sent to dreamland and at worst over to eternity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5039	I'm going to admit that I'm getting pretty scared when politicians take on the role of ethics preachers and take the role of moral police over which of the individual's interests are good or bad, which should be legal or not. In this case, both concrete facts and statistics, medical claims and physical consequences are argued, but also with a happy mix of the subjective opinions of individual politicians on what sport implies, perception of what sport's purpose actually is, and, as the previous speaker himself said, a 'it's hard to look at, we don't like it, so we ban' attitudes. Although we are run by a left-wing government here in the country, I would assume that they still feel a certain distance from the governments we see in Cuba, North Korea and Iran. Then it's a little suspicious that it's the only countries in the world where we find other politicians who have the same thinking and attitude on this issue, like our government. When it comes to the medical argument, one sees clearly that many of the participants in the debate have chosen to rely on a little simple rhetoric such as that sport has a blow to its head, and therefore is dangerous. But then it is strange that both amateur boxing, judo, karate, kickboxing and other sports are legal. They have the same number of strokes, and they also kick their heads, and they're not talking about banning them. Furthermore, it can be seen that the main distinction between amateur and professional boxing today is the use of helmets. So we can assume that the main argument for the government is that you don't want to remove this helmet. That's in and of itself quite strange, because we know that 95 pst. by the kinetic energy of an actual kind is determined by the thickness of the glove and that it is only 5 pst. by the force of the impact determined by whether or not you have a helmet. Then I wonder if it's the last five percent that's heavy on the scale of whether this sport is dangerous enough to have or not. A very widely used argument in this debate is that the ban should apply due to the extent of the damage you see in the sport. Then I wonder if they also intend to ban the other sports that have a much greater damage in Norway today, for example. rugby. They have far more spinal injuries, head injuries and deaths in this sport in Norway than do professionals at international level. Does the government want this to be banned for that reason? As mentioned at the outset, there are also very many who are trying to argue from an ethical or moral perspective in this matter. My opinion is that this is a rather simplistic and disrespectful way of seeing the sport in relation to the many hundreds of skilled practitioners we have here in Norway. A French sociologist — who really had this position initially — wanted to get under the skin of this environment and investigate what the professional boxing environment actually meant. What he describes in his work, both through his experience and in over fifty interviews with people in and outside of this environment, is that there is an enormous amount of mutual respect between the practitioners, it is discipline, it is understanding one another, and there is a physical and mental strength on the performers that is extremely important. For the perpetrators themselves, the sport does not deal with violence or with the greatest possible impact on the head. This is about a sport, a craft that combines strength, strategy and technical skills at a high level. It takes years of training to master the many forms of this discipline. Simplifying this by saying that it's about hitting each other in the head, at best testifying about ignorance, ignorance, but also, unfortunately, a pre-judgment of a whole sport and hundreds of great sportsmen in Norway. We in the Progress Party propose legalizing pro boxing – not because we glorify violence, not because we want people to hurt themselves, not because battles against their heads are good, but because boxing in almost every country in the world is allowed, accepted and respected, because we know that the medical aspect is taken care of, and because we know and believe that the socialists' desperate desire to be moral judges against the individual's own choices and for what they want to do is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5062	As surely as SV is proposing the introduction of republican state form, proposals are being made from the right on the lifting of the ban on professional boxing in Norway. It is only one year since the last debate was taken in this Chamber – this time correctly with a slightly different device in the text of the proposal. Now the representative Simensen gave a good account of the majority's views, so I want to make some general remarks about pro boxing and banning it. The reason for the imposition of the ban in its time was the risk of medical adverse effects. This argument has in no way disappeared, even though the representative Hanekamhaug is trying to say something else. Few claim that boxing is not associated with a major risk of injury. We are still receiving new evidence to show how extensive and serious the damage can be. This is serious medical research. It is always stated that other sports are also associated with risk, but there is a difference in physicality between sports where, as a result of the performance, injury can be experienced, and a sport where the purpose of the sport is to cause other harm, and in brackets noted, of course even avoiding Christmas and thus injury. In other straps, there is a great deal of damage prevention – it should be a goal to avoid damage. To quote the indent of an article by Lehmann in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal in March 2011: ‘The aim of pro boxing is to hit the opponent so hard that he falls unconsciously over the end and cannot stand up in 10 seconds.’ - That's what's knockout. In addition, it says: ‘In two recent reports, there is evidence of a high risk of brain damage by prof boxing.’ Studies show that there is a high incidence of serious brain damage and that the risk increases with the length of the career, the number of strokes to the head and the number of lost battles. It is shown, among others: to acutely increased brain pressure and cerebral bleeding, prolonged outcome of neurophysiological and neuropsychological tests and permanent damage such as Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s disease and other dementia. 10-20 pst. of professional fighters have neuropsychiatric sequencing — it is a relatively high proportion. This time, too, the text of the note, and repeated by the case-rapporteur and representative Hanekamhaug, show that Norway is the only country in Europe that has a ban on professional boxing. If Iceland has not recently lifted this, they still have a ban there. I would also like to remind you that Sweden had a ban until 1 January 2007. They then opened for a milder form of professional boxing with strict equipment requirements, e.g. for gloves, combat execution and licensing. Anyway, I don't think the argument that everyone else is allowed is particularly good. I believe that the medical reports are so unambiguous and so serious in their conclusion that we should continue to maintain the ban on professional boxing. It is also in line with the work of the World Medical Association for a ban on professional boxing. By prohibiting professional boxing in Norway, we also give a signal that this is not primarily a sport for which we want new recruiting, precisely because the extent of the damage is so large, and that the whole purpose is to exert violence against others. One can say in many ways that Norway is a country of the past, instead of saying that we're the only ones who have a ban and that it's negative. However, I would like to support what is now the majority proposal that an assessment be made of any changes to the law, cf. The decision of the Norwegian Sports Association of 3 May this year to propose the repeal of the Professional Boxer Act and instead subject to pro boxing knockout law. It is then important that we have impact assessments and that any legislative changes then need to be assessed against what health consequences the changes may have for the practitioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5090	This is a discussion that has been going on since we got a law against professional boxing in Norway. Since then sports have changed. The distinction between being a professional sportsman and an amateur is not the same as it was at the beginning of the 1980s. Therefore, there is reason to take a close look at what is proposed by the Norwegian Sports Association. They do not propose to specifically allow professional fights without safety equipment in Norway. But what they're suggesting is that the law that applies to all other martial arts, namely the knockout law, should also be the law that applies to boxing. So the law of professional boxing is repealed and it is subject to the same approval system as other martial arts, like full contact karate, like Taekwondo, as kickboxing. I think that's a proposal that's good reason to look at. There will be medical experts who decide which sportsmen are allowed to knock out and who become legal in Norway. That is why we want to examine this proposal. But it is not that it automatically grants approval for all types of martial arts. It's e.g. so that the Norwegian Muay Thai Association applied for authorisation in Norway and did not receive it from the Knockout Study. But I want to figure this out as an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5097	Norway has world championship belts in WBA, WBC, WBO and WPBF, and there are many proud ones. Norway’s best boxes do not hide the fact that it is a bit painful not to be allowed to exercise her sport at home, and that she can risk being prosecuted for what is legal in the rest of the world. This situation may seem a little absurd and unreal to many. Boxing is not a sport for everyone! Norway can go ahead as a good example and take the safety and safety of the boxes to completely new levels, but then we have to discuss it, we have to be where it happens. We must also be able to allow it in Norway. Norway, North Korea and Cuba, as mentioned earlier, are the only countries in the world that prohibit pro-boking. If Norway repeals the ban, we may have a positive impact on sport, especially in the areas I mentioned. I believe that the sport has evolved violently – which was also the subject of the Council of State – from 1981. This applies both to practitioners and to follow-up at the medical level. I understand that there are several things that need to be in place to allow professional boxing in Norway, and that the medical follow-up of the boxes should be good. The fact that the organisation complies with the rules of the NIF should be a matter of course. In addition, that there must be fair play, so that there are no boxing matches that practice does not have a real chance to win, is also a matter of course for me. It is difficult to document adverse effects in Norway, but much has been done in Sweden, Finland and Denmark. We would also have had the opportunity if it had been allowed to work in Norway. We have eight professionals, but we don't have a mandate to follow them up. How can Norwegian politicians view it and think it is a good solution? Cecilia Brekhus – licensed in Germany – must be followed up there. It's zero control from Norway. Is it not a bit of a point that Norway should follow its own practitioners? Had connected to law, they would have introduced a stricter medical follow-up than the rest of the world. They have competence, they have expertise, and they have medical devices available to enable them to do so. And where are those professional boxes being treated today? Well, it's abroad, where we don't have any control.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5112	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5126	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5135	The Committee has examined Document 8:103 S for 2011-2012, from the Left, on a grant scheme for young cultural talents. Norway has many young exciting talents in music, dance, drama and visual art that also – some of them at least – travel abroad to strengthen their competence. The proposers consider that there are not enough arrangements to enable those in need of financial support to apply for support for such stays. Although there are not so many common comments from the entire committee in the vote, I understand that there is a broad consensus that there is a desire to facilitate talents in Norwegian cultural life. We see correctly that there are shades in the use of words. While opposition parties say that it is a goal for Norwegian cultural policy to develop the talents, the government parties say that it is important to take care of the talents. But the whole committee sees the value of young talents in these fields travelling abroad for shorter or longer schooling in their arts. There will always be economic challenges related to developing your talent and getting the education you want if you want to run professionally. It may be linked to the purchase of instruments or access to instruments, it may be the teaching of the best teachers, and it may be linked to the desire to study abroad. Then it must be a political goal to reduce these barriers, so that there is more opportunity to develop their talent across social divides and economic backgrounds. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right, supports the proposal to ask the Government to propose the establishment of a youth scholarship for young cultural talents of school age in the fields of music, dance, drama and visual art. The Right and Christian People's Party also agree on the proposal asking the government to develop a comprehensive strategy for talent development, covering the whole process of development from childhood to completion of education. I expect that the parties themselves will deepen their vision. For my own part, I would like to stress that the internationalisation of cultural life, also through the fact that Norwegian artists take education abroad, is of great value in itself. We should therefore extend even a little longer to facilitate that more young talents can have that opportunity for a short or longer time. I would also like to mention that the Swedish Cultural School Council last week arranged the distribution of the Dream School, which is a scholarship for particularly skilled cultural students around the country. The exhibition we saw there was a fantastic illustration of how many young talented talents we have in Norwegian culture. When these talents develop, they are of great value to themselves, they represent role models to others, and they also contribute to the promotion and presentation of Norway in an international context. Not least they all give us the opportunity to experience art and culture at a high level. I address the proposals that I referred to, and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5154	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5157	I agree with the rapporteur's views on this, and I think it's wonderfully funny that we have a whole generation of young musicians in this country who make such a great impression in a larger context. It is no more than a couple of weeks since Eivind Ringstad on the steep score at the top of European competition. We've also had irons in the past that have applied in these contexts. Common to those we know – the Hemsing sisters are, for example, Well known – it's mostly that they've all gone to the Barrat Due Music Institute. Then you can ask, why is Barrat Due such a star factory? Of course they are because they are very good. But they're also because they're the only people in this country who give access to international teachers. They're the only ones who invite top teachers from international universities for musicians to come to Oslo and play with their students and give them master classes to make the students familiar with the opportunities that exist out there. Norway's high school of music also has a talent development programme, but not an internationalized one. Both Norway’s high school music and Barrat Due have their own programmes alongside their usual school activities aimed at special talents. There you will find people who travel to Oslo – I know, for example. to someone who every fourteen days flies from Alta to Oslo for hours, and is so small that they have come with their mother or father. It is clear that it costs a lot of money if you want to follow up such a race. Where the sport has an apparatus around its stars in the form of sports teams and well-organized activities with a lot of volunteering, the musicians often stand a little alone. It's not that kind of organisation of music life, nor are there traditions to get these to their rescue. If you're going to throw yourself into a racetrack, maybe with a soloist job as a future, and if you're going to go into the courses that it's about – it's often a summer course, where you also meet international teachers – Stavanger Chamber Music Course and Valdres Sommersymphony, which is also behind Barrat Due, examples – you have to afford to go there, you have to afford to live there, maybe also because of parents. As far as the arts are concerned, we're not very good at dealing with these. Within the dance area, for example, there is no offer. The right has proposed to put in place a mechanism for this in the context of the State budget. With regard to the other arts, within the field of visual arts, I have no idea of any example of having good teaching powers, other than having to contact them directly. I don't know any organized arrangements for that. Of course, there may be, although I don't know about it, but at least I haven't heard much about it. In short, we don't have a system in Norway that takes care of the very few we're talking about and that gives them meeting points with the necessary knowledge. Cultural schools have pointed this out several times. Norwegian cultural school councils are concerned with this issue and are looking for opportunities and resources. The closest they come is what we have on music, preferably in the classical field, or maybe also in jazz – what Norway's music high school and Barratt Due offer. Right-wing thinks it's necessary for us to get a complete grip on this. It should be a task for the Ministry of Culture to see how to create a strategy, a comprehensive run with a varied menu of options that you can take advantage of. The possibilities we have today are related to the systems of the Ministry of Knowledge. It's targeting students first and foremost, and that's not enough in this context. This is a race that begins at a much younger age. That's why we've been working for such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5176	It is statutory for all municipalities to have a cultural school offer. Since then, the cultural school has had a large growth and a positive development in the municipalities. This means that the cultural school has a great responsibility in the community to offer a good offer to young talent. A large part of the educational offer in the cultural school must be to develop young talents. It is problematic when cultural schools run the community rather than cooperate closely. The content of a cultural school is the principal's responsibility, but it's too random how the individual principal runs the cultural school. I've heard evil tongues say that a cultural school for a principal is like a toy gate. It often reflects the principal’s own musical field – and it must be wrong. It has to be that you look at what you want around communities, what you want to specialise in – and not at the principal's wishes alone. It's municipal government, and I think the municipalities should be more aware of that. Already there is a way to develop the talents. There does not have to be a contrast between cultural talents such as distinguished social navigators and cultural talents such as distinguished young, new creators. But entrenched notions about what is appropriate are not what promotes creative desire in the young burning and longing souls. Norwegian cultural life is caught in a rigid, narrow framework that provides leadership for the development of cultural life, in my opinion. Cultural life is trapped in a political coercion, where decisions govern at the expense of creativity. The concentration of power that has been generated around the Culture Council and the Oslo Department may be detrimental to the development of young cultural talents. Few people make big decisions, often based on subjective interpretations of what is good and less good culture. This is what has developed a tradition of walking in the same tracks year after year, where the renewal is sacrificed on the altar of habit. What about distributing a greater share of cultural power, what about distributing several cultural resources to the municipalities, where the young cultural talents live? That's where you have contact with them. There are few cultural talents in the Council of Culture or in the Department – they are in the municipalities. Decentralisation of power can lead to local young cultural talents being given the opportunity to prove that they have the right to life. Despite the increase in the budget for art and culture, it is not enough for everyone seeking support. 90 pst. the applications are not accepted, and for those who are refused, there is often a need to know the reasons and to see why they are refused. The promotion of talent in the arts is about an overall race from young age – it is said from the age of 5–6 – and until the end of cultural education. If conditions are to be optimised, a number of measures related to cultural schools are required, including: competence, availability, good teaching skills and not least a talent development programme. A problem that I think is big is when the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Knowledge and KS on behalf of Norwegian municipalities do not later cooperate on this with talent development programmes. Many young talents in music, dance, drama and visual art travel abroad to get shorter or longer education in their arts if they have financial resources to do so. It's on the economy, as it often does in society, but if we channel it right, I think we can get more out of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5193	When I read the comments from the government parties, I'm not sure if they understood what we meant in the proposal. When I heard the post from the representative Ib Thomsen, I was absolutely sure he had not understood what we meant by the proposal. That's why I'm very pleased that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have understood what we mean by the proposal, and have actually processed it, in my opinion. I want the committee to roll back to a movie most people probably have seen -- the movie about Billy Elliot -- the story of the working class boy growing up in a world where no one fully understands his art, but where he gets the opportunity to pursue his talent. That's what this is about here. It's about the kids that we sometimes see have exceptional abilities, and to whom we should pursue the talent, but who don't get opportunity because they don't have a mother and a father with a big wallet ready, or a mother and a father who always understand how important it is to pursue their talent. The last time we discussed a big message from the government, we talked about cohesion, about the possibility of access to culture for everyone. This is a concrete proposal on that very point. This is about all of the kids who never get the opportunity to take a sneezing class in Canada when they're 12 years old -- you've actually been taken out for that, but Mom and Dad can't afford it -- or a new Billy Elliot. I talked to a mother here by day – the son had come into a reputable ballet school abroad, but she saw no chance to afford to let him pursue that dream. That's what this is about. It's about persecuting dreams. It's about the possibility of pursuing their talent so socially balanced that everyone should be able to do it. It's not about the great hordes, but it's about the talents that suddenly appear, the ones that bring us great art and great culture because they have a talent that someone finds and that someone will bring on. That is what this proposal is about. I am very happy to receive support from the Right and Christian People's Party. I believe that they have processed the proposal we have, so we are going to support it as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5206	Talent development and the processing of those who will become artists in the future at an early age are something cultural schools are increasingly working on. A few years ago, there was probably a greater tendency for everyone to get the same education no matter how great an artist's potential, but the cultural schools have become better at following up especially those who have great talents. That doesn't mean everyone gets the follow-up they should have. I think that development is moving towards the fact that the municipal cultural schools also recognise the great talents and their special needs for development. Then I just have to say that Billy Elliot is my favorite film, precisely because it shows that the talent can come from the whole population, and then it's about making us in our policy to facilitate everyone's participation in leisure activities. But this proposal has some good sides and some sides that for me are a little unclear. First of all, we are now changing the scholarship policy for newly educated art students. It has so far been targeted at some types of higher education. If you go to these and only in educational places in Norway, you get a scholarship. Some have automatically received NOK 100000 because of the training they have chosen, although they have not chosen to establish themselves as artists, while those who have studied abroad have not been given the opportunity to apply for these scholarships, even though they have established themselves as independent artists in Norway. That's why we're now using this money in a much fairer way, and we're making a scholarship for newly educated artists anyway, whether they've studied in Norway or abroad. It's a searchable scholarship that's going to be more fair. There are many of the foreign education courses that hold a very high level, but it is also true that some people are involved in art training that is not eligible in the Loan Fund. I don't think anyone, either from the opposition or the government parties, thinks that there should be some automation in which places of study to be supported, and that there is something that you automatically get when you choose, no matter what kind of education it is. By that I don't want to say that the rules of the Loan Fund are perfect in any case, and that in any case you have found the right education to be supported, because sometimes it's not right to get support from the State Loan Fund for education even if you've been involved in an art education abroad. Not all of them are keeping the right level. We also need to be aware of that. I'm happy for everyone who takes art education, but the competition is now much harder than before. When we made guarantee income in the 1970s, the idea was that everyone who trained as an artist would automatically receive income from the state. But when we do an education now and see what the newly educated in the visual arts field are doing, 70 pst. after five years with something next to it. That's also the reality they're going to go into. We want to have a dialogue with art education about how to better facilitate the start of your own business, your own entrepreneurship, when you finish your education. So the question of en route scholarships. This is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, as it is the case in Norway. It's not like that in Denmark. There is no responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge for the arts education, which lies below the Ministry of Culture. However, in Norway there is a distinction between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Knowledge on the one hand and the Ministry of Culture on the other. As far as our scholarship schemes are concerned, they are aimed at newly educated artists. On the other hand, we have some very good schemes, the Dream Grant, which are kind of stimuli. But this money doesn't give enough money to take on an education abroad. It is a good initiative, but there is a lack of concreteity. We will be working towards the Cultural Promise III, looking at various forms of talent development that can help us to raise talents from all parts of the population. One concrete example is what the Norwegian Theatre is doing. If you look at those who attend theatre education/theatre folk college, almost no one has a minority background. Now they're making their own school to get more from our minorities up on stage, and it's a very good initiative that just helps to raise artists from the whole population.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5228	I am pleased that the Council of State thinks this is positive. I read your proposal that what we're talking about is not the arrangements that are about the established students. The arrangement we're talking about now, is about children, about younger children. The feedback from cultural schools is quite unison, it's that you see the talents when they're 10-12 years old. From 12 to 14–15 are critical years in relation to the skills you need to build up to reach the peak. It's those years -- it's the way from the cultural school to the talent development program of the Academy of Music, or programs that don't exist on other arts -- we're talking about. It's the 10–15 pieces that are being accepted today at Barratt Due, and it's maybe the 10–15 pieces that go to the Musikkhögskole, we're talking about. The question is, are we to believe that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education? Or is it the Ministry of Culture's responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5237	The entire government is responsible for cultural policy. But until now there has been a division of labour between the Ministry of Knowledge on the one hand and the Ministry of Culture on the other. Application for funds from, inter alia: Barratt Due has been addressed to the Ministry of Knowledge. I would like to discuss with the Minister of Knowledge whether we are going to make the Cultural Promise III, and how we can contribute to even better talent development. But as of today, these arrangements are in the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5245	It is almost tempting to ask why the Minister of Culture is here and answers, for she has clearly not read the proposal. This is not about adult students and the Loan Fund, this is about children of school age. It is explicitly stated in the proposal. It is perhaps the Minister of Education who should have been here, if the Council of State has no ambitions for this group. The goal is to be a system where everyone has access, but that one also sees talents in this age group. Or is it that in the world of the Council of State there are no talents so young?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5250	If the representative Skei Grande had listened to my post, she would have heard that I was just talking about talents of school age. But what I also talked about was what is the division of responsibility between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture. That should have been known to the representative of the Skei Grande as well. It is clear that we are responsible for government policy as a whole, but until now the division of labour has been such that the Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for the cultural schools, i.e. the arts education – not in all other countries, but this is the case in Norway – and then the Ministry of Culture is responsible for grant schemes for those who have been trained.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5255	It is not the Left who has asked which committee this would be dealt with in, or which state council would come. The government fully decides that you want to stay with the Minister of Culture if it is not the Minister of Culture's responsibility. But what I'm asking is, why does the Minister of Culture think it's so important to give an average to everyone without even helping the talents? It's okay that all kids should learn enough guitars to be able to pull ladies on a aftergame, but the point is that you should also be able to develop some talents sometimes. They're acting quite unexpectedly, they're not acting systematically. In some coals there may be no ballet talent, in some coals maybe ten ballet talents — throughout Norway as a nation. Then you have to have systems based on the individuals, and not the mass systems that are for everyone to learn a little culture. Why doesn't the Council of State see the value of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5262	I'm just seeing the value of that. I started my post by saying that people go into the cultural school with different degrees of talent. Some are very skilled and require special follow-up, while others are going to learn art more for home use. I believe that we should facilitate this in cultural school policy in the future. Some of the projects that we have supported through the development of the cultural schools are just about giving a more differentiated offer in the cultural school.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5267	I understand, of course, that it is the Ministry of Education that deals with scholarships and education in that way. But what we're talking about now is in many ways seeing it in the extension of the cultural schools. The cultural schools represent the amazing width, which has given the basis for finding the few that we're now talking about. We have e.g. a cultural school development programme. The State contributions to the cultural school go to the Norwegian Cultural School Council as joint development programmes. Could talent development not be part of such a programme and thus be managed by the Ministry of Culture? I have to say that the experience with the Ministry of Knowledge in the field of cultural policy is not particularly uplifting. It would have been much safer if it were Huitfeldt's councillor to handle this, than Halvorsen's councillor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5272	I have learned that when I get compliments from the opposition, I get it only to the extent that it intends to harm others, and we now got a very clear example of this. I and the Minister of Knowledge have a very good cooperation in the field of cultural schools. But there are major challenges, mainly because there are more people who want to be trained in the cultural schools. It's almost like the more hours you set up, the greater the demand. It will be a priority area for us in the time to come. It's about giving a lot of access to education, perhaps through schools, but also developing the individual talent and getting it out regardless of which social part of the population they come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5279	I would like to ask quite specifically: What does the Council of State think that I should say to the mother I spoke to on Saturday, who has a son who is so talented in ballet that he has come into a school abroad – not a regular elementary school abroad – to pursue his talent? Starting to stretch muscles when you're 18-19 years old is a little pointless. Both I and Mrs. Huitfeldt understand that. And what should I say to the family where the 12-year-old has entered a new circus school in Canada this summer, but who does not get the opportunity because Mom and Dad can't afford neither a school year abroad nor a summer stay at a new circus school in Canada?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5284	I thank the representative for calling me Mrs. Huitfeldt – it's a favorite way to talk about me. Secondly, I would like to say that I do not know what kind of loan fund support schemes exist for this single school. But sometimes it is not well enough justified which places of study are refused. Sometimes there may be grounds for amending the legislation in this area. In many cases, new types of art training have been established which should be eligible. This is a matter that may be raised with the Ministry of Knowledge and see if the legislation in the Loan Fund is good enough with regard to this school. But it's not sure that it always is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5291	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5307	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5316	Today we have a proposal from the Left on equal treatment of centres of excellence for rhythmic music. On the right, this is a good initiative from the Left. Today, all regional centres of competence for jazz music receive permanent state grants from the State budget, but this is not the practice of regional centres of competence for rhythmic music. Competence centres for rhythmic music should be equalised and should receive annual government grants for operation. Regional centres of excellence shall develop the industry and the music environments. The main objective is professionalisation of the industry and ensuring recruitment, innovation and diversity. Competence centres of this type are currently located in six Norwegian cities and are under construction in Eastfold. They receive municipal and county grants and project grants from private and public partners. A State operating grant to that type of rhythmic music competence centre is a good and effective investment to develop business potential, competence, networks, infrastructure, innovation and musical diversity in the rhythmic field of music in the regions. In order to strengthen and ensure the continuation of the important work of centres of excellence throughout the country, these centres must have predictable and equal operating conditions. The issue raised here in the draft representative was discussed by the Løken Committee, mentioned in St.meld. No 21 for 2007-2008. Here it is said that the department is aware that regional centres of excellence for rhythmic music do not have equal funding conditions. The onion committee made good judgements, which a unanimous committee supports in setting up the same notification. The aim was to strengthen the different centres of expertise for rhythmic music. The right, like the Left, sees the need to support the principles of non-discrimination between centres of excellence independent of rhythmic music genres and the use of objective award criteria. The government refers to the fact that from 2009 the centres of competence for rhythmic music received grants over chapters. 320, entry 74, which from 2010 is managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council. The government further indicates that the scheme is under evaluation and that a report will be available before the summer. In view of this, no consideration will be given to the proposals. On the right, the centres of expertise for rhythmic music are important for the development of the music industry and for the creation of innovation, diversity and increased private value creation. The right therefore supports the proposals from the Left, and I include these in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5340	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5343	Through the cultural promise, the government has made a good contribution to Norwegian music. We have purchasing arrangements for phonograms, digital dissemination, support for venues, local organisers, festivals, and much more. It has been a significant increase in the years we have governed cultural policy, and for 2012 music becomes the largest provision by the Council of Culture. The total increase in the field of music during the period we have managed, including provisions at the Swedish Council of Culture, is 554.1 million. kr. Rhythmic music is a very important genre within cultural life, and the development of networks of competence and competences is important for the field and for cultural life as a whole. But I agree with the Council of State in her letter of reply that it is important to look at both the strengths and weaknesses of the scheme and to wait to adopt concrete proposals before one has completed the evaluation of the scheme – this is because we want it to be objective and best for the actors and cultural life. Therefore, the majority in the Committee will not prejudge the evaluation. The rhythmic centres of competence and the networks of competences are important, and I think that the government has taken important steps in the field of rhythmic music, among other things. through the collapsing message ‘Interplay A rise for rhythmic music’, which was the first big shot in this field ever. The different networks of competences are combined with different history, with different anchoring and different purposes, and it is important, in the view of the majority, to find out whether one has achieved the goals that one has seen and what can be done in order to make the system work optimally. So even if the proposals that are here today can be both good and sensible, I'm busy having a thorough review of the system, so that we get a good knowledge of how the system has worked, which will give us good lessons about how it should work. When one has seen such an evaluation, I want to see what one comes up. I also look forward to the follow-up of this evaluation by the government. Otherwise, I would just like to refer to the Council's letter of reply to the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5354	As a cultural politician for Oslo, I have to say that the rhythmic centres have been very important for the development of cultural life in Oslo, for the festival life in Oslo and as a driving force for cultural policy in the region. There we see that they play a crucial role around the country. It must also be admitted that cultural politicians from other parts of the country have envied the possibility of having such engines as the rhythmic centres can be. From that point of view, we in the Left have decided that we believe that it must be non-discrimination. We are also proposing this in our budgets, but we are also proposing in a Document 8 that we should have such equal treatment. I am pleased that we are supported by the Right and the Advance Party. The right also supports the introduction of legislation that makes this fair. The rhythmic music has a way of being organized that is more demanding than many of the other genres of music, which in a few hundred years have ended up in good forms of communication, training and development. But the rhythmic music, with all its spectrum, has other ways to arise, grow on and evolve. Therefore, the other kind of follow-up is needed. In this way, the rhythmic centers have worked very well, and that's something I like the whole country to get. That was why we wanted to promote this proposal in the Chamber. We're going to follow this up further, both in budgets and in other contexts where we have the opportunity to influence. For us, it is important that the public act equally around the country, cf. the previous case. It is important that the public has good support, so that we don't get a clean ‘shipowner-driven cultural policy’ – I think it was the Council of State that used those words once – so that people don't have to call the rich to get help for their projects. In this way, it is important that the public act fairly with the various measures that are in place, and it is important that we also act in a socially equal way when we see that there are important challenges to be faced. That is why the Left presented the two proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5367	Since we took over in 2005, this government has worked hard to equalise the different genres in the field of music. In this context, professionalisation and empowerment in the rhythmic field have been very important. In line with the big message we call the interaction message, funds are made available for developing centres of expertise for rhythmic music. The aim is to contribute to nationwide networks of centres of excellence and networks in the field of rhythmology. In 2012, it was set at 5.3 million. kr, divided into six regional networks of competences of Norwegian Cultural Councils. These networks are composed of different genre centres within rock, folk, jazz, different stakeholder organisations and festivals. The grant scheme managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council is based on a thought that development of competences should take place through already established structures in the regions. Provision has been made for the grant to be made for development of competences. The regional competence networks shall provide a support apparatus for professional practitioners and practitioners in the start-up phase, irrespective of the musical expression. Coordination and cooperation across and beyond the rhythmic field is emphasised. No grants have been granted for the operation of new centres of excellence according to St.meld No. 21 for 2007-2008 Interaction. However, the operating grants to already established and functioning centres and networks have been continued as existing structures with competences that it is important to take care of. Norwegian Cultural Councils have managed the provision of centres of excellence for rhythmic music since 2010. The operating grant of four of the five jazz centres and BRAK is also granted under heading 74 of the Norwegian Cultural Council. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, the Council of Culture has launched an evaluation of the regional centres of excellence for rhythmic music and grant schemes, and they will look at objectives, resources, processes and results. They shall look at target groups and professional and organisational solutions. The results obtained should also be highlighted and they should also be presented with proposals for amendments. I know that there is a strong desire for operating support from several genre centers in the regions and especially in rock and folk music. Applications come from both centres which form part of the six regional genre-wide competence networks, as well as from centres and actors seeking their own independent solutions in the field of competence. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that this evaluation report should not be pre-empted. In this area, there are many different actors, and equal treatment is not necessarily the same for all. The evaluation report, after being quality assured by the Council of Culture, will be reviewed and evaluated. We want to find good solutions for the important work on professionalising music genres and to have a good nationwide support device for professional practitioners and practitioners in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5390	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5404	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5413	The size is today invited to agree on the right to raise loans and to collect tolls for partial toll financing of RVs. 13, the Ryfyl compound, also called Ryfast. At the same time, a management and cost framework is provided for the E39 Eiganes Tunnel project. Together with the Owners' Tunnel, Ryfast will provide a ferry-free road link between the North Juice and the Ryfylke. This means that the ferry service Stavanger-Tau and Lauvik-Oanes will be closed when Ryfast opens. Ryfast consists mainly of two underground double-run tunnels: the tunnel between E39 in Stavanger and Hundvåg, Hundvågtunnel, at 5.7 km, and the tunnel between Hundvåg and Solbakk in Strand kommune, Solbakktunnelen, which is 14.3 km long. The management framework for the project is 5,220 million. NOK 5,950 million. kr. Rogaland County Municipality and Stavanger Municipality have taken guarantee decisions for a maximum toll loan of 6 billion in total. kr for 30 years, divided by 70 pst. on the county council and 30 pst. in the municipality. The financing plan for Ryfast includes tolls and local subsidies from the county, municipalities and local businesses. It is also worth noting that there is no government co-financing. It has not closed me down as a case spokesman to get a full deal in this matter, even though the Committee's atmosphere has been both good and constructive. The Committee has, through its management, yet with shared recommendations, where the great plurality, Labour Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, recommends that Ryfast be built as proposed in Prop. 109 S, while the Progress Party «recommends not to rv. [[Ryfast]] [[2011-2012]] 13 Typhoid compound is built as proposed in Prop. 109 S The great majority mentioned above also agree on most of the committee's comments, but the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have some additional comments, which I also expect them to do more for themselves. The external quality assurance, KS2, has presented its own traffic analysis which provides significantly lower toll revenue than that obtained in the State Road Service's analysis, which has emerged after the last few years of totaling 12 traffic base and toll potential distributions. The majority believe that this is based on a slightly different assumption, and that the result is not directly comparable. The majority also believe that the project has sufficient local political outreach. Rogaland County and all the municipalities involved, except for Forsand, have joined the Ryfast and the financing facility. The majority point out in their comments that the closed ferry services must be replaced by a good bus service and that Stavanger City is reserved for public transport if it appears that the traffic leakage from the Hundwag Tunnel to the Bybrua is too high. Furthermore, the majority believe that the tariffs in the Solbakk tunnel have to be reduced if the economy of the project is better than planned. Ryfast has been an exciting thing to be a case spokesman for. It has hails with emails and views also through all kinds of other channels. I've been looking at the project itself and I've met engaged people both in Stavanger and in Ryfylke. As far as I know, there is a more than 30-year debate on holiday-free solutions between the North and the Ryflies that will have their final decision here today. Ryfast is a solid double-tracked road and tunnel project. But Ryfast is, however, as I see it, primarily a solid regional development project for Ryfylke and Jären and a long-term urban development project for Stavanger. Ryfylke and Nord-Jären are located in the heart of one of our strongest appreciation regions. Here we have oil and gas clusters in the tip of the world, a strong maritime environment and a growing marine industry. This region has the strongest population growth in the country. It must then be a task for us, for the Storting, to do what we can to facilitate that Stavanger and the region can have a positive growth for years to come, without being strangled. Our contribution today must therefore be that Stortinget's voice for Prop. 109 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5445	Norway needs modernisation of the road network; we need a more efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network. Good projects are in line all over the country. After all, the national transport plan is nothing more than a waiting list for a good transport project, especially a road project. Public regional impact is often also a good national impact. A continental connection between the Stavanger/Sandnes area and the Ryfylke region is clearly a project with good regional impact. Many regional projects come from regional initiatives. That is what the Progress Party believes is important, but we note that although Ryfast has clear regional support, there is also considerable opposition to the solution adopted. The party notes that in the case of this project, there is also a referendum related to the financing itself. The Progress Party is for all good road projects – funded by state resources. The progress party is also for external quality assurance. It is a system that according to guidelines from the Ministry of Finance is – and I quote what they say about it: «O quality assurance management basis and estimate of the cost of the selected project option before submitting the project to the investment decision in Stortinget. On the one hand, there shall be a check as to whether the project is well defined with realistic frames.» This project is also controlled. The consultants say, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘We find it unlikely that the traffic base of the proposed tariffs will be sufficient to finance the project. It is therefore doubtful whether the financing plan requires 92 pst. Toll financing is ongoing. Ryfast has been approved with several significant deviations from road normal, leading to a less optimal solution.’ And then it argues for this. Let me mention that among these deviations there are 8 pst. increase. The oslofd tunnel has 7 pst., is probably 7 km long and goes 134 m deep. The main tunnel of this project, the Solbakk tunnel, will reach a total of 14 km and go 290 m deep. The consultants further say: ‘The solution chosen produces significant geographical distribution effects compared to today’s solution and a very high cost burden for commuters with daily journeys on the route.’ They also talk about «cross-subsidy from the Solbakk tunnel to the Hundwag tunnel». The conclusion of the quality assurance report KS2 is clear. I quote: «EX» – external quality assurance body – «recommends, on this basis, the development of a new KVU, with alternative transport solutions between the State of the Rhine and the mainland». The Progress Party supports that conclusion. I have been a member of the Transport Committee for nearly seven years now, and we are about to deal with 60 toll-funded projects – individually. I do not remember that external quality assurance has so clearly recommended that the project is not implemented, I repeat: not implemented! The Progress Party believes that a continental link is important, but that the proposed solution is a poor solution. As proposed in the Quality Assurance Report, the Progress Party believes that a new solution needs to be developed. Conditions related to transport and traffic solutions in Stavanger must be resolved separately from Ryfast – The Ryfylke connection. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. As far as the rest of the time goes, I have some challenges to the Council of State. One goes on the maintenance costs, which from the State Road Service has been suggested to be at least 130 million. kr per year. So in the 20-year toll period that we're talking about, it's going to be $2.6 billion. kr in maintenance. It is not even mentioned in the proposition. Maybe it should have been. I remind you that the financial envelope for the project is 5.2 billion. kr. The clock of building expensive, with expensive maintenance, is reason to question. I remember the aftermath on both the national road network and the county road network. I also challenge the Council of State on economic intrusion. It is such that commuters and fixed travelers with the two ferries will experience Ryfast as a form of economic containment. Removals will be removed and all forces will be forced to use the connection. Many get longer transport routes, and many get more expensive transportation. Is this a district friendly, economical and environmentally friendly solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5501	It's actually the first time I remember that the Progress Party is going against building roads in this country. I think that's actually worth noting. So the rationale is a KS2 report. Now we have KS1 and KS2 reports on a lot of projects that pass through this hall. Among other things, we have it on a submarine that many of us will remove because of the pollution risk. There's the party's view the exact opposite. So I don't quite understand this, but we might get it settled in the course of the debate. I would like to say that in this matter, the Council of State has impressed me a little – I hung on to ‘a little’. She has been in a storm that has been quite formidable. I also think the case rapporteur has done an excellent job in this matter and tried to bind the committee on this project. We're talking about one of Norway's largest road projects. It's actually a project that you want locally to finance it 100 pst, both with user payments and with subsidies. It's nothing less than impressive. Then it was just a lot of people that we weren't here to say yes to the project. The prerequisites for the project and what it contained were excellent, but it is clear that the Eiganes tunnel and the Solbakk tunnel, as it is called in our documents – I think it would have been more beautiful if it had been called the Ryfylke tunnel – belong together in many ways. One depends on the other. It is also the case that we dealt with the improvement in the Nord-Jären package not long ago. This was also part of the assumptions. All major projects have their opponents and are characterized by the expression of different geographical interests. That's the same thing here. On the right hand side, I have to say that in matters like this, in principle, we follow the decisions taken as majority decisions in the county council, even in the case of the desired toll solution. So it's been said that there's going to be huge funding costs here. Yes, with the pessimistic assumptions you try to take into account in the case, it does. That's almost half of the cost. But I actually think that in the market we see today, it is possible to solve this more favourably. I want to say that there's something about the way we're financing tolls in this country, which we might want to look at with a little bit of new eyes. It is true that the county councils guarantee for the national road project and place their entire risk will at their disposal. There's also the municipality of Stavanger in here. Perhaps we should see more in the direction – as many other countries do – of having a State guarantee institution for such things. We have it for a number of other things in our society. We even have an interest compensation scheme on county roads, we have interest-free loans on school buildings, etc. So there's a lot of solutions that we could look at, but maybe we'll get closer to NTP. But I think we have a great potential to improve in doing exactly that bit of the criticism of the Progress Party against toll projects, because in many ways they are right in: it should be lower interest costs. So the Christian People's Party and the Right have pointed out that this matter would be perfectly suited as an OPS project. The maintenance costs would also be collected from a 25-year perspective, with reference to what has been recorded in the last days of the media. Finally, we are concerned – as the majority of the Committee – that the disadvantage of the laying down of Lauvik-Oanes, together with the county council, should be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5518	Let me start by thanking the case manager for a good and nuanced job. He also took time for an inspection in the area and got to talk to different parties with different views on this matter. So that was very good. Then, of course, I would like to congratulate those who are in favour of Ryfast and now I would like to say. It also applies to the Council of State, which now has a good day. Congratulations to you. I was 17 May speakers at the Forsand. The flag may not be as high as the one on Hjelmeland and parts on Strand, or on Jørpeland. There is now a solution that was actually ordered by the business community in Stavanger, which wanted car traffic to the city 20 years ago. One managed to gather a lot of parties behind it, and then it became that solution. I think that's very correct, what you've done: one has found a solution, and then one has a clear hold on the troops behind this solution. Then one more. It's an experience. It's an experience that I also hope North-Jear learns from when it's about how to get to a city track on the North-Jear. There is the fact that the nutrition unit and other powerful forces, including the Workers' Party, have gone away from that idea and are trying to get something smaller, modern solutions. This way, you don't get any solution that's very good, because you're split. It should not be. That should have shown Ryfast-saka: that's the way you have to work, if you're going to do it. SV is the only party that has consistently opposed this in the municipality of Strand and in other municipalities in Ryfylke, also in Stavanger and on the county side. I'm here, centrally, against us. We tried for a while to get movement in Rogaland county, in December last year. It was not possible. The cohesion was strongly behind this project. This meant that I realized for my part that the battle for Ryfast had already been lost by then, in January/February this year. Now I have asked a lot of difficult questions to the Council of State about this project, so I tip her off to answer absolutely all the questions she can now risk getting, because at least she's done to me. SV's solution was actually a ferry–bru constellation – i.e. new ferries on the Tau connection. What's happened on the Tau connection for a long time is that it has our old ferries that sometimes go, and that sometimes don't go. Of course, the many commuters – over a thousand – raise themselves above this every time, and then one can, of course, mobilize when one needs an option that is not a ferry. If one had done what is now happening, that there were some new ferries, but that they had come before, and would have liked to have also gone from Siriskjær to Solbakk, where the tunnel comes up, I believe the resistance to Ryfast would be greater. He's not right now, even though there have been some polls that have shown something else. For Högsfjord's part, something of the ferry connection must be removed, for those who live on Forsand will have to run a few miles to get to work on the other side of Högsfjord. It's the ones I've been most hurt by – not because SV loses a case in the government after one has had negotiations, and after several locals are as it is, but because one is kind of late in the game because they had a tunnel, Espedal-Frfjord, which was inside the pack for Ryfylke for a while, but then he was drawn out, because it would reduce the income of Ryfast. I think that one at some point in time has to fix, and then one has to look at possible solutions, so that one escapes to get some kind of molbo traffic, where one has to run hard turns to get to Sandnes. It had a slop if one had a Højsfjord connection or a Højsfjord bridge. But it's not going to be like that right now. I'm very pleased with the signals that a multiple comes with connecting to City Brua. If there is too much leak to Bybrua, the case-speaker and the plural – including SV – state quite clearly that then there will have to be solutions where public transport is given priority. Then I think that a good solution for Hundvåg will be that we put out a urban runway to Hundvåg. Then we'll have a right to the future, a good collective offer. Otherwise, I would like once again to congratulate myself on the construction of Ryfast. It's exciting to see how things are going. I think they'd like to slow down that they don't support me today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5541	According to Storting's Rules of Procedure, all speeches should be addressed to the President, but that of course does not mean that a person cannot speak for the gallery. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5544	Then I also want to talk to the gallery – but via the president. Transport is one of Norway’s most important means of using it, including this. It has been a very active business that has stood behind and worked to get to the project that we are going to adopt today. So it's a historic day. It has been said in the past that the process has taken over 30 years. Meg is told that there is a 40-year process that is now sailing in port – where very many projects have been evaluated, where the so-called Haugsfjord tube was closed at the end of the 1990s, and when the Ryfast project in its current phase saw the light of day. It is, as has been said by the representative of Langeland, cross-political unity in Rogaland. There has been a long process in the county, in the county and in the municipalities around. It is therefore a little strange today to see that there is SV who are voting for in Stortinget, but the Progress Party is going against it. Local representatives of the Progress Party have, in this context, our warm advocates for the project. Even if it is toll-financed, they have argued that as it is a ferry settlement project, it has a price for it. There's a project that connects the whole North-Jear. Nord Jären is a growing area where soil protection is under a strong pressure. This transport project will help to conserve food soil in Norway. It's also an important moment to take with you. The region has given priority to this. There's been a whole process in the county, and the municipalities have supported it. Then it's a little surprising to read in the papers that the project has been snuffing in the queue – a project that one has been working for for nearly 40 years, where 92 pst. is toll financing and the rest is regional funds. And if there was a snitch in the queue in this part of the country, the ferry equipment and rv should be. 13 would be of a better quality. Ryfast is a project that requires politicians with the courage and will to fight this type of transport project. Fortunately, we have such a Minister of Transport. The progress party has said something in its comments that they want to prioritize Rogfast in front of Ryfast. In this context, it is not about either – or, but it will be about both – and. Further reference is made to the number of inhabitants and the distribution of costs among the inhabitants, a population figure that was also misjudged. But anyway, there's a project for the whole of Rogaland, and it's possible to run both ways in these tunnels. There are even two tunnels, one to run, and one to run from. Furthermore, one of us has skeptical about traffic. If we look at Finnfast, another toll project in Rogaland, it has 75 pst. more traffic than expected in advance. It has also been said earlier in the debate that it is a minus for forward. Yeah, that's a minus. It will always be so that some get longer when others get better. Therefore, we are very pleased with what the Committee has drawn up, both in relation to the possible adjustment of tolls at the Solbakk tunnel and in relation to restrictions on the City of Bruges and the provision of bus services to Forsand. It's all important things that have been taken with it. As I said, the Progress Party has supported this locally. I can't understand it other than that they locally have been daggerd in the back of their people centrally. We also still believe that it should be a new government. I often hear that in this hall. A new government will depend on a multiple of the Progress Party. It means that such a government would not have brought this up. It wouldn't have been a plural. The parallel to this can be seen in Rogaland, where the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are in charge, and there will not be a major transport project – now at last in Transportplan Nord-Jären. What we're doing today is taking a new step forward to build the country, to make use of Norway as a whole. The centre party fully supports the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5576	I would like to thank Mr Rommetveit, who has done a good job in the Committee. I also want to point out the meetings he has had locally and regionally, which it has been very positive to experience in Rogaland as well. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa is known to be a state councillor with a good mood and a smile. However, I feel that there is an extra pleasure around the Council of State today. It is such that this region – Rogaland – is actually the region that is relatively growing most in Norway. That is why there is a need for efficient transport solutions and that will increase the need. The Ryfast project will have great significance for Rogaland as a whole. There will be closer linkage of the region, and there is a commitment for the project that the E39 Owner Tunnel will be realised. This tunnel will be good for urban development in Stavanger and also for the surrounding areas. Tunnel construction is unique in the world. For this reason, we note that the State Road Service must have a special watchful eye on the technical aspects and that the tunnel construction imposes high standards of competence. The local political unity, even the inter-political unity that we have seen regionally, has been decisive for the Christian People's Party to support the project. At the same time, it is important to note the fact that the municipality has its objections. The municipality of Forsand still wants ferry operations over Høgsfjorden, and I'll ask the department to take a special look at this and see if there are any solutions here. It is due as Lauvvik-Oanes, who was also involved in the representation of Halleraker. We also know that the Espedal-Frafjord tunnel was inside the project thinking from the start. He's not in what we're going to adopt today. But it has something to do with the whole thing. Then it is regrettable that the department has been suspected of secrecy in this matter. There should not be an impression that the department has anything to hide. It took a long time for the KS2 report to be published. Today, we can also read in the VG that according to the State Road Service, it will cost 130 million. kr per year to maintain the two underwater tunnels included in Ryfast. Although the proposition only applies to development and funding, it is always wise to put all the relevant information on the table, and I expect the Council of State to comment on this in its intervention. Today, the Progress Party is voting against a project supported by the Progress Party in Rogaland, which they have also helped to adopt, to be financed by tolls. When the representative of Sortevik says this was a re-disputed project, that's right. But it is not the funding itself that has been discussed in the region – no, it has been the different solutions. The willingness of the rogalends to take the entire calculation itself shows the strength of the project. It is not the funding that has been discussed. I would also like to make a comment to the representative of Bergsvåg, who is discussing what a new non-socialist government would do in this matter. Then I'll show you what's happened in Rogaland, where the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are working together. There is a broad political consensus on this matter! It just shows that this is a good thing, and it is an important matter for the region. What the Christian People's Party and the Right have pointed to is that this project could have been an excellent OPS project. We would also have more prudent future costs and a better guarantee when it comes to maintenance in the years to come. So the Christian People's Party joins the project, but we're concerned about the situation of Consign and challenge the ministry to look at it in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5597	Yes, it is great to be Minister of Transport from the Central Party in a government that is investing in transportation, and that invites the Stortinget to make decisions in several important projects within one day. Yesterday it was Fønhus-Bagn on E16. Later today it applies to the Hålogalandsbrua, and now it applies to the Ryfast. Ryfast is a project that is greatly appreciated by both the people and business community in Northern Ireland and in Ryfylke, a project that will relieve the pressure on Northern Ireland and give new opportunities for development in Ryfylke. The connection will cut down the journey time over Hidlefjord to just a few minutes. At the same time, it will now be up to the road users themselves when they actually want to travel. Anyone who has lived with the coercion it is always to have to stick to the ferry door, will understand for an easy this will be. Ryfast is claimed to be a spectacular project. I agree, if we mean something positive by'spectacularly'. Ryfast, as it is now, has been the preferred option for crossing fjords since the district sub-plan for land and transport in Ryfylke was approved by the Ministry of Environment in 2002. Six different proposals were considered in the work on this sub-plan. Of all these suggestions and different variants, Clear was selected as the best option, based on an overall assessment. As far as I can see, the majority of the Committee – everyone outside the Progress Party’s representatives – does not have critical comments on the proposal put forward by the government. I have noticed, however, that they are concerned about the traffic situation between Hundvåg and Stavanger Centre. They argued that Bybrua would be reserved for public transport if the traffic leak from Hundwag Tunnel to Bybrua became too great. On the other hand, the party of progress does not want us to start the work of tying up the Ryfylke and the North Jären closer together. They're going to re-fight decisions that were taken ten years ago. The external quality assurance made by Ryfast includes, in addition to an ordinary KS2, traffic base, toll revenue and elements from KS1, a socio-economic assessment. The Ministry of Transport has regularly assessed the recommendations presented by the external quality insurer. Some have been judged to be sensible to consider; others have not followed up as much. This, in my opinion, is also the way in which such external quality assurance must function. In this case, there have been many good discussions, which have meant that both vegetarians and external consultants have been forced to go through their speech and their methods several times. It's not – and it can't be – so that one professional environment sits with the fasitite alone. On the contrary, there is a gap between different points of view and assessments – when everyone has to tighten up because they meet professional counter-arguments – that the good and informed decisions can be taken. In the light of the thorough assessments we had carried out, we concluded that we were following the advice of the State Road Administration on traffic figures and toll revenue. At the same time, the consultant's management framework is laid down. She's a little lower than the estimate from the State Road Administration. The step forward part makes a number of requests for deviations from the maximum pitch of the Solbow tunnel, up to 8 pst. increase. Let me plot what the external quality indicator itself writes: ‘External Quality Assurance Officer considers that the Road Directorate’s grounds for granting a derogation seem well-founded.’ ‘External quality assurance is of the opinion that the project and the Road Directorate are likely to be the most optimal solution for the project through alternative analyses.’ So as the planes now lie, the Solbak tunnel at the steepest point will have a slope of 7.17 pst. So suggests the Right and Christian People's Party that Ryfast will own itself as a OPS project. Let me just say to it: in Ryfast, the construction time is largely determined by the time it takes to blow up the holes in question during the spring. It is difficult to see that an OPS carrier will be able to map down on this. Finally, it is with great joy that I record the broad plurality that now says yes to a new era for both Ryfylke and Nord-Jären – and Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5631	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5635	When a project like this comes to Stortinget, it has a long planning process – several have been involved. A number of investigations are available. The latest investigation available before the Stortinget takes a decision is external quality assurance 2. That report has a clear conclusion, it does not recommend that the project be implemented. I would like to be made clear by the Council of State why the unusually clear rejection, the unusually clear conclusion, is clearly disregarded in the quality assurance report relating to this project. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer how many of the other toll projects have been promoted during this period. We're three years into this period, it's been up to 20 projects, we're also going to have one later today. How many have a KS2 report that clearly advises against implementing the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5642	Then I would like to start by stressing that it is very rare that the traffic figures have been so thoroughly analysed over as many years as in this case. So here it's traffic and toll revenue that's the main objection from the quality insurer. Over several years, the state road service has conducted 12 analyses to make this as thorough as possible in terms of traffic figures. Then external quality insurers come with the thirteenth – an external quality insurer that does not care that there will be toll revenue from Hundvåg and down the Hundvåg tunnel. It is on that basis that we base our analysis on the state road system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5647	First, a little comment to the Council of State: well, it's enough that in a project like this, OPS could have had a very positive effect. It is not just explosive work – although of course it is important – it must be carried out in large quantities, it must be equipped, it must be completed and it must be maintained. Personally, I actually have good experience in stimulating competition in that particular work, which resulted in eight months of shorter construction time. It was funding I wanted to ask, I mentioned it in my post. Can the Council of State agree to look at possible interest-rate compensation schemes or guarantee schemes for national road projects, too, so that we can reduce the huge interest-rate costs for which individual projects — and then county municipalities — must guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5654	Let me first say that it is nice now to register that there are several projects that have recently been built as quickly, and that have remained within the cost range. The main point is that the project is paid, and that the government has contributed money. We saw it no with Sky-Langangangen, and we saw it recently with Dal-Minnesund on E6. So to the question. What I'm going to promise the representative Øyvind Halleraker is that we should conduct a broad assessment of different ways of organising and financing infrastructure. This will be done in conjunction with the next national transport plan, so that it can look forward to a good discussion of different aspects of the themes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5661	So, as I said in my post, there's information that it's going to cost up to 130 million. kr per year to maintain the two underwater tunnels included in Ryfast. So over the tolling period of 20 years, this is going to be $2.6 billion. kr. My question to the Council of State is, why has this information not come out? We know that in the proposition it's the decision to expand and finance that is the basis of the proposition. But isn't there also relevant information for Stortingen to find out what it will cost to keep up with this work? When we know that this has been a theme around an OPS project, we know that the maintenance cost is something we discuss when we also discuss the OPS project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5668	We have followed common practice when it relates to what is mentioned in the proposition. We have also followed common practice when it comes to the KS2 report. That's what they say. The KS2 reports are internal documents for the government until the proposition is made. Back to maintenance. It is well known that underwater tunnels are more expensive to keep by than one road and a bridge. There's a row that's going to be many more built. Rogfast may be one of the next big projects. It's both bigger and more expensive than Ryfast. I've got numbers today that are slightly lower than the numbers that VG operated on, but let me say I have registered that question, and we're going to evaluate it in the propositions that we're going to put forward later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5675	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5678	First, I just want to say that the Progress Party is not against building roads. But the Progress Group strongly disagrees with building crazy expensive tunnels where there are better alternatives. It's very brave of the government to go in to build the world's deepest and world's longest underwater tunnel, especially considering the challenges you have with the Oslo Earth Tunnel. The Ryfast project is based on building a tunnel that is twice as long, that goes twice as deep, and that is steeper than the Oslofjord tunnel. It's not that underwater tunnels are completely trouble-free. Subsea tunnels have a short service life. In recent years, it has been seen that they mainly last around 15 years. Climb ratio of 8 pst. leads to problems for heavy traffic and increases environmental emissions. Traffic safety will be worse than today. Unfortunately, tunnels are being closed more often than bridges and roads. It was mentioned by the representative from SV here earlier today that people are standing up when the ferry does not go. Then I just have to disappoint them by saying that tunnels will also be closed at regular intervals. There's going to be accidents. Trucks will have problems with their brakes, and there is a greater need to carry out tunnel inspections and maintenance than, for example, in the case of tunnels. brother. I find it a pity that I have to read the VG to learn that the operating and maintenance costs of this project are estimated at 130 million. kr. It would have been nice if the government could confirm that all the uncertainties have been included in this calculation, and that the amount here has not been given as a lower framework. Given all the unforeseen events that happen in tunnels, I'm going to claim that this amount can be much higher. At least 130 million. kr annually could thus have been used more rationally if you had entered a bridge solution in front of the tunnel. Tunnels are expensive. There are many challenges with tunnels. Therefore, the government should be skeptical about building tunnels where there are other alternatives, and there are other alternatives. I have hurt to understand the priority of the Minister of Transport. Why is it so important to build this tunnel at any cost? I will not accuse the Council of State of building up shorter travel time home, for it must be allowed for a Minister of Transport to build a road in his own country. But I am surprised that the Council of State here wants to give a political signal that external quality assurance is not taken into account, that urban prosperity is more important than the safety of those who run between the big cities today, and that the longest, deepest and safest, most dangerous tunnel in the world is to be built even if there are better and cheaper solutions. The Progress Party simply does not see any good reason for us to be in favour of the Ryfast project, as it is now. I find it regrettable that the Minister for Transport should have such an expensive monument over himself in the home state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5693	This is a day of joy. I would like to congratulate both Mr Ryfylke and Mr Jären and the Minister for Transport on the matter that has been put forward. The debate on it shows that very many people do not understand and know about the long process that has led to today's decision. Many talk about alternative fjord crossings. Many of us who followed the discussion about the possibility of realizing the option Högsfjord tube, know that it got 19 years to realize. State, state, municipality and private spent a total of 60 million. kr to try to realize the project. It had a state guarantee, but it went 19 years without anyone seeing anything about that option. Now 13 years have passed since the majority in Rogaland County turned around and walked away from the Højsfjord tube and started working to realize Ryfast. After 13 years, Stortinget makes a decision. I don't think anyone can blame the Ryfast project for sneaking into the queue or the current Minister of Transport for taking some quick turns in this project. It has taken a long time, but today we shall rejoice that it will be adopted. It has a major impact on the development of Ryfylke. I want to take one concrete example: the municipality of Helmeland has had a population since 1965 and until today between 2 500 and 3 000 inhabitants – completely stable. It is a municipality just a few miles from the area of Norway that grows most outside the Oslo area. The municipality has not had the same opportunity to enjoy the development, precisely in the light of the transport challenges of that municipality. This will be partially solved through the Ryfast project. The municipality has an important production of farmed salmon and halibut, which will thus have a shorter path to the markets in Europe. But the project is also important for the whole North-Jear, which is a strong growth area, because it opens up the possibility of expanding where the country's most productive food soil is not used, that is, the one that's on the Jären, but that you can build on areas with stone and thus create fantastic living environments for this growing area. By thus solving some of the growth challenges in the north of Europe, this project is not just important for the Ryflies, not just for the North of Europe, but a project that is important for the whole of Norway. Ryfast is now being adopted today. Next step is to build Rogfast. It's important to have solved this with Ryfast first before starting with Rogfast. With the last post from the Progress Party on Tunnels, I'm beginning to wonder what the party is going to mean about Rogfast.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5706	Ryfast is an important project, and it is an important road link. It is important to solve traffic challenges in Stavanger, and it is important to get a roadway solution for the Ruflanders. It is important for the business community in Ryfylke, and it is important for the business community in Stavanger. It is important to link regions. This is why it has been an important regional policy project. Several regions have been united for a long time to realize this road project, and the county council has given the project a bottom-solid anchor. For the Ryfast, the Ryfast is the gateway to the North Jären, and for the Stavanger region, the Ryfast is the gateway to the Ryfylke, but also to something far more. In its time, a large Ryfylke package was developed. It consisted of several building blocks, where Ryfast is one of these building blocks. In addition, Finnfast, which binds the island of Finnøy together with mainland and Rennfast, is one building block. The T-connection at Karmøy was also part of this package, a connection that was soon completed. Another building block in the package is that large and important distance measures have been taken on Rv. 13, which must also be seen in the context of racial protection and tunnel, not least along the Tysdal River – an important building block. The construction of Sandsfjord Bridge is about to begin, which means that another ferry connection can be phased out. It has already started on the way to this bridge – another important building block. One last building block that is ready for realization is the tunnel between Etne and Sauda. This will complete the Ryfylke package. These together form a road network that connects larger regions: Ryfylke, Haugalandet and Hardanger. This makes it an internal option, which means that the distances from the Ryphoge and Stavanger regions to E134 are shorter than today's options. This will open up a completely different traffic pattern than what we see today. In addition, we need to look at what's going on in Hordaland and Hardanger. This is where major and important road projects are realized, namely the Jondal tunnel and the Hardangerfjord bridge. We see that large clusters of nutrients in the so - called inner stripe are becoming increasingly important urban regions such as Bergen and Stavanger. It is quite clear that the outer edge of a common housing and labour market is being moved considerably further into the country, with all the positive effects of this on business and housing. Important industries such as farming and fish production will significantly improve transport conditions, to give an example, and the commuter distance will be reduced. We cannot or should not see the individual project in isolation or on our own, even if we are dealing with this one project today. The sum is important for central cities, but it is also important for the district. I think it's important that we remind each other that the prerequisite for the realization of a single project is that we see the whole package.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5721	For those who listen to NRK Rogaland: Today one could wake up to Tau-ferje, no. 3, stood – and it is a very common message to get for those who depend on ferry traffic in Norway. It shows the revolution that Ryfast will become for an entire Ryfylke, where one will now land on the Stavanger region. I was in the Rogaland county 13 years ago, when you walked away from the alternative Högsfjord to the Ryfast model. It's certainly taken a long time. It should have been done a long time ago. This is what Rogaland wants. That is why it is surprising – Rogaland is partly run by the Progress Party, with the county product rapporteur – that we are now voting against perhaps the most important transport project in Rogaland before the next NTP, as we are also going to have Rogfast in place. This is not the case – if one reads the financing plan – that we are asking the state for money when we are going to have major road projects in Rogaland. The municipalities, the county council, the business community and the drivers of tolls pay the whole package themselves. Stavanger Municipality and Rogaland County have guarantee liability for billing. So it's not like operating costs on tunnels are new after they're built – whether they're over water or under water. On 12 June 2012 stands out as a day with a major policy on transport to Norwegian engineers – with the world's longest underwater tunnel. A great thank you to Minister of Transport Meltveit Kleppa, whom I will obviously praise today – congratulations on her day. Congratulations on the day of those who live in Ryfylke – maybe June 12th will be Ryfylke's new official flag day. This is an important matter. The Stavanger region is perhaps the region of Norway today with the greatest pressure on land in terms of housing and industry. Ryfast means that – I’m not going to get into a municipal merger in this discussion – you get close to the North Jären, to Forus, to Stavanger and to Sandnes. You can drive there whenever you want, not when the ferries go – and don't be unsure about it. It's local consensus, and it's a great opportunity for the whole of the Ryflies – for travel, for business and for those who live there. I think the price would be even higher with ferries than what it's now going to be with tolls. The properties are also increasing in value. Now Ryfylke can also take part in the growth that Rogaland has.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5739	It is a great commitment of the rogaland representatives in this matter. It's not that special – it's a matter that's been going on for a long time. It's a very big thing. In my contribution, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Transport for finally getting the case before Stortinget – she has worked hard and well on it – and also the Committee and the case rapporteur for a thorough and good work. It has laid the foundations for a solid majority – which will stand by it. It should just be missing that you don't get involved in the matter here, when you see the local involvement across the region, especially in the Ryfylke region. There has been a solid majority, apart from one local government that has gone against it, over many years for this project, which is so important for the Nord-Jären region, in order to better link this entire important growth centre with a solid housing market and labour market that can be seen in a context. I think we're making a tense and forward-looking decision today, if we see it in this perspective. The formulas in the setting are very good. The formulas in the adjustment also show the significance of this in a region. This shows that a city region and a rural region can be built together in a better co-operation, which is forward-looking – also environmentally, even if there is doubt about it, I have seen from a few teams. This will be built together in a whole new way. We're talking about an area that has had a growth over a long time, and that has good institutions and good industry, but that longs to get a better connection and a better investment on the infrastructure. I must say, as a resident of Stavanger, that it is a joyous day when we see this development. The property tunnel, the release of large residential areas in Hundvåg, etc., connects these things. If it is seen in a Western context, the large counties are much better linked in the future – Rogaland with its 450 000 inhabitants and Hordaland with almost 500,000 inhabitants. This is going to be a great great and big Western region that you have to see in a whole. Finally, I would like to say that I am somewhat surprised that the Progress Party is now moving towards the project. They said repeatedly that this was a good project. Allow me to quote Ketil Solvik-Olsen in the Evening Magazine, where he says: "When the world looks like it does, I'd rather have Ryfast than nothing." Better could not have been said, but today he goes against. The third spring must now end with a solid decision on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5759	This is a big day. It's a brand day for Ryfylke, and not just for Ryfylke, but for North Jären and Rogaland. As has been stressed, there has been a large local consensus on the project. There has been a top priority project in Rogaland over many years. Some people have thought that there are people who get further away, and that's the way it is. For Rogaland, this has been such an important project that they actually say they take it themselves, and that's not the first time. For us in the Christian People's Party and for others, it has been not only a road project, but a regional development project, where we really get the opportunity to use new areas. We are getting an extension of the housing and labour market, and – as was also said – the pressure on cultivated land can be reduced on the North-Jear. As far as road projects have been concerned, some of us in Rogaland have been working on a transport package for the county since the 1980s, where there were very many joints, and where there were several building blocks, as was said. The connection to Ryfylke was one of them. The first project was launched 20 years ago. It was Rennfast. And you the world, when I heard the Progress Party today, it was almost like hearing the same concerns about how dangerous it was, and how we were going to run down these tunnels. It was the kill, and it was all the world's stuff. It was used very harshly by those who opposed it. It has gone incredibly well, and the project was paid down in a shorter time. Another project in this is Finnfast, which was put into service three years ago. The traffic there is twice the forecast, and the toll package has already gone down by 50 kroner. So thinking new, thinking big thoughts, I think I'm okay. It has to be great that one actually does. In Rogaland you do it yourself, and they take the cost. Then it would almost only be lacking if one did not let them have the opportunity. The representative Hallgeir Langeland has not guaranteed, but he has said that Rennfast, no, Finnfast – no, now it goes around with all these fasts – Ryfast did not come, but he has realized that he is on a team. And while there are actually party representatives locally who say that if the people and the business community want it, you can go in for it locally, one goes against it here. It's disappointing. When the inhabitants themselves, the municipalities and the business community want it and want to take the bill, they won't get it. I am pleased that this project has a large majority in this Chamber and is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5770	After listening to the previous speaker, I start to wonder what all those who fill up my mailbox mean, because they obviously don't think the same thing as the previous speaker. I find it interesting when the case rapporteur says that this is a partial layer of splinter. 8 pst. is the counties and two municipalities to pay, 92 pst. It is the drivers who have to pay. So the drivers are going to have to pay 4.8 billion. NOK to build a road that costs 5.2 billion. NOK to build, and then we're going to pay 4.7 billion. NOK only in interest expenses and SEK 400 million. kr at the top of it. So everyone is standing here and saying that this is really great -- it's almost hallelujah. When instead the Council of State would not answer Arne Sortevik's questions, I would like to ask it one more time. Arne Sortevik asked the following questions: ‘I would ask the Council of State to reply to how many of the other toll projects that have been promoted during this period have a KS2 report that clearly advises against the implementation of the project?’ I hope that the Council of State can answer that question. I think it's important to have it, because the Progress Party has been positive, but we also said that we want to see the consequences of the KS2 report when it comes. Among other things, in the setting of the National Transport Plan, we were very clear that we wanted to see it. That's what we've got now, with a conclusion that we don't have to figure this out. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid in a few years I can say, what did I say? I hope that won't be the case. I want to say what the representative Knut Arild Hareide said to the VG yesterday. It ended up like a little pipe from the pulpit today, but yesterday he said that it is very critical that the information about the 130 billion. kr in maintenance costs had not been submitted to Stortinget. The representative Øyvind Halleraker from the Right was also very clear in the VG yesterday that Meltveit Kleppa does what Kjell Opseth did in earlier times, but I have not heard it in the debate today. I realize that maybe it's because you're going to try to just make this a hallelujah project. I don't think it is. I think you'll come back in a few years and say that unfortunately, this was a bad alternative. The progress party, as we say in the setting, and as we have said all along, is not against establishing a continental connection, but we think we need to find a better alternative. With a KS2 that looked to the degrees saying that this should not be the case, we believe that as a responsible road party that is engaged in building more roads, we have to listen to it. So it is the last report that clearly recommends no.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5784	Getting the ferry free way between Ryfylke and Nord-Jären has been a wet dream for a lot of us. Yes, I would say that for the Progress Party it has helped confirm that it is the road party, which wants good solutions. In the debate today, several have tried to doubt this, as if the Progress Party is now suddenly opposed to getting free connection to the Ryfylke. It's turning the debate completely upside down, and I'll take a great distance from it. Getting posts from Nordtun in this case becomes a little pointless. Some people here want to get a shorter way to the cabin, I understand very well, but that someone is derailing the debate in this way, is meaningless. We want free connection. It will increase the housing market, and it will increase the job market. It's positive for the North Year for so many different reasons. It's this concrete solution here that we're skeptical about, simply because the Storting has seen over many decades that many road projects have become significantly more expensive or more unsafe than any other reason. Therefore, a project quality assurance system was in place. When this quality assurance rarely shows that there's a lot of red light here, here's something that you should do before you move on, the Storting chooses to ignore it. It is this that becomes completely incomprehensible to me: One sees that this is a road project where one comes with many warnings, and then one should still not care! So what's the point of the KS2 round? And then you could just as easily remove it. If the government had gone a round and answered the objections of the professionals in a proper way, the Progress Party would have said okay, we're doing it, because we want this. But when the warnings were not properly answered, we will not take the risk by launching a project that will cost the drivers 10 billion. kr in tolls, for so suddenly to say, "Oh, it wasn't close anyway." Haven't we learned anything from the Gardemobane expansion? There are such things that we want to avoid. We also know that the fear is that if you meet the demand for increased collective participation, it can reduce the toll revenue from the drivers so much that the economy here won't be connected as intended. What excuse do the other parties have for not listening to the warnings, but just pointing at them? This costs a lot of money. It is also an example that it makes no sense for us to finance road projects in oil-rich Norway. This project costs the drivers initially 4.8 billion. SEK to build, their share costs 4.8 billion. kr. So a loan fund is going to finance this – probably through the Municipal Bank, and then the money from abroad – at an interest rate of 6.5 p.m., while we borrow money to Germany at 1.8 p.m. Show me the manager who thinks it's smart to save the bank's profits and finance its investments!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5797	I want to start by congratulating Ryfylke and Rogaland on the day. It's a good day! We are going to make a decision in a matter later in this room, which I am also very pleased about, the case of Hålogalandsbrua, which comes to the north end of my county. Yesterday, we made decisions on a road map in Valdres, where they also need it. There have been many good projects. The week before, there was Tresfjord in More and Romesdal. On a continuous basis, there have been projects to build the country more closely and to enable the population to live and work — and to commute along different routes. It's good to belong to a government fraction that will do it. Ryfast will provide a ferry-free road link between the Ryfylke and the North-Jear. It will be a completely different time for the population and the business that belongs to this region. It's just going to build the country closer together and make it possible for the heavy business you've got there to take advantage of your careers in a much better way. And that will mean a whole new time for the commuters, who spend a lot of time commuting. When it's such a big project and such a huge upturn in toll financing and local contributions, it says that here you want something, here you want locally. Like many others, I have received e-mails from different teams, which have been skeptical. At the same time, there is a large proportion of people who want this and who think it is good. I think it's especially that the Progress Party goes against this project, when they've been locally in front of it. I also think it is a bit special that you want to send this out on a new desert hike, with new concept selection investigations and KS2 that take time. At least we haven't seen in a lot of other things that it was the moment – you wanted to go fast on the activity. Finally, I am pleased that there is a large and solid majority in this Chamber who are in favour of the Ryfast project. Now it's going to be construction – it's just to enjoy it!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5812	From the speakers of the Progress Party – especially one of those who were early outside – there is talk of a bridge alternative. I have also followed this matter for a while. The bridge option you had to talk about here is probably the floating tunnel, or the floating bridge option, which many years ago was referred to as the ‘Högsfjord tube’ – which Bent Höie was inside – that was scrapped. The commission went for another alternative, precisely because you had spent a lot of money on it. You found out that it didn't come true, that is. you didn't take the chance to realize it. The alternative here is probably not a bridge. The alternative is still ferrying for very many years, perhaps in the foreseeable future, if you don't want to build a tunnel. Then it is important to remember that ferries also have a significant investment cost today. They also have large operating costs. So you have to compare to what's the option, and not with a zero option, that there shouldn't be anything there at all. I think that's an important dimension to have with it. As I tend to say in all the toll cases that we deal with: the Storting takes a position on the projects through the National Transport Plan and on those that we get presented in the annual budgets. In this case, we agree that tolls will be charged, and that a company will have to do so. That is our mandate today, and that is what the decision is about. There's someone who thinks it's a little strange that I'm not saying the same thing from this pulpit that I've said to a present national newspaper. Let's say that the report in that national newspaper is to be left, but the comparison I drew out in the interview with the journalist is dropped off in the article, and then it became a little pointless. I referred to a project in my home country that is at least as old as this, but has not yet come forward. Then it might make a little bit more sense in what I said. So to the high financing costs that Solvik-Olsen was in. It's the worst case rate, which makes sure that the project can withstand. Everyone knows that with the county guarantee, the interest rate today may be as much as two percentage points lower – and perhaps more than that. Then the picture will look quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5830	This is not about not wanting, because there is no doubt that you need a connection between Ryphylke, Sandnes, Stavanger and Jären. It will promote business, growth and housing, so there's no doubt that this is a very important project. There is also no doubt that it is one of our biggest road projects. It is then surprising that – when this is one of our largest and most important road projects – you do not actually listen to your own quality assurance of the project. We feel that the Council of State is smiling at the question of why the quality assurance report that is on the table is not being followed up. We also experience that large parts of the maintenance of the tunnel are away from the whole message. When we know that a conservative forecast indicates that in 20 years we will have a maintenance of at least 2.5 – maybe 3 – billion. kr, is the money we're talking about. There are no small coins in your pocket. What the Progress Party wants is actually to have a precautionary principle. We have a lot to learn from many projects in Norway in the field of road development. The Oslo soil tunnel is a good example – it’s almost almost a day without a car having a big problem there. Yes, the project is important and should be implemented, but not with the solution currently available. It's amazing to see that in this case you can deviate from the road standards, but if you start talking about safety on other extensions, it's actually the existing ÅDT you have to deal with. I must also say that I feel a little strange when the representative Halleraker starts to compare the position of the Progress Party in terms of quality reports; compares the Ryfast project with the submarine on the outside of Fedje. It wasn't a very good comparison, was it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5839	It has occasionally struck me when I have heard the representative Bård Hoksrud from this pulpit, that he believes there is a connection between the volume one uses on the voice, and how strongly one thinks it says. It's amazing when he says that he feels that I didn't take up what I picked up – what I also said to the World Times. I brought that matter up specifically in my post! I asked questions about the maintenance costs, and I challenged the Council of State to give a specific answer. In her posts there was no answer, so I chose to re-examine the matter during the exchange of replies. I thought I got a good answer from the Council of State, because the Council of State said she would consider including this in new propositions. It seems to me that I'm so close to admitting a state council can go, and it shows that it's an important substance point. It's more important for me to promote the substance rather than raise my voice. But it might be that the Progress Party needs a certain diversion in this case, for I heard the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen say there is no reason to doubt the commitment of the Progress Party to Ryfast. We are not the other representatives who cast doubt on it, but the Progress Party is doing very well today. We heard that in the first post from the representative of Sortevik, and we heard that from the representative of Haugland, who said that there is no good reason to go for the Ryfast project as it is today. So it's not like it's the great plural that's lifting this up, it's actually the Progress Party that's questioning its own commitment to this matter today. It seemed to me to be special when, for once, we get a toll project for which the Progress Party has been locally involved. The Rogaland Progress Party, together with the other parties in Rogaland, has said that this is such an important project that they can even accept toll funding. And it's not any toll project, so it's the toll project where the state part is actually zero. This project shows how well it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5846	It's very good to confirm from all of the parties here that this project has a very good value. Usually when things have very high value, an oil money will be used to finance it. We have a practice in today's government that when you can make money on an investment, you call the use of oil money property relocation, and then you take it on the outside of the state budget. It is a practice even to the right that we should apply in some areas, for example: in the case of the construction of lightning trains. The representative Halleraker was out in Stavanger Aftenblad a few years ago and said that lightning trains were so important that we had to take it extraordinarily, outside the state budget. Then we get this thing that has a huge value for money, and then the representative is talking about Kambe and all the other representatives very much about tolls – this is so important that we need to have tolls here. We have an economic policy in Norway today, where we think it is very important that the state and therefore our children and grandchildren inherit an airline called SAS, which has lost money in the last four years. However, it is not so important to build roads that we are willing to use oil money to build the roads that our children and grandchildren will inherit. Instead, maybe we should at best, says the representative Halleraker, finance this project for only 4.5 pst. interest rate instead of 6,5 pst. interest rate. It's still two and a half times more expensive for the drivers at the loan rate than what we're borrowing out our oil money to allow Germany to build roads. I think it's a completely meaningless use of our space of action in this country. It is completely pointless that we lend out our money, and borrow money again – two and a half times more expensive than we lent them out. But it's the Norwegian motorists who have to meet. E6, over Colomo, is the way Sigbjørn Johnsen runs when he goes home from Oslo every day, and it's financed to 6.5 pst. interest rate. 6.5 is not just a thoughtful number – it's actually the reality in many places. Let there still be no doubt that the Ryfast project is something that the Advance Party initially wants very strongly. It's not the Progress Party that has been running election campaigns in Rogaland that it's bad to run in tunnels – it's the people from the red-green parties that have done, for example. Hallgeir H. Langeland. We accept a tunnel solution, even though some people want other solutions. What we're sceptical about is just part of the solutions that come out of the KS2 report. That the other parties do not at all stress it in this debate, I think it is really scary. One has suddenly begun to compete with the Progress Party to be so preoccupied that one does not even care about the quality assurance. It is almost that one would think that yesterday’s climate agreement – where one wanted 50,000 more cars into the urban environment because all electric cars should have exemptions and no tolls – has also affected road views. We want a way, but they have to be safe and safe. When someone warns that a concrete project is not, we should take a breath in the ground to review the report again, and then start building.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5859	To repeat quickly the proposal of the Progress Party: we do not propose to build, as the case stands. The biggest request is that new KVUs be developed as soon as possible – I stress it – with alternative transport solutions between the Province and the mainland and for traffic solutions for Stavanger’s central areas. New KVU means looking with new and fresh eyes and taking over technology development. A small visit to the representative Halleraker: Yes, in a KVU modern floating bridge technology must also be considered. I know it's painful for the representative, who doesn't like to get his favorite projects disrupted by modern floating bridge technology, but that's the way it is, that it's possible, and it's reasonable to do. The majority has a mandate to approve funding, which is also used in this case. In fact, the requirement to exercise the mandate is that a project is identified, informed and verified. Here we are in a situation where there is a KS2 report, which concludes negative. Let me take it that it became known very late. It was ready for the consultants in December 2011, but it did not become public until a long time later – well in connection with the fact that the matter went to the Council of State. There has not been a theme in itself – it should be. We're going to do it in a different way. Abstention from the public as important a document as quality assurance is not good. We want to change that. We fought for that in the last period, and we still want to change it. I have not received a response from the Council of State on how many other major projects dealt with in Stortinget in the same way as this, which have a negative KS2 conclusion. I just think it's because there's no one else. This project is unique in many ways, including: in the unfortunate way that it actually has a quality assurance report related to it which does not recommend the project being carried out. There is yet another reason to recall that this is a regime introduced some years ago by the Ministry of Finance. The Progress Party fully supports the regime – we are going to spend the money responsibly. Whether it's with government funding, partial government funding or no government funding, we're going to use our mandate here in a sense. Then it was the end of my time, President. I remember challenging the ferry business. It should be possible to establish alternative solutions, alternative ferries, as has been done in Hordaland, after Kvisti Bru was built.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5873	I am tempted to challenge the previous talk after the post about floating bridges – is it so to understand that the Progress Party will now enter for the float bridge as an alternative to Rogfast? Otherwise, much has been referred to in the debate on the problems in the Oslofjord tunnel. I have to be allowed to say, as a man from the West, that unfortunately, too many times in this Chamber, Oslo's challenges and standards – which will apply to the rest of the country. The West already has many tunnels, including subsea tunnels. It's Rennfast, Finnfast, the Triangle Connection, and many northwards. Go and ask those who use these tunnels today, if they would go back to the ferry because it is so dangerous to run in them – they are so often connected. The answer would certainly have been no. In this case, we also have two tunnels, i.e. that there is a need for maintenance, that one will be open and one will be able to stop the traffic. There are far more frequent problems with ferries due to wind conditions and that kind of thing. It's also pointed to rv. 13, which is a passageway, which will be very much needed when you put these tunnels in place. Now, if you want to go through a new round with a new KVU, you have to start with blank sheets and draw again. So one has already taken decisions ten years ago, where one has imagined how evolution should be. We have the Solbakk tunnel, which is part of the E39, but which is also going to relieve this. Much work has been done in the planning of the region to ensure that the transport solution is what it is now. Therefore it will be very unfortunate to start a new desert hike. Holidays are not a solution for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5882	Making Ryfast a question of a shorter way to the cottage or home must be an insult to all those who have worked for a ferry-free connection over so many years, as we have heard today. To Arne Sortevik's question about business: Let me say that I actually have the benefit of meeting a company – a company – that does not go in for Ryfast. And why? That's because there are heavy costs today to cross the fjord. It's not that it's free. Both people and business pay every time they're out traveling. For two adults and two children on Tau-ferja it costs today 221 kroner without a discount. For a truck, for a commercial transport, there are several hundred dollars each time. That's what makes people now literally see light in the tunnel. They see the possibility of paying less than the cost of a ferry ticket, while being able to travel and speed right when they want to. Then I've been challenged on the maintenance. But let me first say at cost: 6.5 pst. That's what we're inputting. But the final agreement was made between the toll company and the Road Directorate, and the toll companies tend to have more favourable contracts than 6.5 pst. They're a long way to go about this. So for maintenance. Subsea tunnels therefore have high operating and maintenance costs. However, many have been built in the last few years, and many will be built in the coming years. Choice of the concept depends on the solution that the combined set provides the best solution. This means that maintenance is part of the assessment. So the question about KS2. No, I do not know any KS2 report that has been rejected, but I know that the department has rarely entered a KS2 report so badly. It's precisely because it's another professional body, that's those who are themselves professional authorities when it comes to roads, the Directorate of Roads, that have completely different considerations. But I can calculate two projects in a short time where the Progress Party has rejected the KS2 recommendation. It applies to the first U864, but it also applies to a transport project, i.e. the joint project along Mjøsa. It was clearly refused to build it as a joint project, despite the fact that the KS2 consultant advised the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5895	The President assumes that it is scarce to say to the Transport Committee that there are many long evenings this week...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5898	Yes, that's right, the Progress Party doesn't want to build in the beach zone along the whole of Mjösa – that's absolutely right. It is also not easy to deal with the submarine, as there are quite a number of investigations. This is an important project, but the question is: Is the project so important that we can't be there, or is it such that it will be carried out at any price? Are we going to sit on Stortinget and deviate from quality assurances based on which country we live in? Is that what's going to be our future? It won't be very objective. But the leader of the Christian People's Party, Knut Arild Hareide, was very pleased that the state shares are zero – this is going to be a huge project! Yes, the state shares were zero. But the driver's share is 92 pst. Of a total of 5.2 billion. The drivers shall pay NOK 4,84 billion. kr. In addition, the drivers are required to pay 4.7 billion. kr in additional costs. All in all, the drivers have to pay $9.94 billion. kr – and the state share is zero. I record that the leader of the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the sum that the state contributes to. I'm not sure if the drivers are as satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5907	I'm aware that the evenings can be late this week, so I should probably give up. I have to say that I am a little surprised when I hear the contributions of the Progress Party that go on both economics – the project that we are dealing with now – general economic policy, etc. So if there were to be a different majority in September next year, the jam will have a lot to fight with both Hareide, Höie and others in financing road projects in Norway. We have heard four-five speeches by representatives of the Progress Party today, each of which has its own way of seeing the financing of this project, and how to do it in the future. It's pretty amazing. In the case of road projects, we stand here with the very largest project, economically, adopted in Norway, and a party that claims to be serious in this area, but has a generous approach to how to finance it. It would have been interesting to be present at the group meeting of the Progress Party when they discussed the matter. I can mention what Per Sandberg said to Rogaland's newspaper on September 5, 2009. I don't like to be used to quoting everything from Storting's pulpit, but this isn't all possible, it's the Vice-Chairman of the Advance Party who says the following: ‘Building a road for the future is possible. All this depends on your political will. And the transport challenges on the North-Jear can be solved by building better roads." Yes, it could not be better said. But when you get this case to be dealt with in Stortinget, words are made into something else. You have to hear a lot before hearing these, is an old, good expression in the West. What matters to us – I would just like to say – is that the Progress Party today is developing a private consulting company that has assessed the economy of the project. Yes, that's right, it's out, but we're going to make the sovereign decision here in the Stortingen on how these assessments are going to be set up against each other, we're going to make the final decision. I think it is important to remind Stortingen now in the further consideration of this matter. I see it as clearly what the political majority is going to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5927	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5930	If I had not sat next to the Nordtun representative for a day, I would almost have thought he was a little slow about it. Because it is not that the Progress Party is opposed to having a ferry-free connection to the Ryfylke and Nord-Jären, it is about exactly this solution to this project. Is it that hard to understand? Per Sandberg has said what the Progress Party believes: Better roads are very important for a better Norway, because it will facilitate business, and it will facilitate people's way of getting around. It's important. But this isn't about being for or against a tunnel, like someone does. I like to drive in the tunnel, I like to drive Rennfast and Finnfast. The difference between Rennfast and Finnfast and Ryfast is not whether it is a good or bad tunnel. Well, that's actually what it is, because one tunnel has got red light where all the others have got green light, and that's why we get a little bit of thought about the exact model that is for Ryfast. Could we not then sit down for a few more months and get someone to test this and see if there are any problems or not? If these are not problems, the Progress Party is with them. But if the problems are confirmed, one has to have a different solution. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5937	I take the word, because it annoys me that the Progress Party now rides all the horses that are. In this case, we in SV have acknowledged that we had a vision that did not reach. That vision is losing today. What does the Progress Party do? Yes, they're for Ryfast in Rogaland. If a person goes in and asks them on Forward, leave or bridge? Yeah, we didn't get the Storting to figure that out, so it could be us would be for that as well. And then it's Tauferja, we're for it, ask the ones who are for a ferry. Yes, but we didn't get the Storting to figure it out, but we could land on it too – yes, at all. And then it's money. The whole range of arguments in all directions - what is this party? Don't they have any soul that says this stands for us? Here's one for Ryfast, here's one for ferry, here's one for bridge, here's one for you and for date. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I believe the voters on the North-Jear, in Rogaland, see that what they are doing is unworthy of a political party. Stand up and stand for what they stand for! I think the voters in Rogaland like that - not parties trying to crack in all directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5946	The final cost of the car stops is unclear because the final agreement was made between the toll company and the Road Directorate, and the final cost is lower than that in the proposal. What I've been focusing on, and I'm glad that the Stortinge has joined, is that any reduced costs will benefit the road users through the Solbakk tunnel. So until KS2: I record that the Progress Party explains, comes up with arguments for why they have gone away and not followed KS2 on two named projects. Well, that's what the government and the majority in Stortinget have done; we have listened to what the KS2 consultant has to say. I have to say from the government that it is rare that we have gone so thoroughly – I do not know that we have ever done so – into a KS2 report. But then, what is presented in that report must also be tried against those who are the real experts on the road, namely road traffic control. They're the ones with the best expertise in road construction, and they're recommending to build the project. I'm guessing the Prom must startle with the Oslofjord Tunnel. They have to realize that the Solbakk tunnel is something completely different because there are two runs in each direction, with escape routes. The progress party is talking about asking for two months to go through the case. It's been done thoroughly in advance. That's why the recommendation is what it's from the government's side. It's actually to avoid the advice given by the KS2 consultants, which will mean: Move back to start - start again after all these years. Ten years of intensive local work have gone on. There is a time for planning and discussion, and there is a time for implementation and realization. All aspects of the project have been carefully assessed. Now it's up to you to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5957	The representative Arne Sortevik has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5960	Regarding this thorough assessment, which is the basis for the conclusion of the Ministry of Government and the Ministry of Transport, the consultants Holte Consulting and Vista Analysis, which are hand-picked and fine-tuning by the Ministry of Finance, say the following, in response to the assessment of their own quality assurance report: They comment on the models used by the State Road Service and conclude – as it says in the setting, page 5 – that they are ‘almost worthless because they opt out of all relationships between the level of tolls, travel patterns and travel options’. So it's the thorough foundation that the Council of State is using to run the case, despite an unusually clear conclusion in one single project in the transport sector. The other two that are tried, submarine, Dovrebanen and E6, have very special conditions associated with them, so they're bad examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5968	When the council reminds me that this is going to be a two-way tunnel, I come to the story of when Rennfast was to be built. The contractor Trygve Stangeland was going to build it faster by starting at both ends of drilling, and got questions from Arne Rettedal about what happened if they didn't meet in the middle. Then Trygve Stangeland said, "Then you get two tunnels at the same price." The proposal presented by the Progress Party clearly shows that they not only want an alternative to Ryfast, but they also want an alternative to traffic solutions for Stavanger's central areas, linked to both the Hundvåg to Stavanger tunnel and the Eiganes tunnel. Then it's worth remembering the story, because the Högsfjord project spent a 19 years trying to realize. After 19 years, patience was over, although many of us were also concerned that resuming would take a long time. And it took a long time – it took 13 years. The proposals of the Progress Party do not only involve the postponement of a few months. It will involve many years of postponement, not only for all those in the Ryflies who want a ferry-free option, but for all the thousands who are in line over the Dog Wave Bridge every single morning and staggering through the Stavanger Centre, and all those who are in line in the Tjensvoll Cross every single morning because a lock the whole E39 through the Tjensvoll Cross instead of passing through an Eiganes Tunnel. This is about the fact that the Progress Party will expose good traffic solutions not only to Ryfylke but also to the big city of Stavanger for many years to come through the alternative proposal put forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5979	Now we've come a long way in the debate, I've been listening to this, and I've never listened to my husband's debate. It's been engaging. This is a very important matter both for Rogaland, for private and for business – at all. Now we have clearly come so far into the debate that I will excuse myself from describing the matter. But at least I have to say that low is a fine word for what has happened. I have rarely and never heard such a unison assembly attack the Progress Party – and because of the fact that a KS2 impact assessment 2 has now arrived, which shows that this is not an equally simple project just to start, even though we never want to. Here we are responsible – if something happens, we are actually responsible for it. And I haven't heard anyone come up with factual and good arguments to meet what KS2 shows. It surprises me. I have to say that I have been abandoned because of the fact that it is possible for all the parties to take such a sharp, serious warning that comes out. Why in the world do those who have investigated KS2 come with these warnings – is it because they have self-interest in it? Shouldn't we take this seriously and do something about it? Let me make it clear that the Advance Party will have a connection to the Ryfylke. That's for sure. Then we can paint as much as we want the concrete proposal of the Progress Party. I'll quote that, and it goes like this: ‘The size does not recommend rv. 13 Typhoid compound is built as proposed in Prop. [[Ryfast]] [[2011-2012]] 109 S This is very important, but for the Progress Party, the most important thing is that we have a safe and secure fjord crossing. That then we're going to ride the kepphester here and talk about how many years this has been worked on, and at all just jump on something to get a solution, is simply to gamble a little too much. At least I'm glad the Progress Party doesn't. Then I hope that people have the opportunity to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e5995	I had been glad to get the first word in this case and had actually thought that I would get the last as well. But I'm really worried that someone is hurting, but I can take the word again. This has been a long debate. In advance, it was stipulated that we would use 40 minutes. Now we've probably spent a couple of hours, at least, but compared to those that have lasted 30 years, or if it was 40 years, to realize this, I thought the National Assembly could take on such time. The debate has been good, I think. We've come up with what's both unity and disunity, and things you're wondering about. There have been very strong testimonies from the Stavanger region and the Ryflies, and I would like to say specifically to those associated with Stavanger, from several parties: Stavanger is a growing centre for us, which is important not only for Stavanger and Rogaland, but for the whole country, because there is so much happening around there. That there are growing pains in and around Stavanger, one can do something about this project. I think it's very important that a group of people open up in this way, as an attractive and beautiful building area, I would also mean, plus that there's industry there that can interact with the outside world in a much better way. Several have suggested that interest rates may be lower than the 6.5 pst. which you calculated here. I think so. I think there are several projects that show that a clearer to get better interest rates. Then I'll again show you what's in the plural note that if there's a more favourable economy in the project as a whole, it's the cost to those who travel through the Solbakk tunnel, which is going to go down in the first row. I think there's a lot of reason to think that this is also going to be more reasonable than what you've calculated with. Then it's like traveling into a tunnel like this by car, you use AutoPASS. Then you only pay one price. If you bring a passenger, you bring two or three or four, you don't pay anything for them. So there's a crack point there: the more you have with you, the more reasonable it becomes. That is why I believe that especially those who commute will find good arrangements and will be able to cope with this too. I'm from Stord. We got the Triangle connection. What opened up there was a whole new collective quarter. In my district, a bus was not used to running, other than the church bus on Sunday morning. But now we travel by bus all the way, and it's going perfectly well. So this can also be used for public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6012	I could not help myself when the case rapporteur started talking about the break point and the collective interest. That's what's part of the big challenge around the project, and that KS2 is actually taking on, and that's the traffic and the volume of traffic. I also think quite clearly that there are challenges to that. As the representative of Sortevik said, the calculations of TASS 5 are almost worthless as both model users and subsequent traffic seminars have defined all relationships between toll levels, travel patterns and travel options. There's a pretty strong diet compared to this project. To the representative of Langeland, who said that now you have to stand up for something. We actually stand up for something, because we believe that with the things that have come up on this matter, there are many challenges that make you choose to say no to the proposed proposal, but we want to put in place a mainland connection to Ryfast. But I'm curious if the representative Langeland, who is opposed to the project, who has been fighting against the project for all time, is going to vote for the project today, or maybe he isn't going to be present today. It might be interesting if the representative Langeland is going to stand up for something. Then I want to say to some of the last information that has emerged in the last few days, and that's that it's about 130 million. kr in maintenance costs only for the two tunnels. It's more money than all that my home country gets for transportation in a year to the county road network – and it's for two tunnels. I think that's too many other states too, which get much less than 130 million. to make investments and maintenance on their road network. So I realize that a lot of people react. $2,6 billion. kr – of course, if this decision is taken, we must maintain the tunnels and ensure that they are safe to drive. But I'm afraid we're going to see a cost check on this project. It's going to be expensive, and unfortunately it's going to be the inhabitants of Rogaland who probably have to take the bill when the county council has to make up for its 6 billion guarantee. kr. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid that in a few years' time, as I said in my previous post, I'm going to say, what did I say? It went as I feared, but not as I hope. Because I hope, of course, and I'm happy for every meter of asphalt. But I think this is a game of chance. I am uncertain whether we have chosen a good solution, especially with regard to the quality assurance and the report that comes from there, which is so clear and clear, and even after the Road Directorate has submitted its proposal, and used a few lines in the proposition as to why they simply reject the KS2. But that means that we don't have to spend millions of dollars a year on KS2 or KS1, because there's something the government doesn't choose to take into account anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6023	First, the State charges maintenance costs on tunnels. So a little bit to that with a broken point. Then I think in relation to ferries. I don't know if Hoksrud is so used to ferries – domestic ferries. Then questions were asked about the volume of traffic and these external consultants. Yeah, they're external, and they're probably pretty good at calculating, but it's been twelve other things just around these things. It is then the average or aggregation of the resultants. So I'd like to mention something else that the majority have in their comments, which can become very interesting in the future, and that can help bring down the costs: ‘The majority welcome the provision of a mandatory piece in the context of the revision of the national transport plan. If it were to be introduced, it would cut the cost of automatic toll collection significantly and it would improve the economy both for Ryfast and for other toll projects.» When it comes to the collection costs of the autopassword, there are particularly high costs associated with those who do not have the chip. Now we have introduced during the year a mandatory piece for all vehicles above 7,5 tonnes. It may be, as NTP suggests, that this limit is changed downwards. Then one will also get a more reasonable collection. So a little bit to the proposals of the Progress Party: ‘The size request that new KVUs be developed as soon as possible with alternative transport solutions between the Province and the mainland and for traffic solutions for Stavanger’s central areas.’ «As soon as possible» – yes, as I have understood it, «as soon as possible» could be 10 years. And with the testimonies we've received today from those around Stavanger, there's no time to wait ten years to find a good enough traffic solution. That's why the only option is to go for what's going on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6044	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6058	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6067	The Ministry of Transport puts forward a number of issues such as: includes the Bergen programme and the continuation of the scheme for the collection of local fuel tax in Tromsø. I'll explain the majority's views on these issues. With regard to the comments on Oslopackak 3, the representative Hov Egg will explain the majority’s views on that matter. The size has previously joined an extension of the Bergen programme. The urban railway in Bergen has been very successful. There are now proposals for further extension of the Bergen programme, which will allow for the opening of the third stage of the Urban Railway, as well as some other measures. Before the matter can be referred to the Stortinget, a KS2 shall be implemented. In order to ensure the continuous development of the Urban Railway, Hordaland County Municipality has applied for 55 million. kr in tolls for the third stage of 2012 and this shall be done by Bergen Bompengegesellschaft AS increasing the borrowing in the meantime. All the parties, as close as the Progress Party, support the Ministry of Transport's recommendation to join in. The city railway is an extremely important part of the collective service in Bergen, and has in a short time become a success. Further expansion is necessary in order to meet the growing population in Bergen with collective solutions, and the majority are concerned that it is important to ensure continuous development. The collection of local fuel charges in Tromsø has contributed to the necessary development of infrastructure in the municipality. However, the scheme expires in the summer, and now the municipality of Tromsø and the county municipality of Tromsø have applied for a further four years to be extended until 31 July 2016. All the parties in the municipal government in Tromsø have stood behind this, including the Progress Party. Tromsøpacket 3, step 1, will include measures for public transport, for walking, cycling and road safety measures. Priority is also given to planning future actions in accordance with the concept selection study for the transport system in Tromsø. However, a four-year extension will generate small revenues. The main bet has therefore been added to a stretch in the city – Stakkevollvegen. This is one of the most trafficked roads in Tromsø, between the centre and the university and hospital areas in Breivika. Now you secure bicycle fields and two-sided pavements throughout the route, and all the parties in the committee, minus the Progress Party, believe that it is positive and in line with the climate agreement. Tromsø is facing major challenges in future infrastructure, not least the concept selection study points to. This concerns the entire Committee. Investment measures need to be taken both on national roads, on public transport and in order to improve walking and cycling conditions. The municipality is also experiencing strong growth in the population, and Tromsø plays a central role in the development of the northern regions. An overall committee therefore expresses concern about the capacity and environmental challenges associated with the transport system in Tromsø. These include: land scarcity for both housing and industrial development as a result of the transport system. Therefore, the Red-Green parties believe that it is very regrettable that the Progress Party-Right Town Council in Tromsø has so far shown no willingness to solve the major infrastructure challenges facing the municipality. By parking out previous decisions on co-financing for important transport projects such as the construction of a new route to Tromsø – new E8 – and by not introducing measures that would qualify Tromsø for the reward scheme, urban infrastructure development has stopped. I have registered that both representatives from the NHO, the Federation of Industry, the UN and the Højres own spokesman for transport policy, Øyvind Halleraker, have warned against this. At long last the County Council for Transport, Terje Olsen from the Right, has gone, who has asked the Storting to overrun the Advance Party and the Right Town Council in Tromsø to ensure the realization of the new E8. The new E8 represents the main transport year into the largest city in North Norway. With its decision, the bourgeois majority of the local government has pushed this project all the way into the blue. There are many who share the fear that the lack of predictability and willingness to implement the necessary measures to improve the infrastructure will weaken the position of Tromsø as an engine in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6095	First of all, I will deal with the continuation of the local fuel charges in the so-called Tromsøpack 3 and how these funds are intended to be used in the project. As most people have come with it, the Progress Party does not want any more charges to the drivers, the drivers have more than enough charges from before. But it is a little strange to see what the ministry is thinking about: the Ministry emphasises that the local fuel tax scheme does not have to be seen as a new municipal fee to solve ordinary tasks on the main road network, and that measures to be financed by the fuel tax must constitute an exceptional effort through the construction of a main road network in Tromsø. But of the 92 million. NOK calculated from this fuel charge on Stakkevollvegen, shall be 46 million. kr, or half, is used for purposes completely different from those on the main road network. Forty-six million. from the driving lists are planned to be used for measures other than the main road, walking, cycling and other measures. So if we're going to take the ministry statements seriously, there's little doubt that this is nothing but an implementation or an extension of a new fee. The proposition also includes a foreclosure of the E39 Högkühlen-Harangen in the South Trøndelag. The Progress Party supports this advance, but believes that it is directly wrong and insecure that the government is taking on a road width of 8.5 metres on a European road. Not least, this is going to be wrong when we know that the distance is at risk of accident. The progress batch prioritises road safety and therefore wishes to build the road with a width of 12,5 metres. The paradox is that the Minister of Transport repeatedly blames the former governments for building undersized roads, and then in this case, as in several cases, to call for undersized road widths so that for the future there will not be room for a roadcarrier. It's serious that we have a government that doesn't put security first. Centrifugal work eliminates approx. 80 pst. of front-to-front collisions, the most serious accidents, with the greatest damage. But the government will rather reduce expenditure, and wants to continue building roads for the past and not for the future. As regards the further development of the Urban Railway in Bergen, mentioned in the Proposition, the Progress Party does not wish to recommend such an extension, or borrowing, before such a project could possibly be linked to new lines to Flesland and Åsane and connected to the national network. In such a solution, the Progress Party wishes to underline the importance of coordination between the Railway Agency, the NSB and the Avinor. Flesland should be given priority as a national modal transport hub, where freight port, rail, road and aerodrome are connected. Such a solution will facilitate the traffic situation, significantly reduce emissions in and around Bergen and free large areas from traffic in the centre areas. Such a project requires state regulation, organisation and funding. That's how you can solve the challenges Bergen has. The proposal also deals with the delay in modernising the current licence and motor vehicle registers. The Progress Party would like to stress that once again Stortinget presents that the cost framework for the deployment of computer systems cracks and is completely out of plan and control. The project had a governance framework of 250 million. Now, the number is 763 million. kr – a preliminary crack of more than 300 pst. and a temporary delay of seven years. Is that possible? This is irresponsible, irresponsible and a rude way to spend taxpayers' money. I would like to remind you that the Progress Party is promoting a proposal to put in place an ICT-Hazari Commission, not for the sake of the sharing of blame, but for the public to learn from the mistakes that have been made. The Advance Party will record Oslopackak 3 later in the process. I refer to the proposal from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6114	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6117	I think the case rapporteur has had a steady hand on this matter – there are several cases in one case, which are dealt with quite quickly, and some of them are also quite large. So I must say that today is certainly the day to wonder about the Advancement Party. So here we get an article, from the party's spokesman, about solutions in Bergen and Hordaland that no one in Bergen and Hordaland have asked for. Where is the anchoring of the local and regional areas? They've been struggling for years to find solutions, to find funding and to raise their own books and toll solutions, and then you're going to be told from this pulpit that you're thinking completely wrong, because we're thinking right in here. It's not the way that Right-Hand Drives Transport Policy. I very much agree that we now get this decision to extend the loan framework, so that you can keep pace. But I hope that the Council of State in its statement can say a little more about when this toll application is completed – it is, after all, just about a doubling of the fee. So it shouldn't be so very complicated – so you can continue the work that you have foreseen. It implies the existence of a decision before 1 January 2012. In the case of Oslopackak 3 in this case, I am recording large costs for the development of internal systems. I know I have nothing to do with it, but yet I see that a number of other toll companies choose to put off the operation of their collection schemes and make a lot of money on it, which means that you can spend even more on the road. The mountain line chooses to do this on its own, and it may also be that the Mountain line could benefit from being put to a competitive disadvantage, only as mentioned. In the case of E39 High Cooling – Harangen, we are basically just where we were yesterday when we talked about E16, and that we build too narrow a road – we build for the past. Right-wing believes – as we have expressed in our traffic safety plan – that we need to lower the threshold for when we are going to build a non-convenient road – middle-part solutions – and then we need to reach 12.5 metres in order to achieve it. That is why we also have a proposal on the matter which has already been put forward. I think we're going to see that traffic also here is going to increase more than the forecast suggests, and that it would be wise already to do that expansion. Of course, in the case of the Tromsø case, which is really the main thing, as it has been presented, we support the scheme that has been there for many years, and the enlargement that is now taking place. The representative, Bjørnflaten, says that in Tromsø we have a new political regime that does not pass on the decisions that have been made in the past. We have to respect that they have a different attitude to, but it is right, as I have said, that those who come to the Stortinget and ask for their projects to be carried out by being involved and contributing to the funding succeed as a rule. The alternative is to wait until there is enough government funding in place. It's a proper presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6136	The case spokesperson has done a good job for the government party in this matter, but I still want to go back to yesterday, when we had a climate debate in Stortinget – I am thinking from the point of view of the Progress Party. They were angry because they didn't get to be in the so-called climate deal. But see for yourself a debate today, as we have today in this matter, if the Progress Party would be involved in the climate agreement, where one should take the growth of public transport and not private car transport. It would be exciting to be on. As I said yesterday, I am very happy that the Progress Party is not taking part in climate responsibility, so that they can run on coal, as usual. Yesterday, there was also a lot of debate about transport, and the collective solutions were referred to as the right of the future – both in terms of urban railways, more investment on trains and electric cars. The collective, climate-friendly track was at all high on the agenda yesterday. So it's a little strange that some cities aren't so good at this. When one looks at Trondheim, who has an agreement with the state, and who has actually reduced its private car traffic by 10 pst. and increase significantly in public transport, it is strange that not other cities also think so. As we know, e.g. The NHO favours restrictive measures in urban areas, because they know that this leads to more money being generated. If the goods are not loaded anywhere, it means things are going faster. That's why it's a little disturbing that bigger cities in Norway – Tromsø, Bergen, Oslo, which we're talking about here – don't go hard enough. There's a lot to get for climate change, because we're uniting less, but also for business, that's thinking more. In addition, the environment, and not least air pollution, is becoming better, which is a problem in all cities, especially during winter. There is no doubt that the Urban Railway in Bergen has been a success. He has the Advance Party countered the whole road. When I read what the Progress Party writes in the setting that the Urban Railway requires street ground, I wonder if it is the Progress Party's policy to tear down the Urban Railway because it takes up space for the parking spaces, or does it accept the part that is built, and will not build any more? That's how I read it, but one starts to fool when it's crazy that the Urban Railway in Bergen – which has been a success – takes up so much space. Now I see that the representative Sortevik is drawing on the list of speakers, so I expect that we will get an answer to that question. In the North Jären, where I'm going, there are also urban orbital plans, but they're still writing away in the newspapers about how angry they are on the mountain sares who've got it, while in the North Jären and in the Stavanger region they haven't done it yet. At least it is a clear goal that Stavanger should also get to this as the Bergen success shows. It is such that Tromsø has changed the political course somewhat. I don't know how to interpret Halleraker, but I'll interpret it a little bit there that no matter which regime exists locally in a city, it's up to me to cooperate on the premises like this. an air-conditioning settlement provides, and as an air-conditioning arrangement provides. Because it's a broad political plurality that's behind it, and if a municipality doesn't stick to the broad political climate gap at Stortinget, it's clear that a loser is losing a lot of money. I would like to join in and support the signals that Halleraker gives to the municipality of Tromsø to play on teams with the authorities. Then there will be more and better transport solutions for Tromsø. When it comes to Oslo, to which Siri Hov Egg will come back, we are very clear from the government party that the climate agreement also applies. There is a need for growth in public transport. We can't have any more impending car traffic into this city. So that's where I expect Oslo to adjust its price in relation to the climate agreement, so that the state can contribute more financial resources to Oslo, and all major cities, such as one agreed yesterday in connection with the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6155	I want to thank the case spokesperson for a good job. The Christian People's Party also joins its government in this conspiracy proposition. I would like to comment briefly on three things. The one is the mountain program. It's very good that there is now a development for the Urban Railway. So it's the third stage that's now ready to start. In a comment from the Right, there is also a need for a new toll request. I want to say that I'm joining the material from the Right's side, it's illogical to get it in place. However, the Christian People's Party has chosen not to join that remark. This is because Bergen has spent a relatively long time in the treatment, and the cause has not been so long in the department. But I share with the Right my insolence in the matter. A state council that has treated the world’s longest tunnel so quickly will also be able to deal with this matter quickly and in a good way. That's the Tromsø perspective. We are certain that the fuel charges will be passed on. I also share a skepticism that Tromsø should be more willing to use restrictive measures, but I think it should come from the local initiative. That applies to all toll requests that we deal with here. However, it is also important that the municipality itself and the city itself are allowed to choose what restrictive measures they will have. The third thing I finally want to comment on is Oslopackakt 3, where we now have a consensus. I thought that was very good. But it's a paradox that with that unity we also know that if we are closed with what's the goal behind Oslopack 3, to get fewer to run cars and more to run collectively, if we're closed with it, also the funding base of Oslopackak 3. What I mean is a common challenge, not least for the great plurality in this case, which looks at tolls as a necessary evil that we share in accepting. I think that when we are going to deal with the National Transport Plan in a year's time, it's a challenge that we have to look at, that we actually have a system failure that if we close down to getting more from car and over on public transport, then also the funding base disappears.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6166	Let me first comment on the three things that apply to our cities. The first is the revision of Oslopackak 3. I am pleased that the Committee does not comment on the information that the toll company Fjelllinje AS has drawn up an operational loan of approximately 900 million. kr in addition to the SEK 1.6 billion. kr that the Storting has previously agreed to. I would like to ask the State Road Administration to ensure better routines in dealing with such cases. So the revision of Oslopackak 3 is a matter with which I will come back to Stortinget, first in the budget proposal in the fall and then in connection with the National Transport Plan next spring. Oslo and Akershus face major challenges in view of strong population growth. As the Stortinget has now agreed in the climate agreement, the growth of passenger transport must be achieved through public transport, bicycles and corridors. Similarly to the Committee, I also believe that there must be a target for the metropolitan area, Oslopakt 3, that one expects traffic growth to be a solution by investing in environmentally friendly modes of transport. When it comes to the Bergen programme, I have the following to say: In order to ensure a continuous expansion of the Urban Railway, Hordaland County has applied for permission to benefit from 55 million. kr in tolls for the third stage of the Urban Railway in 2012. I recommend this in order to ensure the necessary progress in the pre-construction design for the third stage of the Urban Railway. Then the toll proposition for the Bergen program is called here. To that it is to answer that I do not intend to leave him in the department for a long time; he has not yet come there. Therefore, my answer is that he should be provided when sufficient clarifications are made. When it comes to Tromsø and the question of extending the fuel tax there, there is a great need for investment in the transport system in Tromsø, both on the national roads, for public transport and for walking and sick countries. The city has significant population growth and plays an important role in the development of the north. If you are not closed in establishing good transport solutions, you may be at risk of growing outside the country. There is a cross-political consensus on passing on the fees in the Municipality of Tromsø. It is good that both the municipality of Tromsø and the municipality of Tromsø want to make a stronger commitment to public transport, road safety and measures for pedestrians and sick people. Such a device is also in line with the government’s climate notification. However, it is also worth noting that the extension of the fuel charge generates relatively small revenues compared to the total need for further development of the transport system in Tromsø. I have to take note that the municipality of Tromsø and the municipality of Tromsø have so far not wished for such an amount of traffic charges as are common in other urban areas. The planned activities for the next four years are too low. Then it is good – and I am pleased – that Stortinget supports the proposal for the continuation of the scheme. At least there is a contribution to the necessary action. There is great joy locally associated with the advance of Harangen-High Cooling. Two county councils have taken initiatives to advance, and I agree with the heart. This means plant start-up in September 2012, and the entire project can be planned to be opened for traffic in 2015. Finally, a review of Autosys. Then, in the last seconds, I have to say that the Stortinge will know that the Ministry of Transport is following this matter carefully and will come back with the mention of Autosys in the 2013 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6190	We now get some things that seem to be just a little bit of a briefing, or an overall proposition. But Autosys, where the cost estimate has now gone from 250 million. DKK to over 760 million. kr, has huge exceedances. It's getting closer to trends in defense, where we've seen great exceedances. Not enough with this: We experience large exceedances in the Oslopackakt 3 projects from 53 billion. kr, which is the original Oslopackakket 3, to SEK 99 billion. kr in the last estimate. What does the Council of State do to control what you're doing, how do you protect yourself against just getting out with some random numbers, what does it do to those who are doing this – and in addition, how do you get to borrow 900 million? kr that you really don't have the right to borrow? There are actually three rather serious issues that lie within this collective proposition, which seem to be an easy matter to get through in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6200	It's not my opinion to hide matters by talking about them as other things. On the contrary, it is common practice in the Transport Committee that there will be a collection of cases around the month of May. Some of them are so big that they come as their own business. Let me answer first when it applies to the 900 million. kr and the borrowing of the Mountain Line AS. There the State Road Administration has been told to put in place better routines. When it concerns Oslopack 3, we come back to that matter both in the budget and in the NTP. Then I have to say some words about Autosys, because I totally agree with Hoksrud. It's an alarming cost increase. It is about modernising today's driving licence and motor vehicle register. These are nine months of delay due to functional scale and technical complexity. With the confidence of the Progress Party in quality assurance, it should be borne in mind that both the State Road Administration and the Ministry have associated themselves with external quality insurers in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6207	My question is on the Bergen programme. The loan framework is good and good, but it is also important to get that progress in the planning of the entire package that you want. It depends on the financial framework around the project being cleared. It happens through the toll request. Then I hear the council says it hasn't come to her. That's unfortunately correct. It's at one of her underpants. I've also heard a slightly different story from central road people. So this is a good day for the Council of State and also for us others who are because we build roads in this country. I would like to ask the Council of State to ask for this matter and perhaps to put a little real "kleppa-speed" in it, even though it is Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6214	With reference to the previous case, I must remind you that a KS2 report was completed before Christmas. Then I am glad that the Storting took this matter so quickly. We share that joy. When it comes to this case about the Bergen program, I have already asked for it. It's because I know there's a lousy thing about following up the program. There are major challenges to progress both in Bergen and in other municipalities in the region. So I have to say that what I said – that’s what we say – is that the Ministry of Transport will come back to the extension of the Bergen programme when adequate clarifications are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6221	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer she gave about the Bergen programme both in her article and in the reply now. I feel discouraged after getting the toll request in place. That is also what the Council of State said. What I want to challenge is the climate agreement, where we have now become aware that the state will contribute more to the major urban packages. That's what I thought was very good, because there's so many challenges on the collective side that a larger part of the state is absolutely necessary. So now it's obvious that there's going to be a proper system for this. I'm thinking about Oslopak 3 there, for example. The fornebuban with respect to time is well ahead of 2018. So my question is very simple: when the climate agreement is now in place, can the Council of State ensure that when NTP is put forward next year, we have a good order in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6228	From the government's point of view, it was an order for the budgets with regard to the proposal that they were to prepare and make proposals on how the state could participate with greater co-financing than today. They have. Then the Stortinget – a broad majority – has happily confirmed this in the climate agreement, both that the state should take a greater part, and also the proposal that it is public transport, corridors and bicycles that must take on the growth of the major urban areas. We're working on a system ready for NTP, and today I've had a meeting with KS's metropolitan network to listen to how the major urban areas themselves look at what should be prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6235	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6240	In the summer of 2006, a wide range of political parties submitted the now-mentioned Oslopackak 3 deal. All parties, except the Progress Party in Akershus and Red in Oslo, came together to address the region’s road/collective traffic challenges. The strength of political conciliation is that they tolerate a political storm and an election change or two. They remove dividing lines and make the lots responsible for the settlement. In the coming years, there is a formidable population growth in Oslo and Akershus. Robust transport systems and good collective solutions are needed. The latter is essential, because the region needs car-restrictive measures, and – as the majority point out – growth must be taken collectively. So it's like today that one in four kroner already goes from tolls to the operation of public transport. A few weeks ago, a new, revised Oslopackak 3 was presented by those who had negotiated. A settlement may be continued, albeit with some defrosting. In 2006 the Progress Party in Oslo joined the negotiating table and found a solution. They eliminated the cappists and actively contributed to the launch of the Oslopacket 3 deal. In 2012 the cappists were found, and we can thus record so far that the Progress Party has notified its departure from the entire Oslopacket 3 deal. It goes well into the range of toll resistances they show quite strongly in this room. That's why I have to say, especially to the Right, that without the Workers' Party there would not be any Oslo Package 3, and it requires that the Workers' Party and the Right also have to work together on major issues in order to create forward-looking and good, long-term solutions. Yesterday we adopted the climate agreement. Tomorrow, Oslo City Council will deal with Oslopackak 3. Next Monday, the county council of Akershus will deal with Oslopackakt3 and until the autumn, the Stortinget will continue to do so in the budget. At the press conference for the revised package, it was said that Oslopacket 3 does not solve everything, but it is absolutely crucial for the region. Whether this is a proper step towards a more climate-friendly metropolitan area remains to be seen. The expectations in the hall are great. Finally, I have to say to the right party and the representative Halleraker that it is gratifying that the right is once again lifting up the competitive launching of the toll company Mountain Line. Then I recommend the representative Halleraker and Right to call their party colleagues who run in Oslo and Akershus, and say exactly this. They've been running this job for quite a while. There hasn't been a big theme, so I recommend the Right to take it up. I record that the region does not want this – nor does the Right in Oslo and Akershus want to put this company out of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6257	Among many things in the proposition is also a review of the Bergen programme. Two things about it – first to the representative Langeland: The tram is partly and temporarily full. There are people and passengers who no longer have buses. There is no demonstrable increase in public transport. The system's been relocated. There's a lot of bypasses. Those who travelled directly before are now travelling by car, and the collective share is now counted on the basis of the number of roundabouts. If it had been parliamentary to say that, I would call it political bluff. But there are no well-documented calculations that the collective share has actually increased in Bergen with the trick. But what unfortunately has disappeared – and it is probably partly due to the administrative reform – is the last part of the second main project, not the City Railway, but the second main project, which is an important ring road link in the big city of Bergen. The fact that we are to have well-functioning transport systems in the largest cities depends on their good road connections and, in particular, on good bypass connections. Now we are building the second part of the important ring road, Ringvej West. We're good at that. You're in front of the form, you've spent less money, you're actually assuming to do this 200 million. kr cheaper than assumed. But there's 830 million missing. to finance the third stage of construction for the whole of the ring road to take effect. It is important to build the project completely. Only then will a good environmental impact be achieved – with the address of several previous speakers. Then it's important that the state takes responsibility. In our note on extended loans to the Urban Railway, we have just pointed out that in the big cities, in fact, the state has to take far more and more responsibility for planning, coordination and, not least, financing, also for building good, environmentally sound road measures that Ringweg West is now. So now it looks like the third project part is going to be cut out in time. When this project was started, Ringvei West was a highway. Now it's a county road project. Then there is unfortunately a danger that it will sail its own sea for a while, because there is no economy in the county to complete that promise. So the call from the Progress Party is that the state takes greater responsibility, and ensures that the Ringvei West is completed and has finished funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6277	I think it is good that the Council of State and the State Road Service now address the problems of Autosys, because it is very important to get a proper system in place. There's a lot of people who use it, and it's important that the information here is actually correct. However, I think it is special that you also manage to get exceedances that make the costs more than three times as large. That's a lot -- and it just comes as a little bit of a totality in a collective proposition. There's a lot of exceedances here. Then I want to come back to Oslopackak 3. It's pretty interesting what's lying here, and I think it's interesting that you're probably about to make a deal that says 60 pst. the revenues generated by the driving licences shall be used for public transport. That sounds good. I heard it from the pulpit here yesterday in connection with the climate agreement, and I hear it today, how great it is that people should begin to travel collectively: yes, think if people had done it. Imagine if anyone who drives a car into this city had stopped doing it – tomorrow – and started traveling collectively. First of all, there would be no room at all for the collective offer you have. Secondly, everything would stop completely – because the drivers have to stand for 60 p.m., or now 50 p.m., of the funding of the collective offer in this city. In fact, during and after the financial crisis, what was really able to reduce car traffic was seen – that was the financial crisis. Then the passages through the toll stations in Oslo went down by 5 pst. There is nothing else that has ever managed to reduce the number of bombings. Then I think it's a little special that it's now just easy to figure out that you've allowed the Mountain Line to borrow 900 million. in addition to the frames set in this room. It does not seem that this has led to much more than having been said to the State Road Administration that they now have to take care of this. It's pretty serious, it's a lot of money. If you say maybe it's 3-4 pst. interest, it's going to be $4 million. kr per 100 mill. kr – if it is 4 pst. interest rate. That means a place between 35 and 36 million. kr every year is charged to interest expenditure on a loan that was not really allowed to be raised. I think it's incredibly special, and I think it's incredibly serious that it just comes as a little bit of an approximation proposition. But I realize that it's a good way to get everything into a butter, and then you treat it as a matter instead of taking it seriously, as you should. As I said, it's very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6290	When I hear the representative Langeland talk about climate and the Progress Party, I am happy that he does not practice what he is trained to do, namely teach, because he would teach his students delusions – not facts. Let me take some of the points that ‘teacher’ Langeland is trying to teach others. He claims that the Progress Party chose to stand out of the climate agreement. We all know that very well is wrong. It was SV who did not want the Progress Party to help improve the climate agreement – so that we could have got a policy that played along with business and households. Instead, we see the result of what is SV and the red-green policy in the current position, namely a massive effort on more charges, more bans and more restrictions – because people want to drive less cars and more collectively. The Progress Party wants to get a better functioning infrastructure, better functioning road systems, fewer cows and like people to travel more collectively. But our approach is not, therefore, prohibition, restrictions and taxes. It's encouraging people to want to travel collectively, because they see that everyday life is getting easier, they see that they like to work while sitting on trains and buses instead of having to follow the road ahead of them. But we want them to choose this because they want to. Therefore, the Progress Party has presented positive instruments in this room which will achieve the same results, probably better results. The Progress Party proposed that the employer should be able to pay collective cards to their employees and that it should be tax-free for them. The government itself has estimated that it would move 175 000 drivers from car to bus and train. That would give us a formidable result. But that's what government parties say no to – probably because it works, and because it would at the same time reduce tax revenue a little. So Langeland is talking about that this was important to get to, because we're going to take the cars away from the city center. We're not going to have more cars, people are going to drive a bus. Then it's worth remembering that the climate agreement that these parties have been involved in will actually stimulate increased car traffic in cities. 50000 electric cars shall be allowed to be completely free of charge, have free parking and free passage in the bombings. Everything should be free if you're just driving an electric car. How many electric cars do you think you'll put the car away and drive a bus to the city? No one. Who buys an electric car in Norway? There are people who live around the big cities, and they don't have to commute far, but they're going to commute on traffic routes, and they're going to drop all the costs. So here's a lack of coherence between what SV says they've done and what they've actually done. It's a little sad to break the illusion, but teachers and bigotry representatives need to deal with reality, and not make their own dream world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6308	As a teacher, I don't know if I'm going to put Ketil Solvik-Olsen in the cache, because it's really where he belongs. But we no longer use such instruments. It's only interesting to hear that the Progress Party, like the only party that's not in the climate deal, has the very best climate policy and has really understood everything that coming government parties Right have not understood. By defining Langeland and SV, he also defines Right. The right is in favour of this good, brilliant climate agreement on which the Progress Party does not agree, with the 30 proposals they voted on yesterday. I have to say that it would have been very exciting to have the Progress Party in a conciliation, and it has shown the debates we have had in practical policy after the climate agreement. After all, it is not Ketil Solvik-Olsen's profile that emerges, but the old, good progress party profile that everyone knows – down with taxes and taxes, everyone will get their way, everyone will have their car, everyone will get everything, everyone will get their taxes! You're the ones profiling the game now, after they didn't join the climate deal. So this is kind of an analysis of the situation from a teacher's point of view, even though it's 15 years since I was a teacher. The quality of my learning stuff is probably getting worse with the years, I think, so that's maybe why Ketil hangs up in this. Some of the solutions that climate friends have – and I also talk about my friends in the Right – are what business wants, and I talk about them, for example. road pricing and rush time charges, which work in Stockholm and which will work in Norwegian cities and which businesses want. Why do they want to do that? Is it primarily because of climate? No, it's because it leads to more money from business. But this definitely is not the progress party busy. They are most concerned that everyone should drive into the city center with their car – it’s like the main profile. I think I'm stupid, because they think it's important for business to make money, that we do something for the climate, and that we do something for asthmatics and people who get problems because of local pollution. In the end, when it comes to an electric car, I'm very happy that there's a broad majority that makes sure that Norway is the best in the world on an electric car. It is obvious that if we have electric car traffic, one in the long term must limit it. But until then, it is clear that we would much rather have electric cars inside Oslo, in Stavanger and in Norwegian cities than heavily impure diesel cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6321	The President assumes that the Ketil is the representative of Solvik-Olsen. It would have been an advantage if he were mentioned as such. Otherwise, the representative of Solvik-Olsen shall now have the floor. Go ahead, Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6326	Thank you, President. So we're very much on the Rogaland bench, although we're also very disagreeable. Langeland admitted here that we should strengthen the post of continuing education for teachers. The need is present, and now it's beginning to be it also for those who don't practice it, simply because they don't have a pulpit that others listen to. But let me remind you again that the climate agreement was a government game. The Progress Party wanted to participate. We actually negotiated as a total block on the civil side, so we took the arguments internally in the bourgeois parties – not when we met the red-green ones. Then we negotiated as a total block. This has even been confirmed by the Left, which initially does not agree very much with everything that the Progress Party stands for in climate, and vice versa. Unfortunately, it was a bit too heavy for Langeland and his comrades to see that the Progress Party would conduct a climate policy in which emissions were cut, but where one was also more business-friendly and consumer-friendly than the SV felt they could be. That's why we were thrown out. It was that simple. So it has nothing to do with the content of politics, but with the games of politics, and unfortunately games are more important than content when discussing climate with SV. But that does not mean that the views of the Progress Party were not relevant, because many of the points in the climate agreement were actually progress party policy. We see that part of the things that we boast of, for example. In the field of technology development, it was the Progress Party that played on the civil side – not the other parties and especially not SV. I remind you that when the NHO created their electoral guide before the 2009 elections, they evaluated the parties, among other things. on transport and on climate. The progress party was the party that got the highest score on climate. That wasn't SV. For the Progress Party has understood how business works. In fact, we've had people working in private business -- and not just trained as teachers -- and that actually makes us see the importance of being able to make money on what a driver does. This has been understood by the NHO, and that's why they give us a good score, and we got a good score on transportation. So we scored well in both areas. That is why I think we should listen to the NHO rather than to the representative of Langeland when one is discussing this. It is true that business will make more money if there is less queue on the roads, and that's exactly why the Progress Party proposed to build better roads. But that's exactly why the Progress Party also proposed to strengthen public transport – not by trying to ban private cars in cities, but by making it more interesting to drive buses and trains. We did so, among other things. by proposing that collective cards should be tax-free if paid by the employer. What surprises me is that all the other parties in Stortinget have voted against this – despite the fact that all the other parties in Stortinget even have it programmed, or they promised it in the 2009 election campaign. This is probably an example where one gives the impression of being very offensive in infrastructure and in public policy, but when one is actually going to do things on Stortinget, it's only fun if one can tax or charge one of the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6343	Hallgeir H. Langeland has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute – up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6346	Let me start with what Ketil Solvik-Olsen ended with, that is, with a collective card. Here I totally agree with the Progress Party, and this has SV advanced many times, but we haven't managed to get multiples for it. We also work on something that the Progress Party may not be as enthusiastic about – that one can actually drive to work and have free parking space, but that one is not allowed to get a free collective card and at the same time not get problems with the tax. So this proposal I am still working on, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, and it may be that at some point I am doing this in relation to the Ministry of Finance and others who have not yet wanted it. Finally, when it comes to car traffic: Just building a road has also been tried in the favourite country of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, in the United States. It doesn't help - you need to do collective action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6355	I don't intend to extend this so much. I'll be very short, even if I have three minutes. There's one thing that amazes me. Yesterday I myself participated in the climate debate here in Stortinget, and from what the Progress Party showed at its top Per-Willy Amundsen in that debate, I am almost happy that – almost to say – you did not come to the table. But what amazes me a lot is that the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has now stopped for two days because he has not been around the table. Then it would have been very interesting to hear about why he is attacking the government parties around the world because he didn't come around the table? Why doesn't he attack his partners in the opposition because he didn't come to that table? He has not responded to that until today. And in fact, I think he's going to have to jump out of the bag soon – had I almost said – and explain why he didn't join the good company, and not owe the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6364	The term ‘sutre’ is hardly used in the field of general parliamentary language, and the President requests that it not be used to characterise other representatives. Mr Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6369	I think this was a very clever comment from the representative Stroem, because the Progress Party has always said that we are disappointed that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left accepted the game as SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party added up. But I understand that the Right judged it so that if they had not sat down at the negotiating table on the Workers' Party's command, they would also be told not to negotiate. Unfortunately, it just means that the game won. The working party directed this. But what's nice is that on the civil side we saw the outlines of a very good cooperation, where one had a total climate package that was more economical, more consumer friendly and had cut bigger than the government put up in its climate communication and got into the deal. This testifies to the fact that in 2013 we will have a better policy than the government has. The government has shown that the best they can do is play games and not politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6390	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6399	E6 and E10 north of Narvik are among the most important transport years in the region. It binds the regions of Nordland and Troms and is also linked to Sweden via the national border. Narvik is a significant traffic hub for rail and road freight distribution today and there is reason to believe that with this investment this will be reinforced. Better road standards are particularly important both for industry and the population of Ofoten and the whole country. Hålogalandsbrua will bring considerable benefits to road users and business transporters, reducing E6 by 18 km and a standard lift that will improve road safety. The E10 Tjäldal-Leirvik ski safety reduces the risk of rock jumping for travellers on the route. The new bridge connection will provide a shorter travel distance between Narvik and Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes. Therefore, it is considered that Narvik Airport, Framnes, is closed when the Halogalandsbrua is opened in 2016. That the savings at the closure of Narvik airport, Framnes, will contribute to the adoption of the financing of Hålogalandsbrua in St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009. This is the local political support. The Narvik municipality decision on airport closure showed that the airport can be closed when the bridge is open for traffic. Brua is scheduled to be completed in 2016 and there is a background for the Ministry of Transport to declare that Narvik Airport will be closed when the bridge is opened for traffic and the Committee has joined. Should the opening of the bridge be shifted beyond 1 December 2016, it is assessed that the airport will be closed at the end of the contract period for the State purchased route between Narvik and Bodø on 31 March 2017. This is subject to the assessment by the Air Safety Authority that the technical and operational approval of the airport can be extended until that time. To a large extent, the Committee has agreed to this. There is a broad consensus, with the exception of the Advance Party, which has a different approach to the aerodrome closure and to the financing. I assume that the party will explain its views on this matter. It is important to also look at the need for a strengthening of the airport bus offer between Narvik and Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes. We ask that this be assessed until the closure of Narvik airport. There is a poor offer of some departures today, and there will be a need to look at the collective solutions in the future until 2016. It is a wish that the Committee has been concerned about. There is local support for the implementation of the project with partial toll financing. The financial plan has a governance framework, translated into 2012 krone, of EUR 2480 million. NOK 2830 million and cost framework. kr. The estimate includes 10 million. kr for the establishment of toll stations. In concrete terms, it's $1,590 million. SEK in State resources, 860 million. DKK in tolls and 30 million. NOK in grants from the municipality of Narvik. Finally, I want to add a few words for my own account. This is a matter I've been very happy about – not least to be allowed to be the case rapporteur for it. It's a matter I've been following for a long time from different roles in the county council and as party leader. There has been a project that has required cooperation from start to finish. This is good evidence of local cooperation, with business and local actors, regional cooperation, cooperation in the national community and cooperation at national level. Not least in this case, Nord-Norge has been working together on this project, and it has done so that the project has been lifted faster than it would otherwise have been. With this project, we bind the Ofoten region, North Norway and the country together. The Narvik region becomes an even stronger logistical node, and it's very important that we get to it in the future and keep strengthening it. I would like to end by thanking the Committee for its goodwill for a very quick procedure, so that we were able to have the decision before the summer. It was flexibility from all sides, and it is incredibly important for the region that we have this adopted before the summer. So congratulations to Ofoten, to Nordland, to North Norway and to the country, and also to the fact that we are now building the country!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6416	It is very gratifying to be here today as a representative from the Nordic countries and from Narvik and to participate in the adoption of the proposition on the development and financing of the Hålogalandsbrua. Today is not just a milestone for Narvik as a logistics hub in North Norway, but a milestone for the whole region. The fact that several local authorities in several municipalities, several county councils and county councils and not least individuals and business actors work together for a long time results. It's useful. Hålogalandsbrua will bind North Norway closer together and shorten the travel time between the largest cities of the region by 15-20 minutes. It was already in 1986-1987 the idea of shortening the travel time between Narvik and Øyjord was launched, and the following year an interim regime was set down. The fact that the municipality of the Workers' Party's rapporteur Odd G. Andreassen raised the matter was an initiative of the Ofoten Nutrition Council and the Chairman of the Board of Directors Alf Martin Solvin. Business has always been behind the project, supporting it with lobbying, investigation, good words and resources. There's a broad consensus locally. It has been absolutely essential that we adopt the project here today in Stortinget. At the end of the 1980s there was a tunnel under or a new bridge over the Rombaksfjord. Already then, it was realized that toll financing was absolutely necessary to achieve such a large project. Cooperation with the State Road Administration and Narvik Municipality resulted in a consensus in 1996 to set aside the tunnel option and explore two alternatives. One was a new bridge, and the other was upgrading the road around the fjord – with a long tunnel from the north side of the Rombaken to Gésvik. Possibilities analyses carried out by the municipality in 1997 and 1998 are also key milestones. These documented land resources on Island soil and a significant toll potential at new bridges. It is a patient and nine-time work from business and politicians in Narvik and centrally – such as Tor Arne Ström, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, Torstein Rudihagen and, not least, former director of the Bruges Company, Kjell Opseth – that has now resulted in the Brua finally being built. In the processes that have been carried out around this development at local and county level, it has always been assumed that the city airport in Framneslia will be shut down when the bridge is open to traffic. I am very pleased that these assumptions are followed up by the Ministry of Transport and are the basis for the decisions the Storting is making today. When the bridge is in place, there will be an acceptable travel time from the city centre to the airport at approximately. Forty minutes. This will mean major development opportunities for the Harstad/Narvik parent aerodrome, Evenes. It could mean more departures both northwards and southwards. Brua will also mean opportunities for new areas for both business and housing in Øyjord, a part of the city that is now only a bridge away from the centre. Brua will not least improve the transport efficiency of goods in the north. Narvik is the hub of goods in and out of the country, via road and train, and eventually via sea and trains to and from Narvik. Hålogalandsbrua, several crossing tracks and later double tracks on Ofotbanen are therefore important and correct north-eastern action. In addition, some, perhaps optimistic souls, have suggested that during the construction of the bridge some tourists will find it interesting to visit the construction site. Yes, it has even been suggested that this should be something the television companies could be interested in creating a reality series about. Architecturally, this becomes a great construction, in all modesty, in a natural environment. I will end by making the words of former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete my: The project Hålogalandsbrua is one of the foremost symbols of how we better connect the country. And to those who say that building bridges in the districts is bad social economy, I would say that Hålogalandsbrua is actually one of the most socio-economically profitable projects we have in our national transport plan. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6437	There is little doubt that this is a good and proper transport project that will bind the regions together. The project will also reduce travel time, improve the standard, increase road safety and promote the competitiveness of business. The project and the bridge link will also lead to shorter travel distances between Narvik and Evenes, thus strengthening the whole part of the country. But it is also very clear that the department uses local consensus when it wants to, and largely ignores it when local forces disagree with the department. One of these cases is the closure of Narvik Airport. And if this house is to impute local democracy authority and power, something like the Council of State and among other things. the party on the right has talked about several times, it should actually be in favour of the solution of the Progress Party, because we want the treatment of Narvik airport to be dealt with in NTP 2014-2023. That's where it belongs. We are all aware that our airport structure in Norway is being cross-financed, and that we only have a few airports with profits. The new thing in this case is that now our airports should also be involved in cross-financing bridges and road development. In practice, it will work as long as Avinor is 100 pst. user-funded. The proposal, as set out in the proposal, removes any doubt that from today on, passengers will be involved in financing Hålogalandsbrua. It is no longer enough for the state to take closer to 50 pst. dividends from Avinor – now, in addition, 100 million are to be collected. kr from Narvik Airport, which has always gone down. This is nothing more than a new type of user-driven tax finance that reduces Avinor’s financial forces. In practice, this would mean that aerodrome expansions and security measures at our aerodromes could be postponed, for Avinor is currently at the maximum loan amount of the permitted one. Personally, I grew up in a work stroke and not least in a work home. I learned early that it was expensive to be poor. That it is expensive to be poor, we also get access today, for once again the bill is sent for a completely necessary and correct development of transport to Ola and Kari – in this case the driver. It is so expensive to be poor that the poor driver has to pay $1,810 million. NOK to pay NOK 860 million. kr. 960 million. kr in interest and costs disappear straight up in the pipe. I learn that someone believes that it is financially responsible to use 960 million. kr on firing at the crows, but in my eyes this is irresponsible and immoral and a direct exchange of our own people. This makes it visible that we have a government that is not there for its own people – only for its own part. This is not just about the government; the Left, the Right and the Christian People's Party have voted in favour of all the proposals. The Progress Party is opposed to more taxes, taxes and public intervention – let it be clear. But the paradox is that today's financing system is extremely expensive. Since 2005 and until the end of the summer, the Stortinget has adopted toll roads for 120 billion. kr. Of these, the tolls represent $91 billion. In addition to this, 21 billion is going to be going to be. DKK to cover interest payable and SEK 8 billion. kr shall cover the collection costs. In other words, the majority at Stortinget has imposed the Maybe the crows are satisfied with the waste, but they must be the only ones, too. State full funding would easily prevent such waste with the money of others. This is illogical, unprofitable and irresponsible. I find that being a driver in Norway is still very expensive. I am promoting the proposal of this Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6456	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6459	The Right too will congratulate this region on the day. It is a milestone and a joyous day for the most populous region of North Norway when the very important road project E6 Hålogalandsbrua – with routes of administration – and escape protection of E10 Tjäldal-Leirvik gets its final treatment here in the Stortinget, and when the planters, if not for too long, can start. I remind you that in the current NTP, this project is one of the most socio-economically profitable. Hålogalandsbrua has an impact far beyond Narvik’s borders and has a comprehensive cross-party and cross-border support. The fact that the project is realised as a spice layer between the country and the users is also accepted by the vast majority. An overall part of the country has supported proposals to give the highest priority to E6 standard-setting projects. The bottlenecks on this important European road are still numerous, and impatience is high in ensuring better accessibility both for commercial traffic and for other road users. The road project related to Hålogalandsbrua means not only a shorter route, but also that a very accident-related road map between Narvik and Bjerkvik is replaced by a modern road with better standards on which to travel safely. In addition, 18 km savings will deliver significant environmental benefits on one of the most traffic-laden roads in North Norway. Narvik, like several representatives, is one of the busiest logistics hubs in the north, where road and rail are connected. This generates extensive freight and commercial traffic, which is in addition to the use of the road by the rest of the population. The establishment of several large wholesale warehouses in Narvik at the end of Ofotbanen means that increasing volumes of freight are transferred from trains to a rapidly increasing number of trailers, moving further northwards and westwards along E6 and E10. The E6 from Narvik and northwards and the E10 towards Sør-Troms and Lofoten are now also the main trajectories for the export of large quantities of fish from the fishery and aquaculture industries. Good availability is essential for fresh fish to reach their markets in time. For a region where the railway does not represent an alternative like a parallel to the E6, it is all the more important that road systems have standards that ensure open roads throughout the year, and road systems that act as effective locks of goods up to the customer, whether out of the country or within the country. Harstad/Narvik Airport Evenes is an aviation hub and a central base aerodrome for North North and South Troms. It is important for the population and at least equally important for an ever-growing business in this region. Nevertheless, it is the fact that the regional air routes are not as good as desirable. Today, regional flights are shared between Evenes and Framneslia. I do not conceal that in the region, both from the political and from the business community, there is a clear expectation in the region that the realization of Hålogalandsbrua and the transfer of regional traffic from Framneslia to Evenes will provide a much better domestic flight offer. An expected increase in travel activity across Evenes will also provide the basis for an extension of the route offer on the main network. From the right, we will also strongly emphasise the road project Hålogalandbrua as a road safety project. Today's road from Narvik towards Bjerkvik is very variable, with severe driving conditions winter time and with a traffic load far beyond the one for which the road was once dimensioned. And the road has unfortunately accumulated a very gloomy accident statistics, with many lost lives and many serious injuries – losses and injuries that cannot be measured in money. It is therefore an undeniable fact that improved road standard experience means saved life and fewer damage. The new route of supply bridge will provide a modern, high-quality road and therefore will provide us with great human benefits as well as the environmental benefit of fewer kilometres and reduced emissions from significant heavy goods transport. I've had the pleasure of following the work with Hålogalandsbrua from its very beginning. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I can today take part in the decision that means that the project is taking the decisive step forward towards realization. I look forward to the wedding in 2016, and I will not be surprised if the flag is lifted both in Narvik and in Harstad today – because this matter is so important for an entire region and for two cities that have developed an ever closer and better cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6491	Like most of the others who have spoken, I would also like to stress that when Hålogalandsbrua, who is being treated today, is one of the most important and most important road projects in North Norway. When the bridge is finished in four years, one of the big bottlenecks in the county will be gone. The road around the Rombaksfjord is heavily damaged. Like many other road projects and bridge projects that have been dealt with here in the hall, this one also has its history, and I allow myself a short look back. What has made this project possible? Why has it been prioritised? And why has the Storting come so early in relation to what was in the National Transport Plan? The most important reason is that traffic from Narvik and northwards has increased radically over the past 10–15 years. The large transport of goods by rail from Oslo to North Norway via Narvik with the ARE train has increased dramatically, and Narvik has become the transport hub for all goods transport to North Norway north of Narvik. 80 pst. of this transport takes place by the Oslo-Narvik railway and is transhipped to further northwards transport. There's a stream of trailers heading north from Narvik every day. It has made the road around Ofotfjord a bottleneck that you could no longer live with. The second important reason is that courageous and far-sighted local politicians in Narvik – with the support of the municipality of Nordland – dare to think anew to create a forward-looking transport solution. They said they were willing to put the local airport into the financing pot and have been on this priority until today. It has cost, because of course it has been local resistance to just that – understandably enough. But just this willingness to think in the long term and see the region and the continent in a larger perspective has produced results. That's why this is a happy day in so many ways. The local politicians in Narvik – as many others should see – have thus shown their way. It gives us results to think about new things. The decision to build the Hålogalandsbrua is a decision that goes into history as one of the most important decisions for the development of the Narvik, Ofoten and South Troms region in very many decades. It will redraw the map and link the Lofoten, the Vestral, Ofoten and the South-Troms to each other, with the ringing effects it will produce for the future. Hålogalandsbrua is also perhaps the most socially useful road project in North Norway, measured by the cost-benefit analysis of the transport sector. In addition to the benefits we will gain from improving and shortening the E6 and removing an accident-affected bottleneck, it will provide the basis for strengthening the transport of goods by rail from Oslo to North Norway. Therefore, there is also an important railway justification in the construction of the bridge. In addition to its positive rail side effects, it will strengthen not least Evene Airport as a regional airport with an improved route offer. I was going to end it, but I see that I have some time left, and then I would like to make a brief comment to the representative of the Progress Party who was in the pulpit and read out a lesson on tolls. Yes, we have heard that from the local representatives of the Progress Party in Narvik for the last 15-20 years. They have swung between it to go against the bridge and it to be too brown as the wind has blown. The point is that if we had listened to these advices, if we had taken the position of tolls that the Progress Party has announced here today, we would not have had this debate today. Then Hålogalandsbrua had not been on the map. Then it had not been built. Then we might have debated in five to six years the upgrading of the Rombak road and been delayed for many, many decades before we had got a solution northward. There has been a political line that Narvik has fortunately overlooked. You have to think about something new, as I said, and you have managed to work together with the county council and the whole part of the country. It's given results. Fortunately, we have not listened to the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6508	When the Storting today joins the construction of the E6 Hålogaland bridge, it is a brand day, not just for the Ofoten region, but for the whole of Northern Norway. Less than three weeks ago, I was working with red-green staging representatives in Narvik to present the proposition of bridge over the Rombaken. It weighed great joy and optimism. I am very pleased that the government with this presented shows that we are following the NTP initiative to strengthen the infrastructure in the north. It is desirable that Norway should be able to stand up as robust and competitive also in the international development of the north. It has been added to plant start-up in the fall. The bridge is due to be completed in 2016. It will give huge benefits to road users who travel on the E6 in the area. Reducing the running distance between Narvik and Bjerkvik by 18 km and reducing the running time by 15-20 minutes says how we literally bind the country better together and reduce time use and distance costs. The project will provide significant improvements to road safety. The standard on the road of the day is bad. The road is particularly exposed on the south side of the Rombaken. There are four registered deaths and seven serious injuries between 2001 and 2010. The project is considered to be socially viable, despite the fact that the relatively high toll rates will, of course, give some traffic rejection. With the current methods used to count the socio-economic profitability of transport investment, it is an exception that road projects come out as socially viable. The case spokesperson has done a brilliant job for the project itself. Let me just say that when the bridge over the spacebar becomes a suspension bridge of 1,533 meters, it becomes the second longest in Norway. Here is a lot of experience getting from Hardangerbrua, which will be finished in summer 2013. There is no direct connection between the savings resulting from the closure of the Airport and the financing of the project. However, savings from the closure of Narvik Airport, Framnes, contribute to the provision of adequate government funds to finance the bridge. The Government has proposed a closure of the airport in 2016, at the same time as the opening of the Hålogalandsbrua. The closure is an arrangement for the construction of the bridge and is in line with local decisions and clarifications. This means that Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes, is being strengthened as a transport hub for air traffic. I've noticed the Progress Party's concern for Avinor's economic situation. Let me make sure that the government will ensure that Avinor has a framework that allows the company to solve the tasks that the company is supposed to perform. In less than a day’s time, the Stortinget now makes decisions that give hope and optimism, which provide a better everyday life and a safer way for people and businesses, in Valdres, in Uppland, in Ryfylke and on the Northern Jären in Rogaland – and now, in this case, in Northern Ireland. It tells about a government investing in transportation. Then I have to say that it's nice to listen to the local history that comes out, relate to the individual project, and that complements these decisions in a very special way. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Norwegian authorities for their prompt treatment. That's how the work can get started in the fall. Finally, I would like to congratulate the people of Ofoten and the entire part of the country on this very important project.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6536	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6539	I very much agree with the Minister for Transport: this is a fantastic transportation project. It will lift the whole region. But then it's the funding. In this case, we see that the drivers have to pay $1,810 million. NOK to pay NOK 860 million. kr, as required in toll ratio. 960 million. kr disappears in interest and costs. Does the Council of State feel that it is a sensible management of the money of others when half disappears?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6547	Let me say that the final toll rates have not yet been clarified. It is the toll company and the Road Directorate that enter into an agreement in the individual case. We're also adding 6.5 pst to this proposition. interest on land. There is reason to believe that the toll company will obtain an interest rate agreement where interest rates are lower. I also want to say that we have a government that invests in transportation. We're using 12 billion. kr more to traffic per year now than what one did before we took over. I'm very happy with all the local splinter layers that are involved in making these funds, so that we can build even more roads and paths. Here's a lot of work to do, even if it's very positive for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6554	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6559	The Minister for Transport said in his speech that there was a joyous day in Narvik a while ago. Yeah, it was a happy night on May 24th. I was one of the red-greens who was so lucky to be present when the bride was launched. It's also a happy day today. Hopefully it will also be a night of joy. When we look up at the gallery, we see that representatives from both the Ofoten region and Narvik are present to follow this debate. This shows the interest you have had in this wedding project for many years. It might be a little dangerous to give some praise. It's been a long way to go. But I actually think it's important to bring out those who have broken the road, and then I will, among other things. drew attention to former rapporteur Odd G. Andreassen, and not least one of those who was also in charge of the bridge project, former Minister of Transport Kjell Opseth. Much of this work was done on the Transport Committee in 2003 or 2004 — when it was also signed there — when Hålogalandsbrua was introduced as one of the three major projects in the Nordic region. The project E6 Hålogalandsbrua is a good example of thorough and long-term cooperation. This applies at state level between the offices and departments, in the Stortinget, in the county municipalities of Nordland and Troms, between municipalities and regions of the north and south of Troms, and not least in the host municipality of Narvik. This also applies to the National Subcommittee, several business associations and multi-level trade unions. Then I don't think I forgot about anyone. In Narvik Municipality, the idea of a new bridge has a long history. The reason has been the very accident-affected road route around Rombaksfjorden, the racial danger on both sides of the fjord, a rapidly growing heavy traffic and the desire for greater proximity between the municipalities of Ofoten, Lofoten, Vesteralen and Sør-Troms, and not least for the whole of Northland and North Norway, as mentioned earlier. Here in Stortinget, Hålogalandsbrua has been a theme – as I said – since 2003, and has been mentioned in our national transport plans, most recently in the one on the table today. This is an important factor in the development of Narvik as a central traffic hub in the North Callot. The starting point is the well-known and important ore transport via Narvik port based on the rich ore deposits in northern Sweden and now also in northern Finland. This business will grow strongly, and therefore it is important that this bridge be put in place and that it can be opened in 2016. Then it'll be a happy day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6574	This is not just a joyous day for the northerners, also we from the Troms jubilee today. As many people have said before me, Hålogalandsbrua is one of the most important transport projects in the north, which will connect the whole region more closely. Municipalities from both Nordland and Troms have been represented in the Hålogalandsbrua Steering Group. With regard to our municipalities in South Troms, Narvik is the nearest and most important city, so this is a very important project also for us in Troms. Therefore, the Troms County has also prioritised the wedding project highly in its input to the National Transport Plan. There are many people who have mentioned that the route today is a very accident-affected route. There are extremely demanding conditions for heavy traffic, and this is a stretch that is extremely important for business and for the people of the north. According to estimates made by the State Road Administration, the Narvik-Tromsø route has a freight volume three times that of all other routes in North Norway. The Narvik-Harstad and Narvik-Zortland routes also have a lot of freight transport, and it is just a bridge over the Rombak fjord that constitutes the trunk or axis of this. These include: The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen was inside, the amount of goods on the trailer will probably only increase, because we also have high ambitions to expand Ofotbanen in the light of the need we have to increase the capacity to carry more goods on Ofotbanen. Most of the goods are transported further from Narvik by train, mainly northwards and westwards. Transport is a significant cost to business in the north for both time and money, and therefore the construction of the new bridge is the most socially useful project that can be launched in North Norway. I'm not worried about Avinor's income, as opposed to Fredriksen's representative. I think there's a lot of reason to think that this will help to increase the activity of Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes. Statoil has now decided to add the operating organisation for the Asta Hansteen project to Harstad. This will lead to an increase in activity above the aerodrome. I think we're going to see far more direct routes from the airport, I think we're going to see an increase in regularity, and I think it's going to lead to far more attractive than today's use of Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes. In sum, I think it's going to benefit also Avinor, especially when travel time from Narvik to Evenes is now reduced by 20 minutes. I would also like to congratulate everyone in the north on the day – this is a milestone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6587	I take the floor in this case because this is a matter of great importance for a large region with many inhabitants, both in Troms, in the North and in the rest of the country. This is a big day in the north, with more people in it. Such cases are often of much greater importance than just the individual issue in question. This is a very good example of this. Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes is also located in the north, although the approach lights are located in the municipality of Skånland in Troms. Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes is of the utmost importance to all of us living in this large region. Therefore, Hålogalandsbrua is so important – also for Troms, because it will clearly strengthen the airport at Evenes and make access to the region much easier. Building the Hålogalandsbrua and at the same time shutting down the Narvik airport will strengthen the airport at Evenes, as the representative Aspaker was inside, and as the Council of State also said. I also believe that this strengthening of the airport at Evenes will help improve air traffic within the country. This large region, Northland and Troms, is in a good and positive development. One of the main challenges facing businesses and individuals in this region is the connections between the different parts of North Norway. I look at the suspension, and hear today, that the Progress Party also demonstrates its resistance to tolls in this case and thus the rapid realization of this important project. I am pleased that the Progress Party is alone in this, and that the other parties clearly ensure that this large and important region in North Norway is now given the promise that is needed to further develop the region. I hope that the Progress Party will think about the consequences of this when other such matters come to the fore. I often hear that the representatives of the Progress Party criticise that little is happening in the transport sector. Today we are dealing with a new case that shows that the Progress Party again takes the wrong line in its black-painting of the red-green parties' efforts. On the other hand, I fear that the pace of implementation would be much weaker if the Progress Party had steered progress. The debates we have heard today are making a clear offer on this, and it will probably be noticed in the areas affected. Let's hope for all of this that the Progress Party will remain in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6602	This is a historic day, and a joyous day, for the whole of North Norway when the Stortinget now adopts the construction of the Hålogalandsbrua. That's good reason to say congratulations on the day to the people of the north. The project is a flagship for infrastructure in the north, and shows that the government with the Minister of Transport, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in the head, is concerned with this kind of bet. This effort will be a boost for the whole region and for the whole part of the country, which many people have been involved in today's debate. I'm sure there's going to be a new time calculation in this area. It will be before and after the construction of the Hålogaland bridge. It will be a marker for development for future generations in the north. This will contribute to increased optimism and confidence in the future in the region, and it will show for the future that the Storting and a whole part of the country at all levels made bold decisions. Such a large investment in infrastructure will help to bring the cities of Narvik and Harstad closer together. This will also contribute to a shorter journey to Tromsø. It will provide new opportunities for cooperation in the region and will contribute to new opportunities for business. The axis between Harstad, such as the state's oil capital, and Narvik, as a technology centre, will have new opportunities for development and closer links between economic operators and the knowledge environment that are important for development in the north. In this way, Hålogalandsbrua is very important both for the organisation, for the development of business and knowledge in the country. Hålogalandsbrua will also contribute positively to the potential for development in the municipalities around Narvik. This is particularly true for the neighbouring municipality in the north, Gratenge. When the bridge is finished, it will be possible to day commute to Narvik, and the municipality is already in the process of facilitating both new residents and new business start-ups. There's a lot of optimism in the area. Hålogalandsbrua shows that political cooperation in the north produces results, as the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås said. The whole of North Norway has come together to upgrade E6 and, in particular, to build the Hålogalandsbrua. In the same way that the district has been united on the Halogaland bridge, it is important that the part of the country now stands together when a new national transport plan is to be drawn up. This plan is to be adopted next spring, and it is essential that the district gathers for the benefit of people and businesses in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6619	This is obviously a win-win situation for a very strong region in North Norway, the Narvik–Harstad axis that is perhaps within its most positive development at the moment. This is a new step up and forward. This is a contribution to saving time, which also improves the region’s competitiveness. This means that there are new challenges ahead of the leaders in the region. This is a region that has also shown the ability to cooperate, as several in previous articles have pointed out very strongly. It's given praise, which we've noticed on this occasion. It may be a day to give praise here to steadfast politicians who have fought for years, and who have realized that a political year is likely to last 365 days. One of those who gave the rose a kind of self-declaration was the case-rapporteur – with good reason. I want to bring forward the case rapporteur on an occasion like this, which has followed the matter from his time in the county municipality, in the department and now in the Stortinget, and has shown the ability to raise a case up and down. I would also like to commend you for a quick treatment on the part of the government and the Stortinget. This has helped to ensure that the necessary decisions can now be taken, so that the bridge will be completed in 2016. For Evene Airport, new opportunities will open up. Former speakers have pointed out that Statoil is developing the oil city of Harstad. There's going to be an increase in traffic base. Without that I will be accused of being a proponent, much might suggest that on Thursday events will get the host for a fighter base, at least a QRA. If any of the things in the proposition are correct, there will also be a significant increase in activity through it. This means that the aerodrome will have many more opportunities, including in national and international contexts, as a hub for the whole of this region. Finally, if the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa is concerned with her legacy before she has to leave next year, her new, big challenge will be to work as quickly as possible to put in place a proposition for the financing of double tracks on Ofotban. This is a good recording, and I am sure that with today's example she is able to complete that project as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6632	I'm a little unsure if the representative Ivar Kristiansen was talking a little bit about himself when he concluded that the fighter planes were going to land on Evenes. I have a slightly different plan. It's said very well here tonight, and I could sign most of the time. This is a bad road calculation that's accident-affected. There has been a sharp increase in heavy transport in the area, and transport by rail on trailers has increased sharply in the case of fishery products shipped from Lofoten and the Westphalia to Narvik and beyond by train. It's very, very good. I also think it is very good that we get new road sections also in Northern Ireland. But the discussion is not about whether you agree or disagree with the project. I want to provide an information for those who do not know: Lofast, E10, was built – and hold on – without tolls. Road construction is a state task. What the red-greens are doing is privatizing the road construction. When I listen to several of the representatives – like Geir-Ketil Hansen and Bendiks H. Arnesen – who have the floor, one would think that it was not known that it was in this room that funding was determined. You can't blame others. It is we, through the votes here, who decide whether we should have tolls, or whether we should use the huge surplus we have to finance roads in Norway. I heard Hansen say that he was very pleased that in both Narvik and here one thought new. If Hansen wants to think new, you might start financing roads without tolls, because that had to be something new. I wonder many times why you wanted to go to Stortinget. They took part in election campaigns in Northern Ireland and fought to get into Stortinget. Was it not just that the decision to build roads could be made in this room, with the money we have in Norway. So we're going to spend 960 million. SEK to pay interest to finance a loan of 860 million. kr. Where's the sense of that? What's even worse is that the Norwegian state borrows money to Germany at 1.8 pst. interest to build roads, while in this country we have to borrow money for 6.5 pst. interest on road construction. It's something that's tearing wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6645	I have to be very brief. Finally, just a little comment to Kenneth Svendsen: The discussion on toll financing could have been taken today too, but it is actually clear to many, many years ago. This is the recognition of local politicians and regional politicians in Narvik and Ofoten and South Troms. They took a bold, but forward-looking choice in the way they prioritised, also putting the airport into the finance pot, and it has given results. We are adopting the Hålogalandsbrua today. Had we chosen another strategy, protested for the whole world, as Kenneth Svendsen and the Progress Party have done, we would not have dealt with this matter today. In five years' time, we had probably discussed the upgrading of the existing road, which would take six–seven years to complete, and with the problems and the lack of gains we have gained in this region. So, fortunately, we didn't choose that way. The second thing I want to mention – and it was Ivar Kristiansen inside his post – is that it has been the increasing transport on Ofotbanen that has triggered this need, i.e. the massively increasing transport northwards. As the Minister for Transport knows, we also have unsolved challenges on Ofotbanen in the four years ahead that Hålogalandsbrua will be built. I'm not going to bring up a debate on Ofotbanen. But it's clear that everything is related to everything, as a former prime minister said, and it's most about the connection between Ofotbanen, the goods transport on Ofotbanen and Hålogalandsbrua. So I sincerely hope – and I am sure you will, with the acting Minister of Transport we have – that you will also find a solution for upgrading the capacity of Ofotbanen in the next four years. It will have a major impact on the ringing effects of the Hålogalandsbrua. Then, in the follow-up to what is now being done by the Railway Agency, namely to investigate double tracks on the Ofot Railway, we will make a decision when that investigation is available. It will, of course, also trigger unpleasant opportunities for North Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6654	I would like to thank you for a good debate. It's always interesting to hear different angles of things. It is also always interesting to listen to the Progress Party that occasionally swings to the great heights in the toll discussion, and which is really alone about its position in the Stortinget. It was angled to by the red-green representative Svendsen, but I remember that no one in the room actually supports the Progress Party in this particular matter. So I want to say that what we're doing now is building up below the logistical node that Narvik already is, and it's going to be strengthened in the future. With the grips that we are now doing on the extension of Narvik port to the Framnes Terminal, there is also a good start on upgrading that part of the railway. Ofotbanen will be the next big grip, which the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen was in. So I would like to remind you that it is now important that the local business community improves to be contractual when it comes to getting the funds that are now put on the table, making sure that you have the possibility of sub-contracting and larger contracts and getting involved in the possibilities that exist, so that you get as much of the money that comes back. The route traffic from Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes, I think now will be strengthened by the grips taken. It is a strong desire from business to improve the route connection to Bodø, and also to Helgeland, and from Evenes to Hammerfest. That's something that we're going to help push forward. But I also think that some of the dynamics will be different when Framneslia is put down. A small line regarding Avinor: I don't understand that Avinor looks at what you choose from solutions, as some problem. Read the Avinor proposal in the establishment proposal for a new national transport plan, and you can see exactly that. In conclusion, I would like to remind you once again that this has been a cooperation project from a to, where there has been much agreement on cross-political issues, raised it locally, regionally, in the counties around and made sure that they have stood together behind the grips that have been done. It's not just individuals, it's not just individual parties – that you've been together and raised in common flocks, that you've succeeded in this in such a short time as you've done. That's what's important, and that's what we have to remember when we're going to work forward towards the national transport plan. We need to keep lifting together. That's when we get there. So continue: Congratulations with the day also to those who are sitting and watching – it is a great day to mark the Halogalandsbrua.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6671	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6685	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6699	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6713	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6727	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6742	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6756	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6770	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6784	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6798	No one has asked for the floor. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6803	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting, or rather to continue voting. The first four things on today's map are past scratches. We vote on case number first. 6, since it was dealt with before case No. 5
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6844	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 3-5, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-5, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish an investment fund aimed at investing in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with special emphasis on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies. Through its activities, the Fund must underpin Norway’s position as an energy nation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make a thorough assessment of the resources that the Ethics Work of the State pension fund abroad will require in the coming years, given very high ambitions for the follow-up to the ethical guidelines, and to inform the size accordingly appropriately.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government of the State budget for 2013 to submit proposals for increased resources for the ethics work of the State pension fund abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6880	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the next evaluation of the State pension fund abroad, to carry out an investigation into alternative ways of organising the fund, including the question of setting up its own monetary policy committee in the Bank of Norway, so that the Governing Council can focus more on the competence of capital management, or a model where the management of the SPU is separated from the Bank of Norway, and whether it will continue to be one or more funds.’ [[SPU]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6916	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate the impact of State pension funds abroad on deforestation in developing countries and to clarify how to improve the situation. The study should examine the impact of SPU’s investments on greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, biodiversity and the human rights of forest inhabitants, and propose appropriate changes to the framework and management practices of the Fund’s ethical guidelines.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Ethics Council to systematically review all SPU’s investments in sectors where serious environmental damage is prevalent, with particular attention being paid to rainforest. The Government is asked to increase the appropriations allocated to the Ethics Council in order to allow for faster handling of cases.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take steps to ensure that the ownership work of the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway is more transparent and transparent, so that progress and quality can be controlled at work.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had set up: Document 8:81 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e6971	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take action outlined by the OECD in its OECD Economic Surveys Report: Norway 2012 to achieve high efficiency in public consumption.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of independent ‘efficiency units’ based on the National Audit Office. Units shall be continuously empowered to revise diet/benefit and other evaluation studies and to make greater and more consistent use of value-for-money analyses, with a more transparent presentation of policy priorities.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, under each department area, to explain the extent to which the efficiency/quality potential has been extracted, to justify why it has not been done so, and to draw up action plans for improved efficiency/quality potential with annual reports to the Stortinget.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7012	During the debate Linda C. Hofstad Helleland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the laws governing boxing are adapted to international rules for amateur boxing and that professional boxing is opened in Norway.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7040	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the establishment of a youth scholarship for young cultural talents of compulsory age in music, dance, drama and visual art.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop a comprehensive strategy for talent development covering the whole process of development from childhood to completion of education.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7075	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right; First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to draw up criteria for state support for all regional centres of competence for rhythmic music in the context of the existing centres of excellence.» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7106	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure equal treatment of regional centres of excellence for rhythmic music in the State budget for 2013.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7126	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size does not recommend rv. 13 Typhoid compound is constructed as proposed in Prop.109 S [[Ryfast]] [[2011-2012]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7156	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks, in consultation with the county municipalities concerned, to investigate the possibility of building the E39 Högkjühlen-Harangen with a width of 12,5 metres before the planned plant start in September 2012.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7193	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to finance the measures of the Tromsøpacket 3 step 1 through the annual government budgets and to incorporate them from 2013 onwards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7212	During the debate, two proposals were put forward by Mr Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The size consents to the implementation of project E6 Hålogalandsbrua and the tailoring of E10 Tjäldal-Lairvik as referred to in Prop. [[Nordland]] [[2011-2012]] 117 S and with State funding.' Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘State funding for the two projects, E6 Hålogalandsbrua and E10 Tjäldal-Lairvik [[Nordland]] Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7254	There are no comments in any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-06-12.ana.ud2618e7266	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
