ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e92	The representative Susanne Bratli, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Steinar Gullvåg from 6 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, the following was adopted unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Vara representative, Heidi Ørnlo, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e112	Heidi Ørnlo is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e163	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 30 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, 5 minutes are proposed to members of the government. The President will inform you that the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has been given five minutes each of the speaking time of the Workers' Party. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e176	On March 12, 2012, we passed five million inhabitants of Norway. In 1975 we passed four million inhabitants. So it took 37 years to go from four to five million inhabitants. According to the Central Statistical Office, we will be able to pass six million inhabitants in 15 years. So the next million people in the North will be in far less than half the time as the previous one. We also know that we travel more than ever. It's relatively cheaper to travel than ever. The number of cars is increasing. This sets completely new requirements for the transport system. If we are to succeed in the future challenge, we need to think again. We must dare to organize ourselves for the future. Many years without renewal cannot continue. Ten years of road construction planning is far too long. The discussion about slowing down the train must become a discussion about how much faster the train is going to be. For decades after decades, we have been underestimating the increase in traffic in our country. We are content to have ambitions to solve the future transport challenges. ‘The activity in the road and rail sectors has never been right over 2010–2013. We keep what we have promised." The words of your councillor, Marit Arnstad. I'm in agreement with the first part. This activity is larger than once. Especially on the road side is the activity larger than ever. That's good. But we are also content to get even better organisation of our road sector. Looking at the railroad, probably had the much larger investment rate if we look back a hundred years in time. But the year we're in, it's going to be entirely decisive for the Norwegian railway. We've got a high-speed statement. We've got the intercity work. We have received the foundation from the NTP trade unions, and we have every opportunity to provide leadership for the modern Norwegian railway system. We clearly need the railways to solve the challenges associated with our biggest cities and freight traffic. The government says that it delivers what it promises – yes, when it applies to the economy, it does. But it doesn't necessarily apply to the activity. It's not enough to put the money on the table. So this government has had over 400 billion. NOK at disposal. But when we look at the plans themselves, we see that they haven't followed up on everything they've promised. An example of this is the 2010–2013 NTP. We look at the major road, rail and fairway projects – 52 projects, all of which were to start in the period 2010–2013 – we see that three out of four years have passed and only half of the projects are in progress. Even with the estimated government has for the launch of new projects in 2013 and the list that was provided in the NTP of all the projects that were to be started before the end of 2013, it will still be so that it is only at the base of 80 pst. of the projects in progress. 22-23 p.m. The project which a promise was to be performed is not running. One of the best examples of this is Oslo-Ski, which we don't know when to finish. According to the government's plan, we would spend 2,500 million. kr for the period 2010–2013. Now we don't know when to finish. So we don't know the end of that project. So enough of a challenge: the plans we're running for today don't solve future challenges. We have a government that is pleased to meet the financial framework for plans that do not solve the future challenges. We also experience a government saying a clear no thanks to renewal. They took over an Avinor who had made a successful renewal, but further renewal of Avinor they said no. The railway works were in the middle of a renewal process at the government change in 2005. The government selected, with a very bad result, to stop that renewal. We see that the State Vegvesen is organized in the same way as it has been for decades after decades. The former government councillor Meltveit Kleppa said she is happy for each new crown. Bombs are going to be a theme here today. We note that the 2013 toll estimate is 9.2 billion. kr. The estimate for national road investment is 6.7 billion. kr, which is much smaller. However, there is a broad political plurality that accepts tolls. I think that it also gives road traffic control powers the possibility of flexibility and space of action, which is positive. The Christian People's Party is just behind the use of tolls, but we think we need to see the health more than we do today. The budget setting being considered today shows in a good way the width of the Norwegian debate on transport. There will be a lot of suggestions, and it is a comprehensive setting. Within the different sectors, policy positions are clearly expressed. The political stances, as I see it, break most when there are fundamental questions about how the transport sector will best meet in the future – it's about organisation and funding. I would like to thank the Committee for its good work this year. It has been an extensive work, and the hearing round, with a total of 53 hearing aids, shows that there is a great deal of commitment across the country. Transport is about people's everyday lives. I would like to comment briefly on a couple of things that are also being treated. That applies to Prop. 23 S for 2012–2013 and Prop. 36 S for 2012–2013 on changes in the state budget for the current year, respectively, for the Ministry of Justice and Defence and for the Ministry of Transport. Prop. 23 S refers to a reduction in the permissions of Naudnett. The Committee supports the Government's proposals, but I would like to refer to the comments made by parties on the matter. When it applies to Prop. 36 S, this deals with a number of issues in the Department of Transport. In particular, I would like to draw up the Committee's comments on the Eiganes tunnel and the double-track Oslo-Ski. I expect the parties to comment on different needs. The Christian People's Party proposes that half a billion more be allocated to the railway. We propose, among other things: the country shall take less dividends from the NSB so that it can provide travellers with a better supply. The development of double tracks in the Austland region, the upgrading of Bergensbanen and the construction of a new Ringerik tunnel must be of high priority. It's a paradox that when NSB's new train routes are introduced, the time of the afternoon train from Oslo to Bergen comes up for 6 hours and 52 minutes – it's almost an hour later than 20 years ago. The express train in the morning usually takes 6 hours and 29 minutes. It took less time to take the train from Bergen to Oslo at the end of the 1970s than it does today – then the NSB spent 6 hours and 45 minutes on the route. In 1992 the train spent 6 hours and 12 minutes, and in the 1990s we thought it was only a matter of time before we were to be under 6 hours. So 20 years later, we're approaching 7 hours. With this I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the proposals on which the Christian People's Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e209	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e214	The Christian People's Party has many concerns related to the Emergency Network. They are concerned about the progress of the project, about delays and budget overruns, to mention someone. But nevertheless, it is the only party that does not join the whole proposal for allocation for 2013. The full deployment of the emergency network across the country is now under way, and according to the progress plan, this work will be completed in 2015. Today, there is nothing to suggest that the progress plan is not feasible. The contract has been signed with Motorola, and it is today approx. 500 Norwegian jobs linked to the project. Does it not worry the representative Hareide that the proposals of the Christian People's Party in this case could mean a breach of contract without a reason, which in turn will result in increased costs – that the full deployment of the Emergency Network will again be postponed, that there will be new uncertainties about the project and that you can lose good Norwegian professional competence associated with the emergency network?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e223	The Christian People's Party is concerned about the net, and it is about the professional qualities and the way the net is experienced today. We see that there is no coverage within the whole central part of the net. Yes, even in night stations, we find that the net does not have good coverage. That is why we have said that we believe that a review is absolutely necessary. The Christian People's Party has been supporting the net. We were in government when the net was raised. But it is clear that with the professional feedback we have now received, there is serious concern on the part of the Christian People's Party. So we're on a proposal, along with the Right, the Left, and the Progress Party, just to address that issue. I also want to refer to what happened in the revised national budget. Then the government did exactly the same thing as the Christian People's Party does now – significant cuts in Naudnet's vows.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e232	On page 92 of the vote, I see the representative Hareide as very indignant when the Progress Party and the Government Parties point out that OPS projects without any state funding appear to imply that the projects must be financed entirely by tolls. It is difficult to understand Hareide's indignation all the time he at any time in this room defends toll financing and speaks hot for it. Can Hareide explain to us where the Christian People's Party is collecting its funding? We also know that Hareide, like the Progress Party, wants to set up a road development company. But where's the money? Is this also to be financed by tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e237	I want to say it is quite right – it is an indignant both the Christian People's Party and the Right we experience on page 92 of the budget position. It is because we experience that the Progress Party joins the Government Party and shows a lack of understanding of the OPS project. One may have OPS project with 100 pst. toll financing. One may also have OPS 50 pst project. toll financing. The OPS project itself does not depend on the amount of toll funding. It's one's own methodology that one can use in a lot of ways, and as we think, like the Directorate of Roads, has helped to create a positive innovation. The toll projects we have had in Norway and the OPS projects we have had in the health sector show that this is not necessarily related to funding – the methodology is what is important for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e242	I would like to thank the committee leader for his cooperation. The Christian People's Party wants to throw us red-green out of government and therefore leads to a kind of value choice that will lead us to cut off help for poor people in other countries, that we get reduced income for the peasants and that in our area we are likely to get faster – not on the train, but on the roads. We don't get to try alcohol, we get increased greenhouse gas emissions and we get poorer speed controls. For me, it looks like the Christian People's Party is going into a kind of marriage with the Progress Party, but they're doing it just like it's going to be forced into marriage because the policy they get on the purchase is a kind of coercive situation for the Christian People's Party. So what does the Christian People's Party think about this coercion they're going to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e249	I want to tell the representative of Langeland that the world doesn't always look like one. I had expected – when SV entered the government, I had believed – that the train would go faster in Norway. But we are waking up today until the news that the train is slowing down and that the plans are that they should go even slower than the large majority of people have suggested. We have seats in different governments before. We have always given priority to the poor of the world. We also see that the Conservative government in the United Kingdom does, and we have experience showing that we're going to give it priority, too, if we get the chance to sit in government. When it applies to our territory – transport – I see that it is an area where we can get a significant renewal. But we need to follow the steps that have been taken over the last few years, with the hallucinations in this area. I think there's going to be a new government that has very good opportunities to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e258	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e262	‘Steel or stone. There are the strict bows of the bridge legs chiseled into the landscape as gateways to peace. Verrazano Narrow Bridge, Bosporus, Rheimbrücke, Sotra and Blacklandspennen, Golden Gate bright as jewelry, flower wreaths, laces thrown through the air: My hand in yours. Come over and see." Can the meaning of transportation be described more beautifully than this extract from Rolf Jacobsen’s poem ‘Broens beauty’? Like bridges, transportation binds the country together; they bind people together, they are symbols of development, of progress, and they are crucial to making use of the whole country. The roads are the lifeblood of our society. The railway is not only the most poetic, but also the most environmentally friendly and will be the most efficient way to travel in the East. I will not claim that the budget for transport is pure poetry, but that it is beautiful reading for everyone who is concerned about transportation, I believe. We see it in the results – we bind the country together. I think Rolf Jacobsen would enjoy the new Halogaland Bridge that begins next year. With a voltage of 1,145 metres, Hålogalandsbrua becomes Norway’s second longest suspension bridge and a landmark north of Narvik. But more importantly, it shortens travel time by 20 minutes in one of the most populous areas in northern Norway. The main road has recently opened. This is an important section along the E39, and the journey time between Inner Northfjord and Sunnmore is shortened by 50 minutes. On 19 September, the Minister for Transport launched the first dynamite ointment for the construction of a new double track between Farriseidet and Porsgrund. The 25-year match is over, and the travel time between Larvik and Porsgrund is shortened by 12 minutes. Under the red-green government, the four-field highway is opened from Svinesund to Minnesund, and we build further towards Hamar. There are four-field motorways entering Porsground for the first time, and the extension of E18 in Westfold to four-field roads has so far led to a reduction in the number of fatalities and heavy injuries of more than 85 pst. Now the rest of Telemark and East-Agder are on their way, and we could all share the joy of the representative, Bård Hoksrud, who enthusiastically spoke to TA on 10 October this year: «We have never received so much money before for transportation. This is great." We're building E6 above the Gudbrand valley, and we're rusting up northwards. The speech of the figures is clear: When Bondevik II crashed – with the right in the head – the government increased the allocation to the road and the path by 6 pst. Since we took over in 2005, the red-green government has increased the allocation of the sector by a total of 64 pst, and we continue to deliver on this year's budget: we are increasing the road budget by almost 10 pst. Therefore, 15 major projects will be completed next year – all with a cost estimate of over 100 million. kr. 20 new road projects are being launched. We increase the operating and maintenance budget by almost 11 pst. and continue the maintenance promise. Over the last few years, we've put new asphalt on more than one third of the national road network. The budget also continues to be invested on the railway system and results in a filling rate of 103,5 pst during the 2010–2013 planning period. in relation to the financial framework of the NTP. Since we took over the government offices and responsibility for the infrastructure in Norway, we have tripled the investment in the railway. Because we have invested, the NSB can now launch a new timetable from 9 December, which will lead to an improved route provision for passengers in the East. We have opened, have under construction or for start-up, close to 1000 km of new highway. When all is done, the number of kilometers of four-field road will be almost doubled compared to when we took over. The fraction of all middle parts of the country is built in our period, and the number of traffic fatalities is reduced by 30 pst. We're now using 14.4 billion. kr more in the year on the road and track than when we took over. We've increased the bet on the road and the path by 64 pst. ; Bondevik II increased with poor 6 pst. Also in the case of the maritime infrastructure, we deliver. Strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport is a key priority of the red-green government. In the current NTP, the annual framework for maritime transport and infrastructure is reinforced by 77 p.m. and the government proposes in the 2013 budget to increase the state net allocation for the follow-up of NTP in the coastal area by 141 million. kr. In other words, we overfill the NTP in this area as well. To next year we can start construction of several berths and fairways earlier than planned, because the Coastal Plant operates well. I hope that everyone who lives along the coast and is dependent on good maritime infrastructure and good preparedness has noticed that the Progress Party is proposing to cut the Coastal Agency budget by a total of 8 million. kr. While the red-greens are concerned with strengthening the availability and safety along the sea, the Progress Party will weaken preparedness. But the red-green parts are not satisfied. We want to take Norway further. We still have major transport challenges. We have now started working on the next NTP, and I am sure that the government will present a national transport plan containing an even more comprehensive and efficient transport policy than today. According to the World Bank’s ‘Doing Business’ analysis, Norway is the world’s sixth best country to operate. The economy is clearly in a position to maintain their position as one of the world's leading players, depending on two factors: continued safe economic governance and continued commitment to transport. We continue the responsible economic policy in the budget and cuts in oil money to ensure Norwegian jobs, but at the same time we have also found room to continue the historic journey promise we have started. And because we're concerned about the whole of politics, we're going to go right to the states, which will lead to the states either having to cut into county roads or in high school. For county municipalities, this is a choice between pests or cholera — either cut into the training of new, necessary labour and skills or cut into maintenance and investment to many of the main economic pathways we have here in the country. It's possible it's an unparliamentary expression, but since I started poetry, I almost want to describe Right-wing transport policy as a 'dict and cursed lie'. The criticism of the government's commitment to trade has been massive from the party, and it has stumbled with accusations that the government lacks enforcement power. That's why, frankly, I was a little disappointed when the Right put forward its alternative budget. It's suggested that we spend 800 million. kr more on the way in Norway. But 800 million. kr does not make any difference when we know that it is used over 50 billion. kr on the road in Norway today. $800 million. kr means 3 km extra with four-field road, or 5 km extra with two- to three-field road, or 8 km extra with two-field road. So, according to the Right, these kilometers represent the difference between the lack of implementation and the lack of implementation. Jan Tore Sanner was also very critical of the toll revenue in the 2013 budget. ‘With the levels that have fallen on the tolls, there is a risk of undermining people’s willingness to pay,’ he said. Therefore, we also expected that the Right would reduce toll revenue in its alternative budget, but none of the so-called ‘extra-settling’ of traffic has gone to reduce these. The criticism of the government's railway effort has also been strong from the Right. Among other things, Ingjerd Schou has recently stated that we are failing the maintenance. Therefore, it was quite surprising to read the Right Alternative Budget – all the time when the government actually continues the same level of operation and maintenance in 2013 and 2012, while the Right Cuts in the Maintenance in 2013. Instead, we record that the Right has a big stake in railway investments – in fact, a total of 15 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. No, the executive power of the Right is free dictatorship. The right has become recognizable: 5 billion. DKK in tax relief and 800 million. NOK to transport is as we know Right. The head of the Committee felt that we lacked innovation in the field of transport policy. I hope the debate today might give us some answers as to whether the opposition has actually managed to get closer to each other, because there is no other area where there is a larger gap than in this area. That just showed the exchange of lines, where the Progress Party pointed out lines on which we supported the Progress Party. There is a large gap between the opposition parties in funding, in the choice of funding solutions, and in the choice of organisation. And as far as the Progress Party is concerned, we see that they are applying for Albania. I'm curious to hear if it's right that we're going to spend half of the state budget on investment in transport, which the Progress Party clearly believes in referring to Albania all the time. The country statistics of the World Economic Forum also show that Norway is well ahead of Albania, and the EU is very concerned about how it will manage the large maintenance costs. But whether this is interesting policy for the Right remains to be seen, and I hope we get an answer to that in this debate. 'Build a bridge,' said Rolf Jacobsen. And we're going to keep doing that. We'll tie Norway together. We're building Norway. Let's take Norway on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e313	It's going to be line change. To the question of what is parliamentary expression, the President would say that especially when a person takes the time to prepare a script and obviously sticks to it, it might be appropriate to find expressions that are not in doubt parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e318	It can't be hard to be happy with a road project for 2 billion. kr where you do not want to skin the drivers with tolls, as this government does mostly in all the other projects that will be launched in 2013. But I want to challenge the representative Bjørnflaten. She says that the national transport plan is met. So it turns out that 20 pst. is not met if the national transport plan adopted in 2009 is complied with. The second is that the representative Bjørnflaten constantly boasts that you are offensive and thinking new. The only thing this new government has been able to do is to adopt some items on the government budget. So they've only fulfilled two of the three projects that are now in the state budget as their own entries, by 60 pst. It shows that this isn't much innovation. And being able to build 15 km of highway for next year, and 1 km of collective field, isn't much to shout for 'hurra-me-hei'. It's not like this is a lot of innovation. So I wonder, when does the innovation from this government come after seven years in the government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e327	First of all, there is no doubt that the red-green majority has overfilled the NTP in the financial framework. Then I notice that the opposition indicates that there are several projects that have not been followed up. It is then right to point out that these are projects that have not been completed. Among other things, the representative Hoksrud the projects on their own items. An important reason why we haven't been able to move forward as we want when it comes to, among other things. Oslo–Ski, and Filefjell, are that there have been design and other types of challenges that have made it impossible for us to move on with it. But there's no one who's ever been close to delivering on transportation like we do, and spending so much money. I think it's a little interesting that when we actually deliver on projects and on funding and put the money on the table, the only thing the opposition has to do is that we don't think new it's quite puzzled – because we deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e334	First of all, I think it is nice that the voters also recognize the Right at the moment, so I support the representative Bjørnflaten in that. Otherwise, I don't think it really impresses so many people, whether voters or anyone else in this room, that you have to use unparliamentary expressions to cover up your lack of politics. But I'm going to focus on one question. There is a note on page 93 in the setting, where the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party say the following: ‘OPS projects without State funding as the Right appears to be setting up mean that the projects must be financed entirely by tolls.’;» Then my question is, where can the representative Bjørnflaten find that we say this in our comments, in our programmes and in our policies? Because that's actually the true opposite that's the case. That's what OPS is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e346	The selectors recognize the right. We're beginning to see that in terms of polls so little, and I think we'll see more of that in the future. It will be interesting to look forward to the choice of how the recognition effect will turn out. So far, it turns out that when people recognize the Right, the polls may start going in the opposite direction to the Right. As far as OPS is concerned, I think it's quite interesting that the Right has been so excited about this comment that we chose to support the Advance Party. I hope that perhaps there will be some clarification between the Progress Party and the Right in the debate today, because it is the two parties who have said that they will cooperate. I really don't understand why the Right spends so much time discussing OPS with us, all the time we actually disagree and don't plan to have a cooperation with the Right. The Right Party and the Advance Party should rather spend time figuring out these things themselves, all the time they've been planning to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e353	The representative Halleraker asked a question: Who is the documentation from the government party and the Progress Party? The representative's Bjørnflate got 1 minute to document exactly where they found this documentation. There was no answer. I would like the representative of the Bjørnface to have another minute to submit that documentation. My question is very simple: Where does the government party have evidence of what appears in the note on page 93, precisely that Right, as it says here, suggests that ‘the projects must be financed entirely by tolls’? I have not seen any evidence that that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e362	I believe that most of the representatives here in this Chamber have experienced that the Right has traveled the country and proposed projects that could be financed by OPS, without having found them again in the budget proposals. I can mention a project in Troms, E8 into Tromsø. The representative Halleraker pointed out not long ago that there was a project that could be included as a OPS project, but I have not found it in the draft budget again. But I want to challenge the opposition again, for the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are constantly trying to present it as if the OPS provides much cheaper expansion than the case. I can then show that the European Investment Bank, which contributed to the financing of two of the three Norwegian OPS projects, has gone through all the OPS projects in which they have participated from 1990 to 2005. They conclude that the average OPS projects is 24 pst. more expensive than traditional projects. I want to challenge the opposition back: can the opposition provide evidence that it is actually cheaper to implement OPS projects than to implement them by traditional extension?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e374	The red-green government has now submitted its seventh transport budget after it took over after the 2005 elections. In nine months, this government has had eight years and all the power to carry out everything it has wanted, by a purely majority in the Stortinget. The government boasts that the framework of the national transport plan has been ‘overfilled’ so far. Yes, it is true that the government has fulfilled the limits, but the so-called overfilling is on the edge of 1.5 pst. in addition to the original envelope in crowns and ears. However, the framework is definitely not met if the cost increases, which have been much higher than those underlying the adoption of the national transport plans in 2005 and 2009 respectively, are included. There are also a number of projects which have not been started under the national transport plan for which progress has been decided. But fulfilling a national transport plan with such low ambitions as the red-green government has laid down is certainly not very much to boast of. In fact, with the current National Transport Plan, 57 km of quadruple motorway will be opened throughout Norway over the four years from 2010 to 2013. In addition, 110 km of road opens with middle parts over the four years from 2010 until 2013. In Sweden, they will open only in 2012. as much four-field road as the red-green government will be able to do over the entire four-year period. In addition, over the four years from 2010 to 2013, we will open approx. 50 km less road with middle parts than Sweden should open only this year. This clearly shows that there is a long way between word and action. It doesn't just help to boast that you're delivering time-trafficking bets, it also has to be experienced this way for traffic-trafficking people. We in the Progress Party also believe that everything has to end, that we spend more money than any other government has done, or that we spend more money than any other Nordic country on the way. If it is true that we spend more money on the road than any other country in the Nordic region, it must be both fluent and unacceptable for the government to know that Sweden has to be built many times more for less money than the red-green government uses in Norway. The fact that Norway spends more money, but gets less for them, also clearly shows that this government is unable to make any suggestions on what needs to be done to ensure that we get the most back for the money we are going to spend on transportation. This clearly emphasizes that it is time to think new, and that the methods we use today are overly mature to be renewed. This is why the Progress Party is proposing a new approach to ensuring that the rate of development of infrastructure projects is increased at a rate we have never seen before in Norway – without causing neither the krone price nor inflation to run smoothly. There is evidence that there are no other money placements that provide better returns than investing some more of our oil revenues in infrastructure, such as railways and roads. We've seen examples that by investing money in the right road projects, we get almost $3.5 left for each crown invested. Examples of road projects that will bring great benefits back to society are the development of E39 Kristiansand-Trondheim, E18 Kristiansand-Oslo-Svenskegrensen and E6 Oslo-Trondheim and beyond. Stone cutters. I am also convinced that there are no tradesmen either in London, Paris or – soon – New York that can give a better return to society than the enormous values that can be created by expanding profitable road and rail projects in Norway. If we're going to get there, we're going to have to put in place new funding solutions. For this reason, the Progress Party proposes the creation of three infrastructure funds of 300 billion, respectively. NOK 100 billion. kr for public transport and rail and 100 brd. kr to the major cities. These funds shall ensure that annual, predictable framework conditions are ensured, inter alia. fill in the two state companies proposed by the Progress Party to operate large-scale infrastructure development in Norway. A company is established and capitalised at a level of 3,4 billion. kr to the railway, and is given the opportunity to both expand and borrow money to speed up the deployment of the intercity triangle Halden-Oslo-Lillehammer-Skien. In addition, the development of Ringeriks and Bergensbanen is at a much faster pace, and with an ambition that the entire intercity triangle will also be completed by 2023 or no later than 2025. The other company being established is a state-owned company responsible for expanding the road network in Norway. The company is to be allocated a total of 11.6 billion. kr in equity and is given the same opportunity to raise loans, while the company is provided with funds each year to enable it to develop a modern national and motorway network in the coming years at a pace which allows Norway to develop a modern, efficient and, in particular, traffic-proof road network linking the parts of the country and the major cities over a period of 15 to 20 years. This is a grip that will ensure the development of roads and railways in Norway in a safe way, but with a force of action that you have not seen since you built the country after the war. This will also guarantee people the freedom to choose the mode of transport that is best for the individual, whether it is road, rail or collective. The party of progress is often accused of not being involved in the collective offer. That's wrong. However, unlike the rest of the established political environment, the Progress Party will not threaten restrictive measures and proposals such as rush time charges, traffic reduction measures, etc. Instead, the Progress Party will make proposals that motivate more people to travel collectively if they have the opportunity to do so. We do that by proposing to increase the reward scheme for public transport by 900 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. This will enhance the provision of collective services in the four largest cities, but also a number of other urban areas will benefit from this scheme. In addition, we propose to introduce deductions for the employer’s paid collective cards from the second half of 2013. This means that the Progress Party strengthens the collective offer in Norway by 2 billion. kr and contributes to a sharp increase in the number of passengers, while at the same time there will be much more departures, for the benefit of all those who wish to use the collective offer – without being pressured there due to restrictive measures. This also means that the Progress Party proposes more in increasing public transport than all the Christian People's Party and the Right propose total transport in the 2013 budget. The Progress Party is pleased that the number of people killed in traffic is falling, but still believes it is very important to have full pressure on measures to reduce the accidents. We're therefore suggesting that it be set by a separate pot of 900 million. to go to road safety measures in addition to what is done by the construction of four-field motorways and middle parts when building new roads. These ear-tags shall be used to remove traffic-hazardous points, to set up middle parties and to campaigns and measures which may help to reduce the accidents and which are specifically targeted at children and young people. The Progress Party believes that there is scope for improving the efficiency of the public sector. The cost of several stages and surveillance in the field of transport has increased sharply under the red-green government. The Coastal Agency is a good example of this: in the 2006 state budget, the Coastal Agency was allocated 841 million. kr for operating costs. In the government’s 2013 draft government budget, this has increased to 1.6 billion. kr. So the allocation has almost doubled. The increase from the 2012 budget to the 2013 budget is 8.8 pst. The progress party proposes a cut of 4.9 pst. Compared to the government's draft budget. This means that the Progress Party proposes a higher allocation for operating costs in the Coastal Plant for 2013 than the government itself proposed for 2012. I therefore believe that it is unthinkable when the government parties claim that this will have a major impact on coastal preparedness and security. Does this mean that the government parties believe that their own budget was irresponsible for all the years from 2006 to 2012? Finally, the government's proposal for a budget for transport clearly shows that we have a government that has been running on for more than seven years in the same old way that you've been doing all year long. The only thing that this government has come to do in order to advance its development in transport projects is that a few projects have got their own entry on the state budget. During the same period, the Progress Party has put forward a number of proposals that would provide both a shorter planning period and a much faster and wider deployment of roads and railways than that of this government. For the Progress Party, it is about expanding roads, public transport and rail to give people the freedom to choose what is best for each one. In addition, we do it in a safe way by establishing companies that have the opportunity to cope with the expansion, as has been done in several other countries with great success, without having had a price or interest rate, and we will do it with a force of action that Norway has never seen before. I am therefore delighted to promote the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter, and in addition to the proposals that we are in favour of, which have not yet been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e416	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e422	For us in the Workers' Party, transportation is not an end in itself, but an instrument. It is an instrument for taking Norway further, an instrument of industrial policy to help create and secure jobs, and a tool for taking the whole country into use and reducing distance-disadvantages, i.e. a district policy instrument. In the financial debate, the representative of the Progress Party, Mr Tybring-Gjedde, was challenged on the impact on business of the proposal of the Progress Party to cut off the balancing mechanism for network rental. In that case, the party representative shall reply, inter alia, to:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘There may be more centralisation and more rational use of resources in Norway.’ My question to the representative Hoksrud is therefore, on their proposals for a budget for transport, is based on this ‘reasonable’ use of the resources, as a result of the investment budget for the Progress Party for the national road of 11.6 billion. NOK 10 billion. kr is used south of Trondheim, while ‘whole’ SEK 1.6 billion. kr shall be used on us who live north of Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e434	Indeed, the policy of the Progress Party is not only important for the districts, it is also important for the central struts. It's about tying up the parts of the country, it's about tying up the big cities, and that's what we have to do first. It's good to see that the representative has come up with that we actually spend 1.6 billion. more than the government of major national road projects also in parts of the country than between major cities. This shows that the Progress Party has a policy that is both in the districts and between the big cities. If the representative Bratli hasn't got it, we're actually proposing to increase the framework of the county councils by 2 billion. kr to renovate a free-fall state road network, and unfortunately – since this government took over – how late it has increased by many, many billions of dollars. So the government doesn't take this into account and proposes puzzles with funds to the county councils to clean it up. I also hope the Council of State can listen: many roads that the states have taken over from the state are in an incredibly poor constitution and should have been rusted up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e439	It's time for a little Albanian quiz. As we know, it was the previous ACP [[m-l]] «Way and we», the last number, have seen a little bit closer to Albania. So there's 3 million inhabitants there, there's 420,000 vehicles, and the main roads are asphalted. Of the rest of the roads, only 39 pst. asphalted – in Norway it is 85 pst. Much more will be killed on the roads in Albania than in Norway, despite the fact that they are fewer. Which state of the Norwegian Republic of the 19 is the step-by-step game I should use [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e448	The number is out, and then the representative Hoksrud will be given the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e451	Thank you so much for that, President! The whole point of Albania is that it was the old regime that wouldn't build roads, a little bit like that with this government, that you're building 15 kilometers of highway. Albania has built 120 km of motorways in less than three years only on the route between Tirana and Pristina, Kosovo. At least it shows that it is a country that builds at a completely different pace. And they're not happy in communists and old ACPs. [[m-l]] I think that the representative of Langeland should travel there and see that Albania has built a motorway network that we can envy them. It's a much smaller country, but they're building on a completely different scale. The journey time from Pristina to Tirana was 8,5–9 hours, now it is 2,5–3 hours. It shows that they've invested at a much higher rate than what you're doing here in the country. This means, then, that in three years' time more than what is clear through Westfold has been built in 16 years. They show a completely different willingness to invest in infrastructure construction. That is what the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e462	It's a lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e467	It has been interesting to follow the railway party Progress Party. If we go back eight years in time, we see that the Progress Party wrote in the budget setting that they were assessing the closure of railway lines, and – later – that the ‘railway is not suitable as an efficient mode of transport’ in a country such as Norway. Go until today, 2012, write the Progress Party in the setting that they have "a more offensive railway bet" than any of the other parties. The Christian People's Party has no objection to the reversal, but my question is: Has there been geological change in Norway in the last eight years, or is it as simple as the Progress Party was making a thunderous mistake? [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e474	What is certain, at least, is that as long as the representative who is now on the pulpit has been sitting on the Stortinget, he has been occupied by the railway. I've been fighting for the Eidanger thoroughfare, where you're going to spend 6 years building up 20 km of double-track railway. I think it's great that Knut Arild Hareide and others in this room are very busy and want to build more railways – have a more offensive railway development – but that means money. The Christian People's Party has 200 million in its State budget proposal. kr extra for investment in railway. The progress party has a total of 3.4 billion. kr in its company, which can be given up by loan, to ensure that the intercity triangle is developed according to what the Railway Agency has said – in the most effective way and between 12 and 13 years. It wants the Progress Party to stand behind. I just want Hareide to come along, and that he wants to join us and find the money, so that, when we get into government in 2013, we can make sure that it is built out of railway at a much more offensive pace than what this government is doing, and that we get trains at a speed of 200 – maybe up to 250 – km/h.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e486	Norway is one of the world’s most expensive countries to operate in. At the same time, we see a lack of infrastructure on the road and on the road, which means that the cost of driving from Norway is constantly increasing, because one is in line, driving slowly on bad roads or being delayed due to old rail signalling systems. Of course, tolls and ferry costs are also a negative element of competition, which we in the Right believe must be compensated by smarter solutions and better framework conditions in general. Right will erect Norwegian roads to improve our competitiveness, and we will build safer roads. This is why we are significantly increasing the appropriations for road transport — and for road safety measures in particular. We follow-up on the Right Transport Plan 2010–2019 and provide significantly more than the government's proposals. I have recorded that the Minister of Transport – and the Workers' Party's spokeswoman now – has described our addition of 1.3 billion. kr as the puzzle, of which 1 billion. kr goes to traffic safety. I have two comments to make. First, if it's so puzzling and small, there shouldn't be any problem supporting the proposal. Secondly, there's almost twice as much as the government adds to traffic safety. And that would probably delight many, because the proposal will obviously save lives – with its clear profile against road safety measures. In the right we are concerned with road safety work and in particular where the state as a road keeper has a responsibility. In this context, I would like to refer to the Right Traffic Safety Strategy, which establishes that the threshold for building mid-driving works needs to be lowered. While Sweden has 4,500 km of non-conversation road, Norway only has 500 km. The government plans to build ‘whole’ 19 km in mid-2013. It's not much to brag about. Our draft budget, where we're adding 1 billion. kr extra for this purpose, giving room for three times as much mintwork as the government adds up to. Another major challenge in Norwegian transport and road policy is the increasingly visible maturity due to lack of maintenance. In order to overcome this maintenance set-up, the Right also proposes for 2013 the creation of a maintenance fund of 50 billion. kr. The return from this fund will go directly to the necessary maintenance and will take in the large maintenance seat run that has built up on the road and rail. That would give 2.5 billion. kr extra both in 2013 and in previous years – for this we have had in our budgets for several years. In 2011 there were fewer trains on the way – there were more settings and more delay hours than five years earlier – while the real increase in appropriations has been a total of 68 pst. This shows that rail challenges are much more fundamental than just the level of appropriations. The right believes that it is high time to modernise the Railway Agency. We will therefore reorganise and establish two state companies, one of which is responsible for managing the development and operation of railway infrastructure. That company shall also acquire the ownership and income of commercial activities. The other company must carry out the development and maintenance of railway infrastructure in a competitive market. The right will also provide for the closure of the approximate train monopoly of the NSB by opening up more lines, in line with the policy now being drawn up in Europe. We are convinced that this is the only way to build a modern, forward-looking and knowledgeable railway environment in Norway. As an example, the Gjøvik track was put on the market as a pilot project in 2004, and its experience is very positive. Customers received a better offer and better quality at a lower price – without making employees’ pay and working conditions worse. We also believe that the use of tenders with clear contractual conditions and penalties can be an effective tool for ensuring universal design. From the Right, we would like to stress that security remains a state responsibility and has priority No. 1st@item: inlistbox In our alternative budget, we follow up the Right Collective Vision. We will provide a necessary boost to public transport. The reward scheme for public transport was last introduced by the Right in government, with the aim of stimulating better accessibility, environment and health in urban areas by increasing the number of collective travel. We have also been pressured by both climate agreements to make the reward scheme an active tool. It is a pity, therefore, that this government has imposed a great political blow on the system. The government uses it as an almost coercive means of overcoming local politicians and promoting its own political leaders, such as their own. during the period of time. Therefore, we are pleased that the Right got clarifications that all metropolitan areas are receiving their eligible funds when they can show results in line with the last climate agreement and the prerequisites for the reward scheme. In order to further stimulate interventions, the Right proposes adding 200 million. in addition to the government's proposal for the reward scheme. In addition, we have arranged for the NTP to commit the state to earmark funds for the planning of urban and superbuses. Right-wing believes that if we are to solve the challenge of zero growth in passenger travel by car in major cities, the state must play a more active role and commit itself to 50 pst. of the financing. Current projects for such a scheme may, for example: be the extension of the Urban Railway in Bergen, the Urban Railway in Stavanger, the Kolsåsbanen, the new Oslo Tunnel and the superbus train in Trondheim. We believe that there is a need for a targeted focus on flexibility and the organisation of transitional arrangements between means of transport, so-called seamless transitions, which make it easier, and not least more attractive, to combine different means of transport, so-called intermodal solutions. An important part of this will also be to stimulate the continued development and organisation of bicycles through a separate reward scheme. The long-distance coast of Norway is an important part of our transport system. Moving freight from road to sea is positive both for the environment and for road safety. Unfortunately, recent studies show that developments do not move in the desired direction in sea-based freight transport. Therefore, in the Right, we will launch a new co-action programme to ensure the competitiveness of maritime freight. Safety at sea is an important and priority task for us. In fact, a large part of the coastal preparedness is the Rescue Company. This is partly voluntary work, and the Right recognises the important role of the Rescue Company in the safety of fishermen, freight and passenger ships and, of course, recreational boats. That is why, in our alternative budget, we will provide the rescue company with the resources needed to keep all the lifeguards on standby and possibly also increase capacity. Since the capacity expansion, as they describe it, and after what I understand, can mean a new ship in Sunnhordland, I allow myself to point out that the waters off the Great Sea between Austevoll, Fitjar and Bømlo are a long and challenging stretch with thousands of lobsters and ploughs, with the risk of such waters in bad weather and high seas. The town of Brandasund has a good harbour and is strategically located on this route and will cover the emergency space between Haugesund and Bergen. In the right, we are eager to apply the most modern and effective methods of addressing the challenges we face in the transport sector. We want more efficient planning processes, we want alternative funding mechanisms, we want better profitability calculations, we want modern forms of organisation, we want less bureaucracy, we want more competition, and we want more funding. We are convinced that public cooperation with private actors to solve key societal tasks will provide more, better and safer roads and a more modern railway – faster. For 2013, the Right and Christian People's Party proposes to initiate the following OPS projects: E39 Svegatjørn – Raådal E18 Akershus – Sweden border E18 West corridor railway project Bergen – Arna, Ulrikstunellen [[Oslo-Akershus]] Now the representative of Bjørnflaten was injured to use an unparliamentary expression that was not very comprehensive for our proposal, and to help her a little on the way, I will be told that we set of 200 million. kr to work on these OPS projects, i.e. go against what she was unable to respond to in two attempts. The right budget would provide more security to all road users who every day depend on coming to work, picking up the kindergarten and transporting goods over shorter and longer distances. I'm addressing the suggestions in the right-hand position. In addition, we would like to support the proposal No. 15, 23, 25, and 34.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e550	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposals he referred to, and also announced support for other proposals. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e556	That the Right wants so much more than the government on the railway, has been a mantra in the Right Policy and has been repeated several times in the Hallerakers post. The government lacks executive power, he says. I'm going to admit that I'm a little bit more than the average busy with the railways and have read the Right Alternative budgets carefully over the last few years. The right has no more than one krone for the construction of a new railway, except for this year, with 15 mil. kr to a lift on Holmestrand. It's a good project that I hope will come into place, but frankly. When they pay $10 million. kr for maintenance after first criticising the government for too little use for maintenance, it is not for believers – 5 million. kr plus a total budget of 11.3 billion. I have to take the right seriously and ask the representative Halleraker for a sober answer to the question of whether it really is half the prom more to the railway which is the difference between the efficiency and the lack of implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e565	We have supported the government's commitment to trade in every budget, so that you can criticise it, I think it's quite eye-catching. So when we say that we're not satisfied with the maintenance budget, we've indicated a solution to that by setting aside a 50 billion fund. So $500 million of which is going to be equal to $500 million. kr would be for maintenance on the railway. We've said that a lot of times, so it's nice that it doesn't cancel out. What we primarily criticize the government for in terms of rail is the lack of willingness to modernise and follow up on what the Bondevik government started. This is our main concern in terms of modernisation: to get a more flexible organisation, to give players greater freedom and to use their skills to develop a modern rail network in Norway and to launch competition on the track, so that customers get a better offer. That's what we want, and I think Gorm Kjernli will see that we're doing well in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e572	The right, through a number of opinions, has signalled that they believe that the government is lacking in implementation and that the right will have greater stakes in a number of areas. After what I'm registering, they mean the additions that the right signaled, that you can build either 3 km of extra four-field road or 5 km of extra two- and four-field road. I refer to the last question that the representative of Kernli raised, that we actually cut rail maintenance in the arrangements we have made. Is that what this right here is called a greater bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e579	It's a significantly bigger bet. If the representative Nordås had joined my post and read in the setting, she would see that we are almost doubling the government's efforts on traffic safety. I spent a long time in my post explaining why we are just going for traffic safety. So it's interesting to criticize the Right to support the government on the other parts of the budget. But we're not satisfied with the fact that there's not enough traffic safety, because there's a lot of people who lose their lives every year because the roads are too bad. Then I want to say – I see the clock doesn't go, but I can keep it a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e588	There'll be a stop to it eventually, but you can keep going a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e591	I was too done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e596	If the representative meant to suggest that he had much more answers to give, it will be possible, because there is one line again, and it is from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e599	There must be something crazy in Sweden, because it's crawling with Swedes in Norway. Local authorities pay them to travel from Sweden to get jobs in red-green Norway. And when you go in and look at the railway side, which right before has been busy, and which they're about to renew, it's the renewal that's happened in Sweden, which has led me to stop talking about Sweden as a really offensive nation on the railway. What we see is that there are major delays in Sweden and that privatisation has led to a lot of difficulties in operating and in the whole lack of investment. It is like this in Sweden that things are going bad, and we would like to welcome the Swedes here. But we do not want to welcome the policy they lead here in Sweden, and that is the policy that Right stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e606	I did not understand any questions, but I think it is interesting that the representative Langeland asks questions and asks me to answer for Swedish policy in the Norwegian Parliament. I want to stick to Norwegian conditions, and that was perhaps what the diversion was too. For in Norway we see that in 2011 there were fewer trains on the way, there were more settings and more delays than it was five years ago. That is what the representative of Langeland should be concerned about. That is exactly what is happening in Norway, which is our responsibility. What Langeland should use his energy on is to change this – improve this. We actually think that we can do that, but then we have to take a bigger structural grip, like changing how we manage the railway system and their ability to do a good job for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e613	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e616	SV addresses the proposal for the red-green ones. Then I'm going to tell the representative Halleraker: the point was that you want to introduce the same policy they have in Sweden – he's blue-blue, and he's the one you want to import here – he's going very bad in Sweden, and that's why young people come here to Red-Green Norway to look for work. There's an explanation problem, but you'll get back to what's so good about the policy that doesn't work in Sweden, but that's going to work in Norway when Right gets power. Anne Marit Bjørnfacen has well presented our main profile in this budget debate. There's no problem for us to stand straight and say that there's going to be a lot of traffic here. With this year's budget, NTP has been met once again. When Hareide and Schou were in position, the national transport plan was never met, but was fulfilled by the red-green government. They should learn from us how the policy is to be implemented. It's important. The activity in the road and rail sectors has never been greater than at present. He was minimal when Hareide and Schou put in government. They actually only proposed 1.3 billion. for investments in the railways. Now SV has gotten this up – together with the others – to 6.1 billion. kr in coming year. In this House we have also, in cooperation with our good Minister of Transport, been given budget changes on two important points. The cross-border population in Bodø has long been waiting for a station, which could lead to less traffic, less greenhouse gas emissions and more money being spent by industry. So it's brilliant, they thought, that we've been able to get start-up permissions to the transverse station. We also, in cooperation with the Minister for Transport, have added to Transnova, so that we can make greater efforts to use new tools for, among other things. to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also to reduce urban pollution. As you know, Norway is the best on an electric car in the world – under the red-green government. We will, of course, continue to do so, and we will step up efforts to achieve even better environmental technology solutions for urban areas. In Doha, there are now difficult Kyoto 2 negotiations and, not least, quota trading has seen problems with the Erling Borg NRK documenter, and Norway needs to have a critical relationship with trade. But that is what the United Nations legislation is all about. Of course, we will continue to do so, but we have reason to be critical on the basis of the documentary showing that not everything is as simple in this quota trading system. The climate agreement at Stortinget is very good, as it says that the growth of transport in urban areas should take place collectively. Therefore, this government has strengthened the reward scheme to reduce car traffic. Here we also take steps to allow local authorities to solve the transport growth they receive. What has been our problem is that it has been offered for a while from all parties, except the Progress Party. But they have not benefited from it, except in Trondheim – which has done it in a proper way for a long time. Other urban areas have not been able to take the necessary steps as the party from Right to SV has said that we have to take to get money from the state. It is therefore very gratifying that I can read in Stavanger AFTENblad that the spokespersons in Stavanger, Sola and Sandnes have now agreed to propose a rush time charge and other toll charges that would allow them to receive money, for example. urban railway and urban packages in the Stavanger region and on the North Jären. That's very important, because it could lead to the business life of the North-Jear – which loses hundreds of millions in line – getting out of that queue, so it's possible to make more money for those who need it in my area. When I walk around the terminal at the Gardermo, still away in new, long tunnels etc. with great cafes – 'you name it' – that look very brilliant, I go and think, 'How is it with trains?' How's the train effort compared to what we're betting on on planes? How are we going to do this? Well, because they have a systeim where they can borrow money with government guarantees and build out for 14 billion. kr – and without it being decided here in Parliament, they do. Then there's something wrong when we have to fight with others every year to get money for train investments. Then we need to create a non-discriminatory train system. They're fast now when we're negotiating for a new NTP. When it comes to the way this is to be done on the train side, the bulk of the collapse has been said to be quite clear – all minus the party of progress – that when one is going to build something new – if it can be thought that one will introduce a high-speed network in the future – it must be built in 250 km/h plus, like one does in Westfold. So we are building lightning trains in Norway now, because the bulk of them – all except the Progress Party – have said that we should do that. The building in Westfold is in a way the first step towards the West. When we think about railway development, we must not think that it is the Austland that is going to have solutions. We have to think that the solutions we get in the Austland region will also apply in Trøndelag, Bergen, Hordaland and Stavanger on a future high-speed network. If we just think of Austland, we'll have trouble with the rest of the country. We don't want that, we want to gather the whole country about solutions that work. In 2008, we gained international competence for a discussion between the Railway Agency and Deutsche Bahn/Norsk Bane on traséval along Mjösa. This led to the large-scale majority – the red-green – starting from the meeting that we actually had to use international competence, because one could not answer that the railway system said this was much more expensive, but Deutsche Bahn said it was cheaper. We did not get a proper answer, so this decision came about 250 km/h plus. It's building the country. We're going to reduce air traffic, we're going to reduce traffic accidents, we're going to reduce freight traffic, and we're going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we go ahead with the forward-looking solution that the bulk of the population stands for today. The problem isn't the speed, which we listened to this morning, it's not the speed that's the problem. It's that we don't have the funding capability that the airport has. That's the problem. Then we have to create a model, and it's great that the Workers' Party has decided that one should create a scheme for the financing of trains. We now need to work together on the future, and it needs to be made concrete in the next NTP. We don't have to make this a matter of speed, we have to make this a question of money. The Swedish Government has therefore agreed that we would like 25 billion. SEK per year for trains, 250 billion. 10 years’ duration to Elisabeth Enger and the Railway Agency. This will lead to the developments Norway needs in this area. Some people say it's a lot of money. I want to say yes, that's a lot of money, but every year we spend 200 billion. kr for oil and gas investments in this country. 2,000 B.C.E. 10 years of kr we use for oil and gas investment. And then we won't be able to spend 250 billion. On the train! We have to create a model where we bet on the train. In Switzerland, the train goes by clock, they say, or one can set the clock after the train – it is so precise. The population has adopted a funding model. The people have said they want trains. They have therefore decided to use heavy-duty tolls, to use environmental taxes from the transport of cars, and to use a fund for the construction of railways. That's why Switzerland's probably best in the world on trains. Norway should be there too, but then we have to look at Switzerland, among other things. to find funding models. In Norway there are little people, say it, we fly most in Europe, we have little highways – therefore our train solutions are profitable. The Socialist Left Party chooses future solutions, and we hope that we will join with the government in the new National Transport Plan. And then I see that there's little going on here right now, but it's probably not that unexpected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e653	It's quite correctly observed. The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e660	During the years I have been on the Transport Committee with the representative Hallgeir Langeland, he has done his best to stop road development and reduce – not to say try to stop – air transport. With small and bad roads there are also none of the SV's highly loved tolls. The cycling and use of the apostles' horses is not going far in our days either. Trains are now slower and slower. When the SV at the top of it all goes against our proposal for more money for public transport, I wonder how the Socialist Left will solve the infrastructure problems in the future if their solutions win. I do not want to use the word ‘will’, but can SV’s representative reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e667	Yes, but I can start by telling you, as Hareide was also involved, that in 2008 the Progress Party on the train saw as a collective socialist project that was at risk of private cars. So there's been some progress in the Progress Party in this area, it's joyous. We prioritise – yes – in my party. We do not give priority to motorways in central areas; we give priority to trains in central areas to improve solutions for public transport. When it comes to the districts, we give priority to the districts, we want yellow strips there, and we are also – perhaps astonishing the representative – actually to try to ensure that even more transport goes on the sea by going for the City Tunnel and will try out that solution to get more over at sea. But we're very critical of what's being set up from the West, that's a ferry-free connection, because it's going to ruin maritime traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e674	To the representative of Langeland's history, I can say that the Sem declaration was fulfilled in the field of transportation, and that at that time we had no common NTP. I also understand that the representative Langeland has not been happy – perhaps – to refer to the misery in Sweden. But I can start from Norway and the National Audit Office's study on the development of the renewal of railway infrastructure. There are the main points of the report that fewer trains are on route at the end stations. In 2011, there were more cancellations and delays than five years ago, and central parts of the objective of a good rail service have not been achieved. The journey time on priority sections such as Oslo-Bergen, Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Dramen has been close to 14 years. We hear today that on the Oslo–Bergen route it is much longer. There are a number of other areas that are also not met, as the National Audit Office points out. Can the representative of Langeland, with this description of misery, think again within the railway and like to be on the Right's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e683	If the representative Schou listened to my post, I thought again about funding. It should also do Right and not just go for solutions that lead to banks making more money, as OPS solutions are, but actually create a finance solution that allows us to use community money to build the railway. Then also Right's proposal to cut the property tax and thus take money away from the community is a very poor solution if you want to bet on the train. So we have to think about something new in order to find a model that makes trains a winner in the budget – regardless of the budget as well – so that we get long-term development. What I am registering in Sweden is that they have a blue-blue government, I record that the Swedish youth in Norway is looking for work because they do not get work in their own country, and I also record that I can no longer boast of the Swedes when it comes to train betting. I could do that before, and I'm sorry that the blue-blue government has ruined that possibility for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e690	I thought it was uplifting to the right representative Langeland talking about renewal, and not least what he said about renewing the financing of the railway. I'm sharing the analysis. Avinor has a system that allows them to manage investments in a good way. I also mean that the Road Service and the Road Directorate have been given flexibility because of the tolls, and I'm very much in agreement with the fact that the railway now needs the same possibility to think in the long term and have a greater flexibility. Since we are now in the Advent era, is it so that the representative Langeland can promise Elisabeth Enger, who is also sitting in the Chamber here, that she can now open a door in the Advent calendar that allows for greater flexibility, greater long-termity of funding, when we come to the government's proposal for NTP later this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e697	What I tried to illustrate was that I have SV 100 pst. In the back to work for a new model that can make Elisabeth Enger open hatches in the advent calendar and actually find money there to build trains. That was the starting point of my post. Then I also see that the Christian People's Party is on the path with other possible solutions than those I'm talking about. They should also discuss, because I think if we're going to create a new form of financing for the railway, we should do it together with the most possible, so that we don't risk the model we're creating falling together. If there were to be a Progress Party government, which should not have any toll or other things, the representative would have to wear it out. We have to think in a new way for the train, that was the main point in my post. One cannot have the train discriminated against in Norway, as compared to the representative who mentions airfields, motorways and ports. Yeah, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e706	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e709	We build the country step by step. Good infrastructure is a basic condition for value creation and settlement in our long-term country. If we are to be competitive in a market, the infrastructure must be in place. One of the main objectives of transport policy is to improve accessibility and reduce distance constraints in order to strengthen the competitiveness of business. In practice, this means working for better roads, a more robust and reliable rail network, good maritime infrastructure and a good air route offer across the country. The centre part indicates that the red-green government proposes a total of 35.7 billion. kr for transport purposes in 2013 from the Ministry of Transport’s budget. This is an increase of approx. 3.9 B.C.E. kr. In the coastal area, the government proposes to increase the state net allocation for the follow-up of the national transport plan by 141 million. kr. The 2013 draft budget meets the four-year period of NTP. The centre party is very pleased that the activity in the road and rail sectors has never been higher than from 2010 to 2013 and notes that the red-green majority keeps what they have promised. We're well on track with the target of 100 billion. kr more for the transport sector in 2010–2019. It is also important to point out that the transport system should be for everyone, and we are pleased with the government's efforts to strengthen disabled people's access to all modes of transport. On the road, almost 1000 km of new national road is either open or under construction, or started in 2013. Of these there are 400 km of non-conversation road, and in 2013 a new asphalt road will be built on 950 km of road. A little over 20 major new road projects shall be launched and 15 opened. It's to rejoice over. It's proposed $1,370 million. kr for breed protection. 819 million. kr is for race protection of highways, while 551 million. kr is a State grant for the racial protection of county roads. Thus, the government has complied with the requirement for an average annual racial protection grant of 1 billion. kr per year, drawn up by the National Racial Protection Group. Traffic safety has been a major priority for the red-green government. The Central Party is therefore pleased that the Ministry of Transport in the budget has announced that they will introduce a regulation requiring municipalities and county municipalities to ensure that all school students entitled to kissing have access to seats with seatbelts on the school bus. This Regulation shall be adopted by 1 January 2013 and shall apply from the start of the school in the autumn of 2013. Railway is one of the government’s main priorities in the state budget for 2013. The proposed increase is mainly aimed at continuing large-scale construction projects that will benefit people and businesses. The government proposes approximately 14.4 billion. kr for railway purposes, an increase of close to 15 pst. from last year. The level of filling on the railway area will be 103,5 pst. by the end of 2013. The government has tripled railway investments. It is opened approx. 100 km with a new double track, and significant maintenance is in progress, as we see the results of that we have got in place. Many improvements have been made on the network, but the status of large parts of today’s line network remains unsatisfactory. It is therefore important to continue maintenance and renewal in order to provide a high regularity and punctuality offer for passenger and freight services by train. I'm very happy that 9 million is now being allocated. kr for construction start of the Tverland station on the Nordlandsbanen in 2013. The holding space is important for the expansion of the collective system and for the dampening of car queues in the Bodø area. I can assure the House that it was great joy in the Bodø area when it became known. Of other key investment measures on the network, it is about. 938 million. kr reserved for a better train offer in the eastern part of the country. Train passengers will already notice improvements in train provision from winter 2012 to 2013, but I emphasise that there are challenges to solving all the needs that are long lag behind – many decades of delays in maintenance in the railway sector. We will continue to invest in a number of areas in several places in the country. We're going to expand several terminals, and we're going to bet on new intersections on a number of sections. It's very, very good. Strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport is one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry’s 2013 draft budget. Both strengthening the infrastructure and reducing the level of charges will contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of maritime transport. The Government proposes to increase the state net allocation for the follow-up of the national transport plan by 141 million. kr, in which case the four-year period is fulfilled in respect of the national transport plan. The government proposes to wind up the coast tax, which means a saving of 32.9 million for the industry. kr. Our objective in transport policy is to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system that contributes to growth in development. It is an important measure to achieve the objective of getting more goods across from road to sea and rail. Sea transport has a priority over road traffic. First of all, it is less energy-intensive and it has lower greenhouse gas emissions per tonne transported. This makes maritime transport a more environmentally friendly and cost-effective mode of transport. By facilitating maritime transport, we also reduce local pollution and noise caused by trucks. If we get more of the freight away from the highway, we get fewer accidents, less cows and less wear on this part of the infrastructure. Choosing maritime transport is therefore socio-economically profitable and at the same time cost-effective for business. Although maritime transport is an important and well-functioning part of the Norwegian transport system, it can transport even more goods on the keel, where it is finished salted and finished. It is estimated that 15 million tonnes of goods that are currently hauling trucks can be transferred to the sea and the track, and we will first concentrate on getting hold of this goods. The challenges to achieve this are among other things: time and frequency. In order to bring the goods efficiently from door to door, maritime transport is entirely dependent on good connections to the land transport. In this perspective, the port must be considered as an intermediate station for the goods – an intermediate station which loads the goods as efficiently as possible. It is positive for maritime transport, which is becoming more profitable the larger the volumes, but maritime transport is projected to lose its share in road transport. Therefore, there is a need to take action to ensure environmentally sound and efficient development in the transport sector. It's an important signal that we're going to work on further towards the national transport plan. With this state budget, we are taking great steps towards a safer and better transport system for people throughout the country, and we are fulfilling our promises in the national transport plan. The centre party will continue, and therefore the work on the new transport plan is well under way. There we will show how we will build the country further, both faster and smarter than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e742	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e746	There are two aspects that I think the representative was not in. Number one, what is the Central Party's recipe for upgrading the county road network? It is a comprehensive maintenance kit there, probably more than 40 billion. kr. Is there any more government loan to do the job that the State itself did not do when they were the owner of the roads that have now become the county council's responsibility, or is it more extensive and faster state funding? So number two: The Committee is unanimous in the fact that the express bus routes are an important part of the collective provision in the districts. Why will the Centre not support the proposals of the Progress Party to ask the Government to present a national express bus strategy by the end of next year? The industry itself is concerned that the basis for transporting passengers within the states they cross is weakened, and therefore that the entire express bus system, which has worked so well so well so far, is at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e753	The county councils have taken responsibility for building roads and maintaining roads in the most serious way, and there is a high level of activity in this area. The centre party is very concerned that we will also continue to provide further work on the county road network. It will be an important topic for us as a party in the future to work towards a new national transport plan. Express bus routes are the center part very busy. We have taken action in the State budget to enable county municipalities to apply to the Ministry of Transport for a pilot scheme in order to obtain express bus routes between the counties. I think that's a very good start to get even more coherent collective services across the country, by getting links between parts of the country, between counties, between municipalities, which allows you to travel much more flexibly whether you choose a bus, a combination of a bus and a train, or other forms of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e760	The representative Sjelmo Nordås listed in his post today a number of projects within the road and track that have been done. That's good, but we in the right think it should have been done even more. We have suggested that this can be done using some more modern methods, as our Document 8 proposal today says a little about it. Now it's like we've had former transport ministers. Former Minister of Transport Navarsete said that we should look at more modern ways of doing this, and another form of funding. Former Minister of Transport Meltveit Kleppa said the same thing, and she promised to look at it in the course of the last year. The present and present Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad has expressed the same thing – she has even expressed that we need to build it smarter as well. Now I hope that the representative will vote in favour of our Document 8 proposal today. If not, it must mean that the representatives of the Central Party in this Chamber disagree with what the Council of State has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e769	The center party is very concerned that we are going to build both smarter, more and more holistically in relation to what we are doing today. There's a job that we do in the National Transport Plan -- that's where we put that kind of bet. The representative Myraune mentioned a number of former Ministers for Transport who have pointed to opportunities. We have pointed out opportunities to cut down on planning time. We're very keen on that. The goal is to cut down to half in relation to what is today. You look at how to get more complete development of road sections and sections. It's a job that's done further. Smart solutions, such as: what has been done with Hålogalandsbrua in Northern Ireland is a possible grip. So the Center Party is deliberately working to get more. We're going to come back to how we want to solve the types of things that are listed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e776	When NTP for 2010–2013 was adopted three and a half years ago, the user organisations were very pleased with the efforts we should have on universal design. So we see the fasit after three and a half years. We're in arrears in this area. I also want to say that it's a demanding area, a difficult area. However, in the hearings here, user organisations pointed out that we now need a status report. The Christian People's Party therefore has a proposal to ask the government to submit a status report to the Stortinget on universal design in all transport areas. We feel that we do not know what the status is today, and we think that there is a documentation we need There is no party that has supported the Christian People's Party here. After all, the centre party has just been engaged in universal design. What is the reason why they do not support getting a status report?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e781	As the representative Hareide points out, it is a demanding area, and there are many kinds of things that have to be played together – both the planning of municipalities, the planning of county councils and what is done by government to ensure that we have a good universal design in place. A positive part has been made, but there is still a need to do significantly more both in terms of road and rail construction with station measures and crossings, and in terms of construction. I think it's very clear that we need to come back to that matter in the national transport plan to take further action to strengthen the conditions that enable everyone to participate in society in a good way. But I remind you again that it is a responsibility also for other sectors, other authorities, who also have to play with us, if we are to get to what is necessary to ensure that everyone can participate in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e791	Unfortunately, the left is not represented in the Transport and Communications Committee during this period. I would therefore like to present the alternative budget of the Left, focusing on the areas in which we differ from the government's proposals. The transport sector is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. We are very pleased that the climate agreement states that the current tax advantages for electric cars and hydrogen cars will also apply in the next major period. It is absolutely essential, both for customers and manufacturers, that we have good, stable and, in particular, predictable framework conditions for zero-emission vehicles in Norway. And we know it works. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of the sale of such cars, and we know very well that these are the benefits that we have secured politically, which are the main drivers of this success – in addition to the very good progress of car manufacturers in these technologies. We see that cities and municipalities are now doing well to expand charging infrastructure with parking spaces, but we lack some fast charging structure so that we can use these cars between the big cities south of Norway. So the left hand side is going to be 50 million. in addition to the government's proposal for such a project in Transnova. Hydrogen and biofuels continue with the Left's alternative state budget, and we hope and believe that the government will not kill the hydrogen filling stations in Norway with its proposed state budget. This technology is now in great development, and it is absolutely essential that Norway keep its stations in operation for some years to come, so that we can be clear when we get a technological breakthrough in hydrogen technology. It's a cheap investment in the future. The government's problem when it comes to the railways is that most of the money goes to maintenance and operation, which means that important new projects are being put at risk. The left is particularly concerned with the importance of realizing the intercity triangle with double tracks and frequent departures. Therefore, the Left proposes the creation of a separate project company – InterCity AS – and refinances this company by 3 billion. kr. In addition, we will give this company the opportunity to borrow or issue government bonds. With today's appropriations, it'll take an unexpected long time to realize the intercity project. With the Left's proposals, it can be completed by 2025. In addition, this will release investment funds from the State budget to enable us to realise projects that are also faster than the government's proposals. The left has realised that a project like InterCity, with a cost estimate of 130 billion. kr, is not in a position to be financed from the annual appropriations of the State budget. It is probably not appropriate either. A project organisation will be able to use money when needed and use resources in a far more appropriate way than the current funding model. In addition, intercity development offers will be so large that they will also attract foreign entrepreneurs to Norway, which will result in increased competition, less pressure on the economy and perhaps lower costs. It worries the Left that according to the Evening Post today, the Railway Agency and the Government propose a maximum speed of 200 km/h for intercity trains in order to save 10 billion. kr. The left considers that it is going backwards into the future, as intercity may be the start of a future high-speed network in Norway, and believes it still needs to be built for speeds up to 250 km/h. Other railway projects are also important for the Left. We are therefore proposing increased appropriations for the railway by 550 million. DKK, of which 100 million. kr is set aside for increased effort on operations and maintenance in the Oslo area and an additional 150 million. kr for double tracks Arna-Bergen and Vossabanen. It is necessary for the State to take more responsibility for public transport. Therefore, the Left proposes to increase transfers over the reward scheme by 200 million. kr. The left also proposes a new entry of 150 million. kr for the planning, investment and operation of public transport in the major cities – urban packages. It is essential that the country contributes financially to raising major projects in Norwegian cities, enabling cities to meet traffic challenges in an environmentally friendly way. These means may, for example: used in the construction of urban railways, such as the city railway on the north Jären, Kolsåsbanen, new Fornebubanen and path to Ahus. Finally, I would like to mention that the Left also increases the appropriations for oil protection, we strengthen the Rescue Company, we set up our own reward scheme for bicycles and we remove the benefit tax on paid cards for public transport. Traffic is one of the areas requiring renewal, especially in terms of speed of implementation and the environment. The Left's proposal for a budget for transport is such a renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e817	Better road and rail infrastructure is central to the government’s efforts to bring the whole country into use and to strengthen the long-term value creation. It is now granted 14.4 billion. kr more to the road and track than when the red-green government took over. In 2013, a new asphalt cover of 950 km of national road is to be added. Over 20 major road projects shall be initiated and 15 opened. The government has tripled railway investments. This means, among other things: that the number of kilometres of double tracks will increase by more than 40 pst. from when we took over. With the 2013 draft budget, the government has complied with the financial framework of the National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2013 – for both the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency. But the government has higher ambitions. Much needs to be done in the future. It will also come back to the government in the national transport plan for 2014-2023. Road purposes, overall, have 100 pst. follow-up. But item 23 Operation and maintenance has an overfill of 108 pst., and item 30 Rijksvejsvejsvejsvejst has a filling rate of 95 pst. It has been absolutely necessary to prioritize operations and maintenance during this period in order to meet the high maintenance needs, price increases for the operating contracts and operational and maintenance tasks related to accessibility and road safety, including winter maintenance. The draft budget sets out that all national road projects prioritised in the 2010–2013 Roadmap of the State and for which there was a need for plan clearance when the budget was submitted could start up in 2013. I noticed that the representative Hareide said that only 80 pst. projects can be started up. I would like to stress that the projects that cannot be started are projects that were not planned or where there was no plan clearance in the form of a municipal or regulatory plan at the time the budget was submitted. With regard to other investments, I would like to mention race protection on the national road network in particular. The proposal at item 31 Racial protection is 819 million. kr. Compared to the 2012 budget, this is an increase of 282 million. kr, or about 53 pst. This gives an overall follow-up rate during the planning period in the national transport plan of 108 pst. It has also been absolutely necessary, and it will be necessary in the future to ensure rational plant operation for projects under way and adopted in the field of racial protection. It is particularly important that road safety work has produced results in recent years. In 2011, 168 people died in road traffic accidents. It's 168 too many, but at the same time it's a lower number than any year before. We actually have to go back to 1953 to find such low numbers related to deaths in Norwegian road traffic. The preliminary accident figures so far in 2012 show that this trend persists. In other words, long-term and targeted road safety work appears to produce results. There has been a lot of positive progress in the field of transport in recent years, but of course there is a long way to go. I am concerned that we will get more money back, and that the transport system must be viewed as a whole and modernised. For those using the railway, modernisation means the use of new trains with good comfort, which are punctual and often running. NSB has already ordered 50 new train sets. Some are in traffic, and the rest will be put into circulation as they are delivered from the supplier. In fact, in 2013 and 2014, a train will be delivered every three weeks to the NSB. In the proposal on the new ageing of the 2013 budget, which is also being discussed today, the government proposes to order an additional 14 new train sets. I must also be allowed to mention that the Committee has commented on the plans for the closure of the Hallenskog station, which is then a question related to the introduction of the new base route model introduced from next week. I received a letter earlier this week from the NSB and the Railway Station, stating that it would not be possible to combine the maintenance of the station with the implementation of a new base route model. The Committee's comments also take that reservation into account, and I have to inform you that it is difficult to follow up the Committee's comments on this point. The modernisation of the railway also means the renewal of the railway infrastructure. No matter how the railway sector is organised and financed, it will depend on government budget appropriations in the years to come. The Government has implemented a significant commitment to the renewal of the railway infrastructure during the 2010–2013 planning period. I see that this is mentioned and that one was disappointed that there were no higher railway investments. Let me then mention that just the increase in railway investments of the year total 1.4 billion. kr is larger than the whole railway investment last Left and right in government. The government proposes that next year, $6.1 billion be allocated. kr, and the appropriations were for comparison in 2005 at SEK 1.3 billion. kr. The large increase in 2013 is absolutely necessary to keep progressing on major projects and also to launch three new projects. The main projects include the development of double-track parallels on the Vestfoldbahnen and Dovrebanen, which will be part of the intercity development of these two routes. The main railway project, which covers the dual-track development between Oslo and Ski on Østfoldbanen, is under planning and the works are planned to be ready for construction start in 2014. I have noticed that several speakers are disappointed that that project cannot be started before, but this is the case once that a project cannot be started until it is planned. According to the plan, it is now ready for plant start in 2014 and it will be completed in 2019. This will be the largest and most important project in the inner part of the intercity development on the Eastfold Railway and in the inner intercity development as such. The Government is also concerned with upgrading and increasing the capacity of other routes outside the Oslo area. In 2013 it is therefore set up to start work on new tunnels through Ulriken on Bergensbanen, and also to build double tracks with new bridges over Stjørdalselva between Hell and Værnes on Trønderbanen. Transport infrastructure is vulnerable. It is vulnerable to both extreme weather, race, telecommunications breach and terror. Therefore, in the context of the next year’s allocation of transport research, it is a priority to co-finance a new programme on social security and preparedness to develop cross-sectoral knowledge, inter alia. in the light of 22 July. The climate agreement, adopted at Stortinget this spring, gave a broad consensus that the growth of passenger transport in large cities should be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. The increase in the 2013 allocation to the reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in urban areas is in line with the climate agreement. The reward scheme for better public transport proposes 673 million. kr next year. There is almost a timing of the scheme from it started in 2004. Cities like Bergen, Trondheim and Kristiansand are heavy inside the system today, and I have also invited Oslo to apply for funds from this scheme in 2013. Urban areas themselves largely determine the use of the instrument, but a binding objective is set in agreements between the country and cities, in terms of increasing the collective share, but also in terms of reducing car use. The proposal in Stortinget to strengthen Transnova by 10 million. kr will also contribute to follow-up of the climate agreement. Transnova plays an important role in the government’s objective of reducing total transport greenhouse gas emissions. Let me also mention that the state’s ownership of Post Norway AS is an important sector policy tool to ensure the best possible control of the quality of the postal services and to ensure a good postal service throughout the country. It is important to maintain the Post's obligation to deliver mail on Saturdays, that universal service costs the same throughout the country, and that the Post should have the exclusive right to deliver letters of less than 50 grams. At the same time, of course, the Post must adapt the service provision to demand. The post office has done a great job recently in consolidating the business and also getting it in line with what the Stortinget founded in ours. I am pleased that the government will be joining in an ambitious budget for culture for the next year as well. During the spring, the government will present a new national transport plan, which will allow Storting to discuss transport challenges and opportunities over the next ten years. There will be an important and major debate about resources, but it is not least about seeing the whole of the transport system and the needs of different modes of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e859	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e862	Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad tried in a chronicle in VG 9 November to stamp criticism of the government's transport policy as a myth of Norwegian road construction. I responded to the article in the VG and refuted Arnstad's failed attempts at mystique. Shortly thereafter, the Minister of Transport sends his chronicle to local viewers throughout the country. The interesting thing is that the Minister of Transport had made some changes in his chronicle from it standing under pressure in the VG until it stood under pressure elsewhere in the country. Away was the argument that the government uses as much on the road and the railway as the government takes into account car charges. Does this mean that the government now admits that there is no connection between car charges and transport investments, that railway and county roads have nothing to do with such an account, and that on the contrary, the government is planning to take 55 billion. NOK in car and fuel taxes from the car lists in 2013, while the Swedish Road Service only receives SEK 17.8 billion. kr over the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e868	I think it is important that a government also contributes to stimulating a broad debate on transport policy. This is a theme that captures a lot of people. It is clear that we should both send the word free-to-air and participate in debates both inside and outside this house in order to create both debate and contribute to a better factual basis for the debate on transport. That is why it is absolutely right that I have engaged in that debate. It is my opinion that there are a lot of myths about transportation, and also that the opposition – not least through the representative Hoksrud – helps to maintain some of the myths. I am of the opinion that it is important to get the real figures for what has been done by the government over the last few years, which I also tried to say in my post, both in terms of railway investment, and in terms of road investment. I could of course add even more myths, but I thought it was important to get it out, because the representative Hareide has been out just in those times and said some things around the way. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e875	The President would like to point out that the clock should be clear to government councils as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e878	Governments didn't use a single word on aviation. Whether the government likes it or not, there's a sharp increase in the demand for air transport, and whether the government likes it or not, we have a well-functioning, good model in the Avinor model, introduced by another government with a different political sign than this. Traffic developments at Gardermoen blow up all forecasts, so we're building a new terminal. But there is also a need to put in place a new runway, a third runway – and get it in place faster than you have thought so far. Avinor has now created a new master plan for OSL. Not least for those who use the Gardermoen as an aerodrome, it is important to have a necessary capacity increase, but also for the municipalities around it it is important to have a clarification. What will the Council of State do to clarify and speed up the construction process?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e889	I agree that aviation is an important part of the overall transport system in Norway. I also agree that Avinor is a well-functioning and good organisation on which one must build. The government will provide the Storting with several opportunities during the spring to discuss the further development of aviation and also Avinor’s plans for, among others. aerodrome expansion and further development of own organisation. We come back to the Stortinget both through the National Transport Plan, because aviation is part of the entire transport plan, and also as an owner's message for Avinor, where the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss in full the issues raised by Sortevik, as well as a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e898	We have put together some issues in this debate, and I would like to take a line at the Council of State on the proposal for Document 8 that Right has to deal with today. We have received an answer from the Council of State, where she says that it is “necessary to use new ideas and better solutions” and so on: ‘In the context of the national transport plan, it will be important to facilitate increased competition, efficient production and long-term and predictable financing.’;» This is actually quite promising from this Council of States. She has also spoken in the same direction in the newspapers. Then my question is: what modern methods will this Council of States use? Then we really don't need any new interpretation of the E6 solutions in Helgeland, nor about the three projects that are on their own budget lines, because we know very well about them. What other modern methods will this Council of State adopt?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e910	I think the theme of how one gets more for the resources that one puts into the field of transport becomes important in the future. I've also repeated that in a number of contexts. It should not lead us into a one-sided debate on whether to introduce 10, 15 or 20 OPS projects, which has the disadvantage of tying up large resources on the government budget in the years ahead to future governments. On the other hand, we should look at small and big things, both within the road and within the railway. It is not the public that builds today; it is private entrepreneurs that build for the public. For example: looking at an increased level of foreign entrepreneurs and new and smarter contract strategies to maximise the use of resources are two examples that go in addition to the already good examples that I have given in a number of contexts: the possibility of a rapid and effective development along the Gudbrand valley, and the new ways in which you think about operating and maintaining in Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e917	I want to challenge the Minister of Transport to something the Prime Minister has said. He said in this room: ‘If Norway starts to finance road projects, we have arranged very foolishly. Our problem is not that we have too little money,...» And... "We don't have to buy paid roads, we can give them cash." We know that we have chosen – the Christian People’s Party has been involved – to have an estimate for 2013 when it comes to tolls, up to 9.3 billion. kr, but that is, with respect to reporting, among other things. projects financed by loans. I have a problem understanding the rhetoric of the Prime Minister when he says that we should not finance the road project, because that is exactly what we should do by increasing the toll. I support it, but I have a problem that the Prime Minister does not understand what he is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e932	Yes, tolls are an accepted system. It does not contribute to the borrowing by the State, but it contributes to the raising of loans by the county through the toll companies. The representative of Hareide is quite right in that. That system works well, but the fact that you have to set up some government loan schemes in addition is a bit remarkable, because the system you have today works well – it has political ups and it has local ups and it's flexible enough. In fact, I believe that the debate on alternative financing is more about rail. It may not really be about extra money for the railway either, because I think the railway will be very dependent on the state budget in the years to come. But it's about how to organise the development of the railways, to get shorter travel time on the railways is so dependent on a continuous development. That's what we see for the West Corridor, which goes from Lysaker, which it took ten to eleven years to build, and where one probably had some cost increases just because it was a long extension time and one didn't get any profit until one had completed the continuous expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e939	Left looks at hydrogen as a future-oriented and environmentally friendly source of energy. We point out that significant investments have already been made, among others. in the Oslo and Akershus areas, where both the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County have entered with funds. There are hydrogen buses in this town and in Akershus. Hydrogen filling stations have been created on Rosenholm and Kjeller, and a lot of good work has been done to make this energy source more accessible in our area. However, we are a little concerned about what the government thinks about the work further – how it will support the work of further developing hydrogen as a future energy source, and what governance signals and framework conditions will the government give to the transnova specialist body. Therefore, the question to the Council of State is: What framework conditions and governance signals will the government give to Transnova in order to complement its role in hydrogen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e946	Overall, I think there has been a very positive development in terms of environmentally friendly fuels in the Norwegian transport market and in the Norwegian car park in recent years. It is not just hydrogen; it is also true, as several of the representatives have been involved in the debate so far, also the strong increase in electric cars in Norway. That also applies, I think, some of the larger cities' bets on alternative fuels related to buses and bus services, and that may be a little different. In this context, we can also view gas buses as a possibility in addition to those on clean electricity. A little bit of different solutions have been chosen. The government will support – and continue to support different – alternative fuel solutions related to the fleet. We're also going to support Transnova's operations in this area in the future, but it's clear that Transnova will succeed here, I think they also need to expand the business and get more forces, preferably from the private sector, that can help support a long-term, profitable development in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e953	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e957	I am the case rapporteur for one of the other matters that we are dealing with today's Civil Service Budget, namely the representative proposal from the representatives of the public authorities Øyvind Halleraker, Injerd Schou, Lars Myraune, Bjørn Lødemel and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on the use of more modern methods in road and rail development, Document 8:5 S for 2012–2013. Since this draft representative is solely about using public-private cooperation, OPS, as a solution in the transport sector, it is therefore natural that we deal with it together with the budget, as this is also part of the issues addressed in the budget statement of the Committee on Transport. It is enough that the comments we find in the setting in this case are also recycled in the budget position, or vice versa. OPS as a model in the field of transport is simply about the conclusion of a contract with a private operator for the construction of a road section, while also agreeing that the same operator shall maintain the same road for a certain number of years afterwards. This is financed by the borrowing of the private operator and the repayment by the State to the private operator over the period for which the contract is concluded. The Committee shares the view that this is a good or a bad proposal. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, are behind the vote, calling on the government to implement public-private cooperation as a solution for appropriate road and rail infrastructure projects, and to present a plan for this in the context of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. I guess these parties themselves argue best for their proposal, and I would therefore like to concentrate on arguing why in the red-green parties we do not think this is a good proposal. At the same time, I address our proposal that is also in the same setting. When it comes to promoting representative proposals with the title of using more modern methods in the transport sector, I have to say that it was exactly what we expected, that there were proposals for new and more modern methods. When this proposal from the Right ends up proposing OPS, the question is: What is new and what is modern about it? And the answer is simple: it's not new, it's old-fashioned. It's not modern, it's on the contrary immature! Right-wing equivalents in Europe have inserted this and left OPS as a method as far as possible. In several countries, even private operators have been bought out of their contracts. The idea that those building a road section should also maintain the same road section over a certain period of time is not necessarily a bad idea. It can lead to innovation and to the choice of some solutions on the part of the contractor. Therefore, we do not disagree that this model can sometimes be used as a contract strategy. We think it makes sense that the State Road Service has this as one of its tools when they put out contracts for tenders. That is also the reason why this is being tested in the Helgelands package. Our main objection is primarily about the form of funding contained in the OPS model, that it so much binds up future budgets and action spaces. Private financing of the country's investments makes projects more expensive. It is also a concern that private individuals should take the risk on behalf of the State. We've seen examples of this going wrong, and we don't think this is a good policy. In the last few years, the right has proposed that almost all new major road projects be built using OPS. In its alternative transport plan and in its budgets, this has also been the general rule. In their thinking, there are many, many billions of dollars to be financed by private actors, who also have to untie future road budgets when the OPS contracts are due to be repaid. At some point, even in the Right World, it has to be that with their policies, the entire budget for transport will go to pay on the OPS contracts. In 2009, the Ministry of Transport calculated that with Higher-Right OPS projects they would have tied up the entire road budget in instalments of 2023 or 2024, and the commitments would be so large that there is simply no money left to build new roads. This binds up all the possibilities in the budgets and gives no room for action if the economic realities are to change for us here in Norway as well. The Transport Committee has been travelling, inter alia: to Portugal, how precisely this has been the challenge of the large commitments through OPS contracts when, because of the financial crisis, it is actually necessary to tighten up. It's probably a provocative idea that we should quickly realize many new projects, but in the Right World, these are projects that are funded by drawing the credit card – and not the country's credit card, no then, it's someone else's credit card that needs to be drawn. How the TV3s Luxury Case would have looked at financing own investments and own consumption using other people's credit cards, we can only imagine. We all agree that it takes too long to build new roads and railways. The planning time is too long, and there is too little predictable funding. That's what we have to deal with when we're going to have a new national transport plan. For us in the Workers' Party, these are important issues in this work. It's for us to think new, and it's for us to think modern.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e983	The representative Susanne Bratli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e986	Good transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for a well-functioning economy in which people, goods and services can quickly be moved where the greatest need exists. Good transport solutions are particularly important for Norway — a sparsely populated nation with large distances. Transport investment generates economic growth and employment, and it is not realistic to reduce transport demand while maintaining the current level of prosperity. Investment in the way is very profitable. At a road conference in May this year, the director of Cambrige Systematics International, Adnan Rahman, said that a large and total investment in the main road system between Oslo and Bergen, Oslo-Kristiansand-Stavanger and Oslo-Trondheim will give $3.5 again for each krona invested. You think old-fashioned, conservative and out of date, said Rahman about the Norwegian way of financing and building roads. This is what the Progress Party has been thinking for a long time. This is why we presented an alternative to the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019, with a substantial investment in Norwegian infrastructure — especially in the road sector. We also presented proposals for a binding investment framework up to 2034 – i.e. a 25-year perspective, a 25-year plan – of 800 billion. kr in addition to the government’s proposal for the current NTP. Everything was referred to as irresponsible. Speaking of which, the evening post on 4 December of this year, with enthusiasm, announced the construction of new 900 billion oil installations. kr from 2010 to 2019, almost as much as an annual government budget. Most people cheer for it, no one talks about it threatening Norwegian economy. Such modernisation of the road network proposed by the Progress Party should have been fully implemented by Norway. Instead, Norway and transport users have to deal with a government budget for 2013 where the follow-up of NTP on large national road investments after four years is about. 77 p.m., and where the 1962 Motor Road Plan of the Workers' Party is still not implemented. In our alternative proposal for the 2013 state budget, the Progress Party follows its own national transport plan. It's important to stress that the increase in appropriations that we have is 3.8 billion. kr under the framework area 17, does not show the total bet of the Advance Party because we set of 15 billion. kr in funds for road and rail investment in Framework Area 0 through State transfer of equity to State enterprises and 500 billion. to the fund. And – for the sake of order – the SSB has modelled the effects of the Progress Party's alternative state budget. The arrangements of the Progress Party shall in all respects be economically sound, economically responsible and economically credible. I remember that the final aging of the state budget for 2012, i.e. the current year, which we have recently received, shows that the state's revenue is 39 billion. kr higher, and that the total profit is 48 bn. kr more than was thought to be the case last autumn in the treatment of the State budget for 2012. The government-defined line of responsibility was wrong and clearly illustrates the economic space within a responsible financial framework. Norway has enough money to invest more in the way and more in the railways, and our economy can take it. From the Progress Party, a number of majority proposals from the Transport Committee are being promoted together with the Right and Christian People's Party. It is mainly system proposals – proposals that will modernise an old-fashioned, conservative and out-of-date system and legislation. The sad thing is that the government parties, by a majority in the Grand Chamber, will vote against all these proposals. Red-green reception for system changes and system improvements is red short and red light – not because it is soon Christmas, but because you are rejecting both the need and proposals for renewal and improvement from the opposition and are unwilling to renew and improve yourself. It is a pity that the government parties, with a Central Party Minister of Transport, among others. rejects the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and implement concrete measures for the good path for the national road and the county road, respectively, in the form of minimum standards.’ And... ‘The government is asking that satisfaction with national and county roads be measured regularly among users.’ And... ‘The government is asked to identify the needs and explore the possibilities for an extended opening time for the relevant national road sections.’ I am pleased that the Right, along with the Progress Party, is promoting proposal No. 4, a case of reversal of the administrative reform in the field of transport, bringing back to the State the 17 000 km by other national road now imposed on county municipalities. I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party, together with the Advance Party, is behind proposal No. 14 to initiate the development of the Urban Tunnel, based on the option Large Tunnel as soon as possible, and to propose the necessary additional appropriations for the revision of the 2013 national budget. As usual, the Progress Party also has a number of system proposals that we are currently dealing with alone, but the other parties are probably coming after, also in these fields. I refer in particular to proposal No. 19) asking for annual toll payment and use schedules to be drawn up on all types of roads as long as toll financing is provided for the construction and operation of infrastructure. We want short and better control, control and information about the use of tolls than what we have today. In proposal No 21 calls for the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the largest cities to be coordinated with the Railway Agency, and for such development to be part of the development of a traffic hub where several modes of transport are linked. As an example of this proposal, in Bergen it is built late-track in stages without en route evaluation, and in Stavanger there is a hard debate about whether to choose a bus or a tram. In our proposal No. 23 we ask for the transfer of responsibility for public transport from the respective county municipalities to the big cities of Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. There I am pleased to note from the Right in the Chamber that they will now support this proposal. Proposals XLVII are also included in the Committee's position, calling for a separate key message on the strategy and measures relating to efficient maritime transport and port structure. We see from fresh news reports that it goes wrong to get the transport of goods from land to sea. This is the government's eighth state budget and its eighth transport budget. I hope that's the last one. After more than seven years of red-green governance, there is no renewal and little change in transport policy. There are two exceptions: Project with its own records on the State budget. This is a bad attempt at project financing. Appropriations in kronor have increased. It's correct and important – we haven't claimed anything else either. The government must have boasted of the increase in crowns. But it is a great and decisive «but»: the need is enormous. The need for investment in new roads, investment in modern railways, maintenance on highways, county roads and on the railway network is enormous. The government is not in the vicinity of – not near – meeting the need for investment, upgrade and creation in a reasonable time perspective. There's no need for money. Never has any government been close to having the financial framework that this government has had. In fact, the rule of action aimed at ensuring investment of oil money for infrastructure, research and business framework conditions has not been used. During the ten years that lie in today’s NTP 2010–2019, there will be more than 1600 billion available within the policy of action. according to this government itself. Just under 100 billion. of which kr of these are used for infrastructure. The government should focus on that. This means that it far from fulfilling the intention of the rule of action that it itself introduced and defended. The Minister of Transport has recently also boasted that the government is spending more on road investment than the previous government. The government has spent 27 billion. kr more on road investment in eight years than the Bondevik Government provided. But in the same period, this government has invested 3,000 billion. kr abroad. Where does one get the most for the money? The party of progress is not in doubt. We believe that the returns are high, actually as high as the leader of Cambridge leads in the field. Therefore, we will invest more of the money on modern, safe and environmentally friendly roads and railways in Norway. A new government with very good party policy, including in the transport sector, is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1052	Before I start the post, I need to make a visit to the State Council, Arnstad, who said that she wanted more for the money both in her post and in the line change. I think most people can agree on that very much. Then I will draw attention to the Riksrevision report on the state and supervision of Norwegian railways, where 70 pst. investment projects have been initiated too late and have become more expensive than estimated. Furthermore, in response to the representative of Halleraker, the Council of State said that it is better to focus on them than on 10 to 15 OPS proposals – and there were many good examples of improvements made by the Council of State. It would agree with one if you were to break what has been the tradition of this government. I am also aware that the Centre Party has expressed its positive opinion on new and other forms of funding such as public–private cooperation. In addition, I think the Center Party can think of positive things about getting to expansion companies. It remains to be seen whether the Council of State can also make an impact on the central party's policy of rethinking the government. So far we haven't seen traces of this opportunity to get through. So to my post about that part of the state budget that concerns transportation. The right will have a modern, reliable and robust rail with good competitiveness towards other modes of transport. It is important that the railway operates efficiently with productivity measurements and documentation of both maintenance and investment. The right notes that the government does not wish to carry out the necessary modernisation of the railway works. I believe that the whole railway-Norway had a lot to gain by restructuring the railway works in the same way, or at least by a model, which is à la Avinor. The report of the National Audit Office on the state and governance of the railway sector is discouraging. Fewer trains are on route at the end station. In 2011 there were more cancellations and delays than five years ago. One can hardly call it progress. Central parts of the good rail service objective have not been reached. The journey time on priority routes such as Oslo-Bergen, Oslo-Halden and Oslo-Dramen has been close to 14 years, and it has even increased. The appropriations have mainly been as foreseen in the 2006-2015 national transport plan. Still, 70 pst. investment projects have been launched too late and have become more expensive than estimated. Because I continue to keep to the summary of the Riksrevision report, the Riksrevision therefore says that the Railway Agency does not have a status overview of the implementation of projects, nor does it have evidence of the impact of the actions carried out. As a result, the Ministry of Transport does not receive enough management information. Furthermore, we note that the government's commitment to project financing on its own items has not been successful overall. In the right we noticed that two out of three projects have a filling rate of approx. 60 pst. after four years. It is disappointing that the government is not able to rethink project funding. Lack of innovation from the government in the financing and organisation of the transport sector is the main obstacle to modernising Norwegian road networks and Norwegian railways. We also note that the Government has selected some projects to be listed with its own budget line, including the double-track Oslo-Ski, and that the government parties therefore believe that the project should be ensured a coherent and comprehensive development. It is positive that this makes the financing needs of the projects in question visible. But a separate project item is not sufficient to ensure predictability of the project. There are completely different structural approaches that need to be taken. For the time being, the appropriations entered for the 2013 budget are only planned — still — after many years of planning, and the gap is still waiting. The operation of public airports in Norway is currently a success and the government should be able to see the portability of establishing railway development companies. The current situation in the railway sector underlines with all clarity the need for efficient railway management capable of making good use of budgeted resources and ensuring that it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1075	Now on Tuesday I attended the Shipowner's Association's seminar in the Short Sea Group. There was a great deal of success in hearing about the government's commitment to maritime transport from shipping companies and other operators in the industry. We note the same thing a month ago when the Committee on Transport had its budget increases as an important basis for bringing forward the budgetary position that we are debating today. Both employee organisations and various professional organisations were consistently in favour of the rights and initiatives in the coastal area that come under the 2013 budget. It's just supposed to be missing. The government is proposing to increase the government's net allowable value for NTP follow-up on the coast by 141 million. kr. Coastal charges have been reduced by a total of 125 million in each of the last financial years. kr. From the end of the year, it will be completely liquidated, and from 2013 it will cover 100 pst. the costs of fairway operations, operation and maintenance of fireworks, make and other navigation aids. This effort on maritime infrastructure will obviously strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. The Government is proposing to increase the permissions of navigation installations by over 19 million. kr. The propensity for municipal development of fishing ports will be increased by 21.5 million. kr, and the permissions of the BarentsWatch information system will be increased by 16 million. kr. This budget also has an increase of 9.4 million. to vessel to follow up its renewal plan. Greater planning capacity has long been called for by the actors involved in maritime transport. It is therefore gratifying that the permits for plan and analysis are now being increased by 17 million. kr. NTP for the years 2014 to 2023 is the big thing that we are going to be working on politically during this winter and spring. Then it's great that we're now going to start off with a 25 million prize. kr for commodity stream analysis related to the forthcoming short sea shipping strategy. Policy-making in this field must be based on knowledge and cannot be based solely on decisions and good love. The Progress Party will cut 80 million in its alternative budget proposal. kr in the proposed operating budget for the Coastal Plant. Right will cut by 20 million. kr in the same entry. There would have been serious consequences for maritime safety, the environment and coastal management if these budget cuts had been agreed. Before a cut, you have to keep the items financed by your fees, i.e. before they are cut. 700 million. kr for the loose service and 60 mill. kr to the traffic centres. Then it says that a pledge of 840 million. kr. A budget cut after the Progress Party's proposal would in fact be 10 p.m. and not on 4,9 p.m., as Bård Hoksrud said in his main post. One of them has to cut, is within the post-operation and maintenance of navigation installations, which are 282 million. kr, prepared for acute contamination, which is 370 million. kr, and which includes the towing gear – or one had to go loose on the 213 million. kr dedicated to transport planning and coastal management. The Progress Party's draft budget is dramatic for the Coastal Works' activities, and the Right's proposal will be a clear deterioration in the government's approach. In practice, this will reduce maintenance and increase maintenance delays. The acute pollution preparedness activity will also have to be reduced. Since the largest investments are targeted, this will mean a reduction in exercises and a reduction in the number of additions. Contracts with some of the tugboats will then also have to be terminated, and the Coast Guard Administration will have to be dismantled, with the closure of the investment in transport planning towards the development of the notified short sea shipping strategy. It was probably about here that I started this article, that there is now greater optimism than ever among the actors. Tax cuts are ambitious – important enough – but perhaps even more decisive to be closed down by strengthening maritime transport is just the offensive effort put forward by the government, along with the other actors along the coast. We will not be able to cut out the measures that will create a future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1103	An important backbone for this debate is that Norway is doing well in many areas. More jobs have been created. Norwegian export-oriented industry has been relatively successful through the financial crisis, but is also vulnerable when several of our main export markets are struggling as a result of an economic crisis. Therefore, the starting point for this budgetary debate must be that we should conduct a responsible and secure economic policy that ensures Norwegian jobs and contributes to further value creation. Then we must stick to the rule of action. Thus, along the coast, it is not cheaper south-tours that are discussed when the krone price rises, then it is the consequences for local jobs and for local business. So here, then, the rule of action is not a foreign word. I'm so lucky I get to participate in three budget debates. When you are a sectoral politician, it is tempting one day – such as. Today — to say that transport is the most important thing; it needs to be prioritised. The next day, there is research — there is the future, it is the most important of all — or business policy. The government strengthens all of these areas, but we do it within a responsible framework. This is how we ensure Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises. Seaborne transport accounts for about 45 pst. of domestic transport and above 90 pst. by external trade. Nevertheless, it has the potential to carry even more goods. The forecasts for the future show that the increase in revenue, population and international trade will generate significant growth in transport by 2040. If we're going to be able to take these quantities of goods away, we're going to have to make sure that a greater part of the freight traffic goes on the sea. The seaway lies there, finished salted and finished incubated. It allows the transport of goods with low emissions, small local pollution, wear and noise. It is a crucial part of the solution to future transport challenges. In order to stimulate more maritime transport, the government will improve the framework conditions for maritime transport, invest in maritime infrastructure and ensure safety and portability in the waters. With the 2013 budget, we are completely removing the coast tax. In total, it represents a reduction of 125 million. kr for the period 2010–2013 – a very important contribution to enhancing the competitiveness of maritime transport. At the same time, other actors, such as ports, municipalities, county councils, shipping companies, freight forwarders and – not least – goods owners, also have important instruments. These also have a responsibility for strengthening maritime transport. This gripped the government earlier this year, when I invited to, and led, a series of meetings where all these actors were represented. The aim has been to arrive at a common short sea shipping strategy. During this series of meetings there were many good suggestions on the table. Recordings point to actions that the State will be responsible for, but there are also many actions that other actors need to address. If everyone does their part, and everyone contributes in their field, I have great faith that it will produce results, and that we can thus strengthen the maritime route as a transport year. In this year's draft budget, we are following up this work by setting aside 25 million. SEK to, among others carrying out a flow analysis of goods. There are measures that many of the actors have called for. The government seized when it presented its first transport plan, NTP 2010–2019, and increased the framework by 100 billion. kr compared to the 2006-2015 transport plan. The annual framework for maritime transport and infrastructure was reinforced by 77 pst in NTP 2010–2019. In the 2013 budget, the Government proposes to increase the State net allocation for the follow-up of NTP in the coastal area by 141 million. NOK 12,250 million. kr. Because we have managed to solve important projects efficiently and well in the coastal area, next year we can start building more berths and fairways earlier than planned. A word that has remained in many debates in this room in the autumn is «implementation». I ask questions about whether the opposition can agree that this at least shows the implementation force in the coastal area. What I can assure you at least is that it means a lot both on Myre in Øksnes and in Austevoll, who has got a clear signal to be able to start their construction projects earlier than they probably dared to hope and believe. The 2013 budget is also a budget for a high level of maritime safety and a strengthened oil protection framework. The Government will increase the allocation for navigation installations by 19.2 million. kr. This is important for safety and navigability at sea. In contrast to the opposition, which says that they will come forward with this proposal in the revised budget, we will therefore put it in the draft budget. The government is also increasing the funding for the development of the BarentsWatch information system by 16 million. kr. Like many others, I have noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party are proposing powerful cuts in the Coastal Works. Let me then remind you that the Coast Guard is a standby seat. If we subtract from the services under the Coastal Plant, which is financed by the user, this means that the cuts are relatively large. It will directly affect oil protection preparedness and the ability to exercise, which is crucial for this preparedness. We've increased oil and gas activity in the north. This leads to increased coastal traffic. If we are to increase maritime transport, we obviously also need to strengthen coastal preparedness. Therefore, in 2012, the government strengthened the oil protection preparedness by 15 million. kr, an increase we propose continued in 2013. Since 2006, the government has been upgrading oil protection equipment. We have implemented a large-scale replacement and upgrade of the equipment in the state depots. Now we are making it possible for municipal preparedness to provide rapid assistance with appropriate equipment during state action. This ensures a rapid response. In recent years, the government has also strengthened its preparedness to pull. The scheme of five vessels continues in 2013. The government has provided a good budget for the coast. The Government fulfils the commitments of the National Transport Plan to strengthen maritime transport and safety and it contributes to a strengthened oil protection preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1152	A common policy objective here in the Chamber is, as was the Council of State, to transfer more goods from land to sea. The government has removed and reduced some of the many excise duties related to maritime transport, and that is good. What is not good is that the government seems to allow the Swedish Coast Guard Agency to put new obstacles in the way of such a development through new regulations that make it difficult for ISPS, i.e. regulated ships, to use Norwegian ports that do not have such security clearance. The Norwegian port structure has hundreds of private port facilities, warehouses, farms and quarries along the coast and is likely to be quite unique in this way. However, trying to make the world's strictest rules for calls through the Coastal Lawyers gives cause for concern and to point out that this does not give effect to implementation, but to obstruction. What will the Council of State do to avoid this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1161	I am at least happy that we agree on the goal, I wonder a little bit more about how to achieve the goals. Hopefully, we'll have time to discuss that, not least when we present our next national transport plan. As regards the revision of port security legislation, the legislation is better adapted to the differences in Norwegian ports and port facilities, while the international port security code is properly implemented. The principle contained in the draft new provisions that only ISPS-approved port facilities can receive ISPS ships are not new, and there is nothing that has been done by the lawyers in the Coastal Works. It is a continuation of requirements in today’s port security regulation, in line with the International Port Security Code, which Norway is actually obliged to implement. In order for a port to receive and operate such vessels, port facilities must implement security measures and receive ISPS approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1168	The rescue company is doing a fantastic job for the people of Norway. There's a lot of volunteer work to do to get the wheels to go around. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the government never grants the amount needed by the rescue company in order to maintain and expand their business. Of the funds collected, as well as what has been allocated to the Rescue Company over the State budget, they have to pay 4 million. kr per year of the mineral oil charge. This is a fee we in the Progress Party believe is unreasonable that the Rescue Company must pay. We have therefore proposed to remove it because we know that a number of vessels in commercial operation, such as. tugs, fishing vessels and passenger boats have already been exempted from the charge. I can't understand why the Rescue Company, as a humanitarian organisation, is not being exempted from this charge on its rescue vessels. Can the Council explain why the Rescue Company still has to pay this fee? Why is the regulation on excise duties not Cape. [[3]] 4-3 § 4-3-1a changed, so that the rescue company is also exempted?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1177	As far as the charging code is concerned, it is below the Minister of Finance. I will take good care of talking about colleagues' field of action. I expect that there will be an opportunity to ask the question to the appropriate Council of State. Having said that, I would like to say that I am very concerned that the rescue company will have good framework conditions. I have an item on my budget with direct allocation to the Rescue Company. During the last year's budget review, there were very many, not least red-green politicians, who were concerned with maintaining the rescue company's activity – avoiding the laying down of boats. I now register from the proposals that lie here, that it should be increased in order to put new capacities into use. There are probably very good reasons for that, but when we evaluate the total preparedness, the Rescue Company is one part of it. I am concerned about continuing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1189	In its submission, the Council of State mentioned a number of things that had been done on fairways and ports in order to make the transport system by sea work. That's good. We are also aware that she has taken the initiative to engage in dialogue with product owners, which is very important in that context. Now I wonder what it's like with the dialogue within the government. One thing that's important in addition to this with traffic controllers is, of course, going into modal transport terminals, as we call it so neatly. It requires these freight transport terminals to be by the sea, by the road and by the railway. The Railway Agency has now provided a setting that places such a terminal in a barrier in the South-Trande layer. What does the Council of State intend to do to establish a dialogue with other actors in the government, so that we can get a comprehensive assessment of this and prevent it from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1198	As far as the sand roof policy is concerned, I think I should leave it to others. There are some local politicians who should definitely go into that discussion. With regard to the dialogue in the government, I can see my colleague right in the eyes and say that it is very good and that we have a very good process. We are working well on the next national transport plan. I can support the representative Myraune in that this interaction is very important, and that interaction is very good. Of course, it's about getting good transitions between the different modes of transport. Because, as I said earlier in this room, there are very few goods starting from one port and ending in another. Several means of transport must be included in the picture. Then it's very important to have exactly these good nodes. We will now review this in an extra detail in the context of the work on the next national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1205	I noticed that the Council of State described our 20 million. kronor’s cut in connection with the Coastal Works as ‘powerful cut’. So it's in a 2.5 billion budget. kr, increased by 130 million. kr. It is enough that there is also a need and an opportunity for efficiency in coastal management. We can help the Councils with measures to this end, including: she may separate the shipping company of the Coastal Works of a separate company. I think we'll see good results of that in several ways. I have another – perhaps small, but important – matter that I would like to ask the Council of State for. The majority are in favour of speeding up plans to repair the lease to Florø, because there is a shipyard there that would like to take up national service activities. The red-green members of the Committee refer to the NTP. I think it will interest the coastal population what the Council of State thinks about that matter. What progress does she see?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1212	In my world, 20 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm I fight for amounts far less than that, I can trust the representative. And to the extent that he can get into government, probably Halleraker will experience that 20 million. kr is actually worth fighting for. I'm going to continue to do that, also in the Coastal Works area. So the representative brings in a new port project here, something inside Florø actually is. It is not included in the national transport plan 2010–2019. That's 20 million. kr are included, both for the planning and implementation of this project, because there is a project that is cost-based at 38 million. kr. It has not been included in the national transport plan, but I want to assess this in conjunction with the other projects, because I have also been described as a good project, and I record that I have several red-green politicians with me in that assessment. It's one of the projects that joins the evaluation. But then I ask so nicely that you do not tick the money that we need to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1219	I agree with the Council of State that one has to fight for 20 million. kr. I thought of that when I saw who was president today. I thought the setting from last year was very important. There was a number in the committee that said that the government had to cooperate with owners of goods, transport companies, shipowners and port organisations in order to get a broad cooperation on getting more cargo over to sea. I want to say that the feedback from shipping is that the dialogue that the government has seen works very well, and that there are great expectations for this. When it comes to the product stream analysis, I have these questions: is it going to be a significant mapping of the potential? In the analysis, do the authorities that need to be in place to increase transport progress? And do we want to reach NTP with that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1228	I record that there are great expectations, and that makes you even more want to meet your expectations, because this is crucial in other transport areas as well. I'm afraid that if we don't succeed in this, it's not enough with four-field road from Svinesund. We need to have substantially more fields available, for the largest port in the case of Norwegian goods transport is actually Gothenburg. Yes, of course, that product flow analysis should look at the potential, and it should look at the balance sheet. Because there's one thing to have loaded one way, it's an advantage to have loaded the other way too, to get good shops. It'll obviously be one of the areas you're looking at. Yes, some of that I hope will definitely be possible to reach the national transport plan. We probably don't have all the answers in the national transport plan, but I suggest that we carry out as many of these measures as possible, and then the product flow analysis and a follow-up of it is one of the first things in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1235	The cord shift is over. The President is also pleased that he can continue to inspire the representative Hareide and hope it will continue for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1240	On 9 December, a change occurs as the Evening Post earlier this week referred to as a ‘travel revolution’. For those of us who come from a party that left the revolution in 1927, I would rather use the term ‘strong modernisation’ of the train offer. A new and better train offer is being introduced for travellers in the East. There will be several departures and spaces for several passengers. In addition, a number of bus departs are adapted to the new train schedules. Many travelers will experience a much improved train offer. Train passengers have not been screened off with journeys. With a new base route model, tens of thousands of commuters in Eastern Europe get a better everyday life, and that's the most important thing. Secondary in this context is that this is possible because the Workers' Party and the Government have granted billions to enable the railway to modernise it. Right will do with the Railway Station as with Avinor. The difference between Avinor and the railway station is that the former has a large income, which the railway station does not have. This is the question of whether the right will have tax-free sales on the train or a significant increase in the driving charge on the tracks. In one place, the Railway Agency must get money to repay the loans that the Right believes they should be able to raise. I could stop mentioning Right with that, but still the Right would say that I had used my entire post to talk about Right. That's why I allow myself to say a little bit more. The government lacks executive power, says Right. It's the government's fault that the Right now has to push its own ambitions for intercity development. It might be rhetorical in the paper, but it doesn't bite anyone who's read the alternative budgets to the right. Not one more krone has been in rail investment in addition to government proposals in recent years, before this year – 15 million. NOK to a lift at the new Holmestrand station. Honor be it – a good project that I hope will be realized, but there won't be much double tracks of it. Next year, we will be working on the construction of double tracks on all three intercity sections in Eastern Europe. There is a lot of work to start up at Oslo–Ski in 2014. In addition, start-up appropriations have been granted for the new Ulriken tunnel in Bergen and possible start-up of Hell–Værnes north of Trondheim. We continue the record high level of operation and maintenance from the current year. That the last year’s focus on maintenance in the railway hub around Oslo has had an effect, we can look at the punctuality of the Drammensbahnen, Norway’s most busy route – from 80 pst. punctuality in 2009 to 90 pst. punctuality during the first six months of this year. That matches the requirement that we make for the NSB. At Asker station, the punctuality was 93 pst. after the first six months of the year – it shows will. And no matter what you say to the right, it also gives more and better rail, and we get the effect that we have increased railway appropriations. I am pleased that the climate agreement concluded that Transnova, the state's own body for more climate-friendly transport, is to be established as a permanent body. A number of projects include: the development of charging stations, electric vehicle speed chargers, operating and hydrogen stations and the development of battery-powered ferries have received support from them for the last four years Transnova has existed as a pilot project. They receive applications too much than they have, and that shows the need. Transnova needs to be strengthened financially in the coming years, and I am pleased that the Workers' Party, in the context of the Committee's budgetary procedure, was able to strengthen Transnova by 10 million. kr in addition to the government's original proposal, to SEK 87,2 million. kr. So I hope that this way we can find room for Transnova to contribute to hydrogen stations in 2013, as they have done. I encourage the Department to invite business and industry to dialogue on how together we can make sure that the stations stay standing until the hydrogen cars are here for full commercial sale. The Transport Budget for next year shows that the Workers' Party and the Government are up to their promises. Airlocks and monopoly money, said the opposition when we presented the current transport plan. The status after four years will be that we overfill our own money promises. But we're not satisfied with that. There are enough challenges to address, for example: is the development of intercity and more goods on track two things we will come back to when we present the new transport plan next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1260	The rescue company is doing an incredibly important job along the whole of the beautiful Norwegian coast, both in terms of sea rescue and in terms of oil protection. This is particularly important in East Agder, where we have many tourists and residents who enjoy the Norwegian archipelago every summer. When the rescue company warns against the government's proposals for the 2013 government budget, this is something we have to take seriously. In fact, the rescue company needs $76 million. in 2013 for proper preparedness across the coast, while the government has only added 56,2 million. kr on the table. This means that where they need to strengthen preparedness, for example: in Florø and Ålesund, they will not have the opportunity to do so. The Progress Party proposes that the Rescue Company should receive the 76 million. kr they have asked for. Instead of saving on marine rescue, government parties could look at the Progress Party’s proposal to cut the red tape in the Coast Guard Agency, where operating costs have actually doubled since 2006. Maritime transport should be given high priority in the forthcoming national transport plan, with a view to bringing more goods onto the keel. NTP work should focus on comprehensive planning, port strategy, short sea shipping, coastal preparedness and charging policies. Increased maritime transport should be the objective, not least because it improves road safety and reduces road traffic. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to go through the entire charging regime and reduce both the number of charges and the amount of charges. Cutting the coast tax is not sufficient, as Norwegian business already has high transport costs. In the 2013 alternative state budget of the Progress Party, we propose a gradual phasing-out of the unloading fee in Norway over a four-year period and cut the 2013 unloading fees by 168 million. kr. With regard to port strategy, the challenge is not that Norway has too few ports, but rather that a slightly lower number of ports of national importance could be given priority. The advance party wants 25 million. kr more than the government for investment in the most important ports, e.g. for dredging, blasting of deeper fairways, etc. The progress party cuts the ransom, but one also has to update the ransom policy in time and technological development. The world is quite different today than it was 50 years ago, and people today have navigation equipment in cars and boats that you didn't even have in large ships in the old days. The Committee's non-socialist majority today promote proposals to reduce the number of unloadings and unloading charges, in particular by extending the system of placards. The Progress Party also supports proposals to remove the country's los monopolise, so that cruise companies who wish to do so can employ experienced and well-adult shipowners. We have to make arrangements so that the losers who want to do so have the opportunity to stay in the workplace longer than today. The 65-year-olds barrier people. There are others here today from the Progress Party who are going to talk about City Ship Tunnel, but the important thing about this project is to get started. The party of progress is very disappointed with the government's handling of the submarine U-864 outside of Fedje. Mercury is, as you know, not healthy, especially when it is 67 tonnes. The debate has gone on cover or uplifting, and it may seem that the government has chosen cover only because this was the cheapest, and not because it was the best solution. The locals are worried. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals for lifting as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to say a few words about oil protection. The BSPC working group for Norway and all countries around the Baltic Sea on maritime Baltic Sea work, in which I was involved, also worked to improve oil protection and to achieve closer cooperation between countries. It's positive. So cooperation is important in this area, and it is important that we have enough oil protection equipment in the oil warheads and on the Coast Guard's own vessels. The progress party has put off 50 million. kr extra for this purpose. It is important to establish cooperation agreements on oil protection with actors moving along the coast, for example: The high-speed route, the rescue company, the fishing fleet and the merchant fleet, and not least WWF, all of which do important work related to the training of volunteers in the field of oil protection preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1277	The setting we are handling today is very important. Not only is it the last in connection with the current NTP, but it's going to show us into the next NTP period and thereby be a precursor to it. The government constantly boasts that it spends more money on infrastructure than any other government. Yes, that's probably true, it spends more money than any government before, but it also has more money than any government before. And if we look at this in relation to the rule of action, that one should use the 4 percent primarily for infrastructure, for research and development, and for tax relief for companies to compete on the world market, it is that under the Bondevik II government, nine out of ten dollars went to this, under the current government there are two out of ten dollars. Moreover, VAT reform has also been introduced, and there will be no more road or rail of the money in the budget that is going to pay VAT. In the case of road investments, the number of kilometres is not increasing the most. The cost of road construction has increased significantly. Administrative costs have increased. The rate of expansion does not at all keep pace with the increase in traffic, an increase in traffic far beyond what someone has planned. Several times, the Right has proposed other forms of funding, making it possible to plan and develop continuous sections on our main road network. Former State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa was a period of drift in that matter, but was immediately reinstated by the Minister of Finance. The current state council has expressed the same thing – we'll see if she has any more impact on that issue. As far as the railway is concerned, I have to say that I made some thoughts when I was on my way home from Germany yesterday and read a book by Guillou called the Bridge builders, which is about the expansion of Bergensbanen 110 years ago. They didn't have much to help themselves with, they didn't have much money either. Today we have the money, we have a lot to help us with, and we know that there are actors and banks at the door, foreign actors, who are very willing to come to Norway and help. Today, passenger traffic is detonated, and rail freight is becoming increasingly smaller, contrary to intentions. I traveled between Hanover and Berlin yesterday for 250 km/h. It was unusually pleasant, and I look forward to intercity being built in Norway too, but not just in the East. Intercity is also talking about the other big cities, especially the Bergen and Trondheim areas, which are very important. I was at Alnabru a little while ago, and then it was not only the capacity it was on when it was about increasing the transport of goods on the track, but also the flexibility. When the private actors asked for more space, Rome replied Property: No, we need it ourselves – without having used it. So we're going the wrong way. We know that almost all transport to Norway from outside, as the Minister for Fisheries just said, comes to Gothenburg, which is considered the largest port in Norway, and then it goes by truck from there to Alnabru. There's very little going on the railway, and it's very uncomfortable when we think about what kind of intentions all the parties in this room have. As far as maritime transport is concerned, I mentioned in the question to the Council of State that I am very pleased with the initiative taken to engage in a dialogue with the owners of the goods, and also with regard to the fairway. But there's a lot left on that side too, and we're looking forward to a positive outcome of the question of unloading, which is now being investigated, and that it can reduce the cost of shipping goods by sea. For as long as the transport is cheaper and fastest on the road, the goods owners choose that particular mode of transport. Then, as politicians, we have to make sure that it gets cheaper or better and faster with another way of transporting the goods. A few words about ICT. We are pleased with the initiative taken at the digital first choice, i.e. dialogue between individuals and either municipality, state or county should be digital. It's very important. But we're not so happy that resources are not being used to ensure that the digital highway, as it's called, is sufficiently expanded. There we are slowing down aft compared to a lot of other nations. The council said that we want more for the money, and she said that what matters is how we organise the railway operation. It was almost so I could say it myself. I hope she gets through for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1301	Emergency networks are the new digital radio connection to the three emergency situations of fire, health and police. It is a listening-proof interconnector system designed to provide better functionality, voice quality, coverage and capacity than the current link. Emergency networks are used both internally in each user organisation and as a cooperative where input resources share time-critical information between different organisations. Emergency networks are being developed to meet the needs of emergency facilities that they have described. Furthermore, the development is in line with the framework provided by Stortinget and the recommendation of the external quality insurer. The Emergency Communications Directorate is closely followed up, both through the administration of the Department of Justice and Security and the regular supervision of the National Audit Office. Emergency grids are in use throughout the first stage of development. About 8 000 radio terminals are connected to the system. Monthly there are more than half a million calls in the Emergency Network. Emergency networks work, and all user surveys show that the vast majority of users are satisfied. Where weaknesses are identified, the system continues to improve. The Norwegian Emergency Network is based on standard ETSI TETRA technology. The TETRA standard is used by Iceland, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Lithuania, Estonia, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Slovenia, Portugal, Italy and Greece. In Norway, delivery of TEDS is also included in the contract. TEDS is part of the TETRA standard, which provides faster data traffic on the emergency network, and a TEDS pilot project will be carried out in Norway next year. If everything goes well, it will allow emergency networks to transfer data traffic at a higher rate. Both the analyst Gartner and the Ministry of Finance’s external quality assurance companies, which ensured the evaluation both of the first and second stages of construction, concluded that there were no real alternatives to TETRA. And it's a fact that no other country has based its emergency networks on commercial mobile networks. The objective of an emergency grid coverage of close to 100 pst. by the population and 79 pst. of the land area, standing firm. Emergency networks will provide almost full coverage along European roads, highways and highways, as well as in cities and agglomerations. Increased signal strength in cities and agglomerations is required to optimise indoor coverage. There will be cover in coastal areas and cover requirements for helicopters. Mobile base stations for use e.g. in mountain cottages and several indoor facilities have been ordered. Ensuring coverage is a comprehensive and time-consuming process. It requires not only good planning but also adjustments after measurements and experience from use. Working methods have now improved: Prior to the expansion, local emergency situations are being implemented in all areas of development to provide information on local conditions and needs. Then the Emergency Network is built with good coverage in the areas where people live and the Emergency Catastrophes move. When emergency networks are established in each development area, user experience and field measurements shall identify the need for possible construction of additional base stations. The current working method provides the practical best and fastest way to build the nationwide network. In order to be able to use emergency networks also in the event of incidents in areas where fixed coverage is not established, mobile base stations will be acquired. The July 22 Commission identified the need for personnel in emergency situations to be trained in order to better exploit the potential of the emergency network system and to ensure temporary solutions to meet the need for satisfactory connectivity until emergency networks are established throughout the country. The emergency situations have a separate responsibility for establishing good interaction procedures, procedures and connection disciplines. Emergency situations are also responsible for training end-users in the Emergency Network. DNK has launched and will undertake several activities to strengthen training and transfer of competences to and between users of Emergency Networks. Both the supplier exchange, the contract supplements and increased expansion time have significantly reduced the risk in the project. The development of Emergency Networks meets Storting's requirements for quality and surface coverage. The step 2 deployment of Emergency Networks is in full swing. As of today, there is ongoing expansion in Hedmark, West Oppland and Gudbrandsdalen police districts, and radio planning is under way for the whole country. National Emergency Networks are completed by the end of 2015, in line with the recommendation of the external quality insurer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1336	It is very good that the Minister of Justice comes to Stortinget. We haven't been spoiled by the seven years that the red-green government has run. Unfortunately, we have seen that one problem after another has arisen in connection with the emergency network. Not too long ago we had the storm Dagmar, when large parts of the bases fell into Akershus. The council says it's working well now. On Ila, the whole web fell under an exercise. It is quite critical that the emergency network does not deal with the type of situation that is essential to ensure that the people in the first-line service have good equipment and equipment that they can use. Now will the Council of State spend some more money to make sure there's enough power? Or are we still going to experience that a small snow of a storm is what makes sure that large parts of the emergency network do this out and can't handle such small things? Now you have the opportunity. If you just want to, you can put in more money to make sure you have good power supply. But that means you might need to spend some more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1345	Safe communication during a crisis is absolutely essential, and in this way, the Emergency Network will provide us with a solution we have not had so far. It's far better and safer than the previous solution. But what we experienced with Dagmar both in the West and in the Central East showed that we needed to strengthen the back-up capacity, and significant investments have already been made to ensure it. With regard to the example of the representative Hoksrud mentioned in connection with Ila, it has been taken up and repaired. There is also some of the important things that are happening now, namely that where the network is found to have weaknesses that need to be corrected, it is seized and cleaned up in view of the fact that this is to be delivered as intended by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1352	I have previously stated that setting up an emergency network is expensive and difficult, but necessary. I want to give praise to the Council of State because the feedback I hear from today's post is that both government and department are on the offensive to close some of the holes that have been critical, in our concerns for the expansion of the emergency network. Emergency networks are the lifeline for people's security of contact with the necessary emergencies. At the same time, the various emergency situations have also notified that there has been no lack of criticism, but there has been a lack of criticism and a desire for improvement. Now I hear that the Council of State says that it is being implemented that meet locally with the various emergency situations. What I'm asking is whether the Council of State can confirm that there will be a structure and a system both locally and centrally for user involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1359	Ensuring that the emergency network is delivered as intended and that, in particular, correcting faults is done properly, is central to ensuring delivery. The Emergency Communications Directorate has been in contact with the various emergency situations and users, with a view to correcting errors. I have not excluded the representative Schou here, which is to put user involvement in a system, for my part, and it is central for us to ensure – in dialogue with the directorate – that we get a model that ensures user interests in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1366	Thank you for your answer, also to the Council of State. In the last exercise carried out in the capital area, including the Gardermoen, the Emergency Communications Directorate had chosen not to participate on its own initiative. My question to the Council of State is that these emergencies need to be rehearsed. Fire, health, police and defence must be practised, but at the same time we must also test out what is the lifeline – the emergency network. Will the Council of State in its further work ensure that we get a practice arena? Moss airport Rygge military part is one of the areas concerned. Getting an arena for practice where the emergency network is included, it would have been okay if the council had given us its view.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1375	I am well aware of how the concept of training Tyr gave a special solution when it came to the Directorate of Emergency Communications, and therefore their participation in that exercise was very limited. I see it as absolutely central that the emergency situations are practicing and that they are practicing with the relevant actors. Safe communication for good crisis management is important. In any case, it is my intention that where it is natural, the directorate must also participate in such exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1382	Progress Party rose to a state council that stands up for the project. Governments refer to the emergency network as a liaison system. The need for access to text and image is much clearer and stronger now than when the project was started. My question is whether another or additional system is needed to meet that need – access to text and image – or whether it can be adapted to the further development of the emergency network project, and I ask the Council of State to reflect a little about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1391	It has always been that the emergency network project has had a responsible state council, and I can confirm that it is very important for this state council to have this project implemented according to plan. The emergency network project shall ensure interfacing between emergency situations and group calls have been important to ensure a good level of security in closed networks. This is achieved according to plan, based on TETRA technology, as well as the countries around us – all the Nordic countries, for example. - user. By adding this so-called TEDS technology to TETRA technology, it gives us an opportunity to also send larger amounts of data through the network. This is going to be a trial project next year, and of course we will have to wait for the result, but I have hopes that it will provide such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1396	Many questions have been asked about the emergency network. Governments responded well to several of them, but it is quite clear that the quality of this new emergency network is entirely decisive. Ingelin Killangereen, among others, said: she chose the cheapest solution for national notification. We later saw that it wasn't lucky. We should focus on quality, and it has our importance for the Christian People's Party. It seems that many of the issues have been addressed by former replicants here now. I want to challenge the government councils on the following: We know that there are some voluntary organisations that are actively involved in preparedness work. They also depend on access to a good communication network. The new emergency network is a challenge for them. Is there a problem that the government is now looking at; how to include voluntary organisations in the emergency network?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1404	I feel confident that the emergency network will give us an opportunity to communicate in crisis, which we have not had before. In the discussion about the emergency network project, it is important to keep emergency communications as a concept and that it also includes other things, separate from the emergency network project alone. Therefore, in the case of national alerts, it is something other than the emergency network. We already have several volunteer users in the trial project, and the intention is, of course, that more organisations should also be able to participate. They're important actors in our rescue model. How this is to be done, we will come back later, but I can assure the representative that there are more people in the emergency network already.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1411	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1414	In the setting of this case, there are many correct descriptions from the opposition on important transport projects, such as: The King's Wingway and the Old Route 2, now E16. I should have liked to have commented on them all, but in a red-green note we refer to both the current NTP and the work with the coming one. So no projects are ignored, and I leave it to that in this debate. The attitude in this case is interesting reading. The opposition is trying to make it look like most things are miserable, very little is happening in road and rail development, etc. The production is wrong, and I think they know that, but this is probably part of the political game. What we are hearing is that with a Progress Party – Right-Registration, it is certain that it will be an enormous investment and progress in all projects across the country. The party of progress writes in a note that: ‘an efficient public sector with a focus on providing good services without disproportionate use of resources’. So far we agree, but then it comes: ‘These members indicate that costs within several agencies and supervision in the field of transport have increased sharply under the red-green government.’ And they believe that there must be room for lower resource use, and therefore propose to cut the allocations to the central administration. The representative of Romemetveit and several others have already mentioned the Coastal Plant, but this also applies, among other things. Ministry of Transport. What in the world is the Progress Party thinking that these businesses are doing for the day-to-day? When you increase the level of activity, when this room adopts new measures, projects, laws, etc., there are people who are going to do the job, with pre-work and post-work, and they're putting our decisions out alive. However, the Advance Party justifies the cuts that the level of activity in a number of areas, for example: The ministry may be reduced. Then my question is, What activities are going to take place? I would like to stress that the activity in the transport sector has never been higher, with an increase in appropriations from the state budget to the road and the path of 64 pst. since 2005. This, of course, has led to the need to strengthen the planning and implementation capacity of the agencies and thus also more work in the department. If we were to follow the proposals of the Progress Party, we wouldn't be able to meet the NTP, as we are doing now. For me, there's a mystery about how they're going to be able to start all their projects, and then grant less to those who're going to do the job. The Progress Party today has well over 20 proposals in this Chamber, and all the proposals start with ‘The Government asks...’, etc. If this is adopted, you can again ask who is going to do the job. Does the Progress Party believe that this is the Council of State? But what's interesting is what the Right Party's fiancée thinks about this. After all, the party of progress continues to attack the great, useless bureaucracy, as they call it, while calling for more supervision and control. But what does the Right mean? The representative of Schou has been the Council of State and should have insight into what a department actually does. What does she think about the proposals of the Progress Party? Another area where it may be interesting to get answers is the environment and research. The progress party will not just cut the appropriations, but they will write in the setting: ‘These members also cut subsidies for inappropriate subsidisation for so-called environmental purposes, including the Transnova programme of 77,2 million. crowns.’» We must be allowed to ask if the Progress Party really knows what Transnova is doing – and further on: What does the Right really mean about this? We should also be able to get an answer to that question. So to the most important thing for the Progress Party, no matter what policy area we're talking about, tolls. As this is the last budget we deal with during this magnificence period, the voters now deserve to know what will result from this matter if the Right Party and the Advance Party are in government in one year's time. To make it quite clear: the Progress Party proposes that all toll stations be removed from 1 January 2013. What does the Right think about it? We must be able to get an answer to that. No matter how much jam and simmering there is over most of the country – and now about transportation – it is a fact that there has never been more investment in infrastructure than today, and we are adding up to even greater investment in the coming year. It is to rejoice, as also the representative Hoksrud actually did when the budget became known in October. But the joy was well taken over, for now he is inside the accustomed fold again. The representative, Halleraker, began his speech by telling us that Norway is one of the world’s most expensive countries in which to engage in business. Yeah, that's possible, but it might have been a little bit weird if it had been the cheapest. Then the Norwegian society had looked quite different – it had been a society that I didn't want. At least it's not worse here than we have an industrial production in Norway that's 16 pst. Today it was higher than in 2005, creating more than 300,000 new jobs — two thirds of them in the private sector. We know that many Swedes are also recommended to go to Norway to start business, as bad as the Right makes it, it can't be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1459	I hope it's a voluntary matter with whom you're engaged. Much can be said about this year's budget for transport, but a good budget with ambitions to lift Norway out of the challenges we face in infrastructure development is not. As I see it in the budget, there is a clear distortion of the use of money geographically, which particularly affects North Norway. To believe the newspaper Nordlys, which is an Arbeiderpartei-avis, has Nord-Norway approx. 10 pst. by the population. It's a state of many ways and long distances. Therefore, it is almost impossible to believe that the region, which accounts for almost half of Norway geographically, is being eaten by less than 5 pst. of the budget for transport. One would almost think that North Norway was not part of the country. It's easy to claim, as the government does, that you want to live in the whole country. But in practice the government does not follow this up. The credibility is completely gone, and the so-called North Region bet has become beautiful words about the north, which was very well illustrated earlier today, when the representative Bjørnflaten came up with some highest poem. Nord-Norway needs politicians who take into account the national dimension, the population and the needs of business rather than having loyalty to a failed system. Air transport is important and, most importantly, where there are no other types of national transport services. Upgrades and expansion of our airports are in line. The lack of funding is precarious for Avinor. Obviously, the government does not want to contribute to a decentralised settlement and a competitive business throughout the country. Therefore, in contrast to the government, the promotion party does not want to take dividends of 438 million. kr for 2013 from Avinor. Avinor has important investment measures, such as T2 at Gardermoen, terminal facilities in Flesland and development of Guards. The Progress Party also prioritises Avinor's investment needs at the airports of Kirkenes, Alta, Tromsø, Bodø and Ørsta-Volda. Proper security on our public roads is important. Unfortunately, there is a lack of clear criteria for this – they are absent. As an independent Commission for Transport, the State’s Committee on Disasters has done important work. The Progress Party wants to strengthen the resources of the Disaster Commission by 6 million. kr, in particular as regards the investigation of road accidents, there is little doubt that most accidents and deaths occur in this area. For most, an OPS project means an organisation involving cooperation between public and private actors. But if one is to take the Right and Christian People's Party seriously in their comments, it would be thought that OPS stood for public private tax collection, because they do not justify the financing of a lot of projects. Since the government's budget has been extremely poor in North Norway, the Progress Party has invested funding for projects in North Norway – 400 million. kr from Nord-Trøndelag to Fauske, 100 million. kr. to E6 from Fauske and northwards, 250 million. SEK to E8 in Troms – due to traffic problems – 100 million. kr as a start-up grant to the Nordnesfjellet in Troms, 100 mill. In addition to the government's proposals related to the Sørkjo mountain, 100 million. kr for start-up of the Skarvberg tunnel in Finnmark and 100 mill. kr for the start of construction of Tana bru. Setting up an efficient infrastructure that reduces distances and continues to be larger and smaller is important for rural development. The Progress Party proposes a re-examination of the coast road in Finnmark and proposes an investigation of a new E6 trasé in Finnmark between Alta and Kirkenes. Such a trasé could shorten the distance between East Finland and West Finland by approx. 180 km – or two and a half hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1480	It's a little comical that one of the main themes here today is a note that the Progress Party has taken the initiative, to which we – the red-green – have joined, and on which we are challenged from the Right and Christian People's Party. A little tip might be that the Right and Christian People's Party took this up with their possible future coalition partner Progress Party. At least that's my advice to the frustrated gentlemen Halleraker and Hareide: take a round with the Advance Party, instead of challenging us on the note. We also lack a documentation from the same two frustrated gentlemen regarding the public funding of these OPS projects. We have huge problems seeing this, so do we. Otherwise I was going to pick up a little bit, but this was reasonably predictable, so I think I'm going to stick to script from now on. It is important to stick your finger in the ground and to focus on reality, not least in the world of politics. When one hears the political grievances of the opposition, one should think that this country is miserable in most areas. Of course, that's not the case. In recent years Norway has been assigned to the world's best country to live in, and with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre at the rudder we find that Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, we have small differences, we have a well-developed welfare system, and we build the country. This is especially the last thing we are discussing here today. It was liberating when committee chairman Hareide said: «not so bad» when he commented on the red-green government's proposal for a budget for transport two years ago. This stood – and stands – in sharp contrast, especially to the chronic dissatisfaction of the Progress Party in both this field and most other fields. Hareide is right: the red-green government delivers, including in the transport sector — not to say specifically in this sector. Few other areas have had such a formidable growth after the red-green government took over as just the transport sector. Infrastructure appropriations have increased dramatically, and we have finally received a government that follows up NTP. The election next year is about social orientation and what we're going to spend the big money on. Here's a big difference between us and the opposition. For us in the Workers' Party, the recipe is clear: a split layer in which we ensure good welfare arrangements for all and a continued commitment to the development of road, track and other infrastructure. This stands in stark contrast to the Right and Advance Party, which announces colossal tax cuts and privatisation. I think this will lead to less opportunities for investing in important infrastructure. The experience of the last time the Right was in government with the Advance Party as a supporting party shows that. Tolls are also a hot topic in the debate on transport. The party of progress means that they are opposed, that all the bombs should be removed and that no new ones should rise if they come to power. Of course, it's not that simple. Some places have even entered the Progress Party for bombs. The progress party itself knows that this is unrealistic, and that they will never get through to it. I therefore believe that the representative of Hoksrud in this Chamber today should say to his constituents that this will never be implemented by the Progress Party. If the representative Hoksrud does not, perhaps the representative Halleraker can confirm that the Right, as the fiance of the Progress Party, will not agree to it. The worst thing is, however, that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party say that it is really those who are the tolling parties. With their privatisation, tolls will be paid in a number of areas of well-being. Then we're talking about really big amounts. So there's no reason to do black paint. The government delivers so it keeps going, even in this area, and we're going to do it in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1503	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1506	The 2013 budget is a budget for work and well-being. For seven years the government has worked for work for everyone, for well-being for everyone and not least for good infrastructure. This government will continue to improve Norway, while the opposition says that they will take Norway in a completely different direction. Therefore, the 2013 election will be a direction option. The choice will be about well-being and community or tax cuts to those who have the most of them. Because if you're going to spend the same money – you're going to get the right one at the same time – and you're going to have a big tax cut, it's going to be less money for well-being. On the transport budget, there is always discussion about who has the most money, and who can get ahead with the projects. I notice that the Right says that they have a much higher stake on the railway than the government – and then it's 15 million. kr to a lift! Well, well a lift is good in and separately, but it can't be called the big bet. I also attended a meeting here in Stortinget with all the coordinators from the whole intercity triangle. Vocabulary requires intercity to be completed by 2023. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I had to say that it must come back to us in connection with a new national transport plan. But right, they said yes! But in the last week, Erna Solberg had to go in and correct this, until 2030. I actually think it's important that we are realistic here. We in the Workers' Party are betting on the railroad. We have seen this through each budget from 2005 to now. Today is a very good day. Last night, the municipality board decided in Ski both the control plan for Ski Station and Follobanen. Today we shall adopt 827 million. SEK to new double track Oslo–Ski, it will say Follobanen – the planned construction start is in 2014. This is important for Ski and Follo, but also for Oslo and Eastfold. In particular, it is important for the environment. Getting the most commuters on trains will give you a very good environmental impact. I can tell you that the connection from the three lines has been commented on. A solution must be found. It is actually quite possible to make a connection south of Ski. In the meantime, trains from the east line can be crossed at Ski Station. I want to find a solution so that we don't risk any releases on the project. For start-up in 2014, everything depends on the plan. I want to encourage all the political parties, both from Eastfold and Akershus, to try to work for a solution. Because there's no one who's lit with delays. I have noticed through the debate here today that many would wish that the spade had already been seen in the earth. I also want to, but I understand that we have to regulate and plan before we can build.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1525	It's amazing to note that the representative de Ruiter still, after seven years in Stortinget, is unable to see the difference in competitive outsourcing and privatisation. There are no limits to the number of themes on which the focus could be on infrastructural issues and on the misguided policies pursued in this area. I'm going to focus on one main thing: E39 from Kristiansand to Stavanger. The South is on top as an export state. Forecasts for the country section show large growth in the future. E39, this route between Kristiansand and Stavanger, is largely a two-field narrow road – curved, hilly, with the ears of tunnels that are so dark and narrow that it is not surprising that something goes wrong. Because it does it both look and often. This is one of the country's most unfortunate routes. Over the last ten years, too many people have lost their lives. The number of seriously injured persons is sky high. Many patchwork projects have been carried out in the last 30 years on the road between Kristiansand and Stavanger. But the speed has largely been reduced from year to year, so it might seem that this is the only way to regulate the frequency of accidents. Large parts of E39 between these cities now have 60 km/h as the speed limit. Even new trasé projects go out on the date before they are opened, like the bridge over the Fedafjord. It was so wrong that several traffic actors refused to participate in the opening to indicate that this did not meet their objectives. Clapping is planned again, including roundabouts that require trailers and other heavy goods vehicles to brake down to 20 km/h in order to get around. Is it possible to close your eyes to the need? Why not build flat-free crossings instead of roundabouts? It must then be socio-economically appropriate to avoid as poor a solution as these roundabouts. Cheap, yes, well, but miserable. So these numbers are being introduced. The NHO has ordered a report, and we've been told from Cambridge Analytics that numbers have been used that don't hold water. So these numbers that form the basis of Norwegian road construction, don't keep goal. They're directly wrong. In addition, the cost-benefit models used are very poor on the part of the Road Administration. This means that almost all the projects are then assessed as socially unprofitable, on the wrong basis. The report points out, among other things: on reliability of travel, increasing benefits for road users over time and regional development as factors that should be included. So where is the focus on the long-term, on the social benefits, on survival and, last but not least, the use of the present surplus of capital to secure the Norway of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1540	When you read the alternative budget of the Right and Advance Party for 2013, you get a clear impression that there is a very bad situation in this country. The Progress Party even shows that Albania is better off. Other studies show the exact opposite. We don't feel so bad in this country. In fact, it is said that we are the world's richest and best country to live in, even when measuring in other than money. Professor Bo Sandemann Rasmussen at Aarhus University shows that many economic reforms have been carried out in the Nordic countries in recent years. It makes us better equipped to deal with the challenges that the wave of old age will bring to the welfare state. I have no doubt that there may be road sections in Albania that are better than some road sections in this country. But I'm also pretty sure that if you ask people in Albania if they would rather have a welfare society like what you have in Norway than the one that you have in Albania, I think they would have chosen ours. I am also sure that we will find great road sections in quite a number of countries in southern Europe, where it has been invested in billions of years. I know that many of these countries would rather have our welfare model, where we see a lot of things in context, and build up in relation to it. It is that we need to see several things in context, the consequences of the different measures, before we can realize our wishes. That's what happened under the previous government, Bondevik II. They didn't have the same belief in the future purely economically as we have, parked their own NTP, and granted far below what they themselves had put up to there. Now the Right says, ‘These members follow up the Right Transport Plan 2010–2019’. That's great, but can we believe it? On the other hand, we have placed a high level of ambition in our NTP – and we are following it, at a formidable rate of funding. For transport purposes, the budget increases by 12.4 pst. from 2012 to 2013. You're talking about enforcement! The right repeats itself in the budget setting. It says that OPS is a kind of new idea and a better solution. But what's new with OPS? We've been trying this all the time since the millennium. Is that how the Right promotes new ideas, by bringing out old, tried methods and then wrapping the old idea into new and shiny paper? We're too new and better ideas. We want more and more road projects realized, and we want to assess new funding opportunities. But we cannot imagine with our heart that in Norway it will be necessary to get help from private people to finance this. We have money that we spend every year, and we don't have to use the well-known and expensive payment method.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1561	Many municipalities in Rome wonder where and when the third runway on the Gardermoen will be built. A third runway will have a significant impact on the control plans of the municipalities and the use of areas around the aerodrome. It is a frustration to trace in the municipalities, and there is an uncertainty: should the track be located on the east or west side of the existing airport? For the time being, it is not clear whether a third runway should be built at all – waiting for the government. The government is a bottleneck here, when it comes to giving signals to the municipalities. The primary function of the municipalities must be to have a preliminary link between the recommended extension area. This would make it possible to look forward – not like today, to rest on site and not to develop the municipality further – and to avoid situations where settlement in the area makes it difficult to further develop the Gardermoen area. Several consultations and further investigations have been carried out, and the matter is now with the government. OSL expects a strong growth in traffic. This is why the terminal areas are now being developed. It is believed that there will also be a need for a third runway on the Gardermo in a few years. But what does the government do? However, a third runway at Gardermoen will have major consequences for the host municipality and neighbouring municipalities and not least for the living environment and noise around Gardermoen airport. The municipalities involved are currently experiencing a strong population growth. It will obviously be a great advantage for both the municipalities concerned and the residential community to clarify as soon as possible the location of the third runway – east or west of existing aerodromes. I would therefore like to point out to the House that the Progress Party has made a proposal, in which we want to clarify this with the location quickly – not the construction, but the location. That means you have to clarify: Is there a need for it? I think it is. And you have to point to where the location should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1576	There is once again an investment on the railways in Norway, and most of the investment is in Westfold. It delights me as a representative from the county and also very many other west folds. Next year, we're going to invest 6.1 billion. kr in new lines – 1.3 of these go to the Westfold Railway. In three years opens new double tracks, from Holm to Nykirke. We're also going to get the lightning standard on these lines, so that the train can cruise at a comfortable speed of 250 km/h. There will also be full speed on the construction of new double tracks with lightning standard between Larvik and Porsground, which will reduce travel time from 34 to 12 minutes. It is obvious that it will help to bind Westfold and Grenland closer together. I think it's okay to establish the following in the last budget debate on transport before the next major elections: Norway is on track again, and it's happening with the Swedish government, after changing governments before us have neglected the railway for decades. This government has completed or launched railway development on the Westfold Railway for 15 billion. kr. Now the challenge is to escalate and dry to bet even higher. We need to have continuous double tracks on the Westfold Railway, which will significantly reduce travel time between Oslo and the westfold cities. This will mean a new everyday life for commuters and others travelling on this route. The optimal development of the route will cost 40 billion. kr, according to the Railway Agency. But when this expansion will also help reduce CO2 emissions by 15 000 tonnes per year, I think it's a bit like investing in me, which is 22 years old – then you're betting on the future. We must dry up to give the railway the right to drive in the transport policy. If we're serious, we have to do the railway as good as, or even better than, the car. Then we have to have good seats to offer, we have to have a good internet connection, and we have to buy trains that can take advantage of the speed that we create with the lightning sections. Finally, the train can connect the regions with an efficient transport solution. That is why it is important that in the new transport plan we also have a strategy for linking the Vestfold Railway and the Sørlandsbahnen, and then look at a new coastal railway to Kristiansand. In this way, new double tracks on the Westfold route will not only contribute to efficient local train traffic but also help to connect national parts. I'm going to say three poetic words that apply to the railway, and as I think all the big politicians should also recognize themselves in: forward-looking, modern and environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1601	The chairman of the transport committee said earlier today: "Trafficking is important for people's everyday lives. Yes, that's absolutely true, and I agree with that. In the Østerdalen, where I come from, we spend a long time being taken seriously when it comes to transportation, despite the fact that we have the main transport corridor between the north and the south in Norway through the valley, where the fish from the north and goods from the north-west are sent south and out to markets throughout Europe. The Røros Railway wanted the right-hand side down, our main road didn't get any money, and Røros' main route airport was reduced. Of course, I'm not talking about today. I'm talking about the last time the Right put in position – the time until 2005. Rv. 3, the Røros Railway and also the airport of Røros are important for us who live far up in the Østerdalen, up in the mountain region, and who have one of Norway's longest distances, measured in travel time, to the Oslo area, despite our living on what is defined as the East. Transport is essential for us to be able to feed and live and live in our region. In the State budget presented in the autumn of 2004, Rv. Three zero dollars - nothing. It's changed. Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, our current Minister of Agriculture, said in 2004 that we should do something about this. He promised 100 million. kr the year to this road and was made raw and brutal fool of it. But this promise he has kept, and we have even increased it. Today, the situation is quite different. In Hedmark, we have several important transport projects. The four-field road and the double-track railway are built in one project at Mjösa, to name a few. This is my story, but it also symbolizes the movement effort we have had with the Red-Green Government and the Center Party in the Ministry of Transport over the last seven years. We've had a historic journey promise. No previous government has fulfilled and overfilled the national transport plan as the red-green government has done. And that's reason to remember that we actually had a lot of oil revenue last time we had a civil government too – so there's no excuse. It is important for the districts to have good communication with the outside world, but it is at least equally crucial for the development of our cities. We're going to have a strong population growth in the future, and naturally a lot of it's coming in the cities. We therefore need to invest massively in public communications in and around the big cities, so that growth can spread over a much larger area. I am pleased that the government is continuing the strong movement effort – as we have done in this year's state budget – and I look forward to a new NTP with a commitment to transport that will ensure the high population growth forecast in a good way and ensure that there are still lives created both in the north-east valley and in other districts of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1618	Before we really take on the long line of three-minute posts from the government parties that are going to brag by the government, it might be of interest to hear what the government itself answers to a question about the number of miles of road built in recent periods. From 2002 to 2005 it was built 525 km by road, writes the Department. From 2006 to 2009 – i.e. the last government period – it was built 535 km. After that we have separated the county roads – we adjust for it, it becomes 175 km in the first period and 178 in the second period. In the period we’re in – if we make an estimate for 2013 and are a little benevolent to what’s in the budget – the number of kilometres of road will come up in about 180, it says in the letter from the department. Well, it's a fact that comes from the department itself, and it doesn't always help to refer to crowns when things have become so much more expensive: they built the same number of kilometers of road under the previous government. At least that's what the letter from the department says. I have to say a little bit about the matter we are dealing with with with the budget, namely OPS. The rapporteur, Susanne Bratli, had a real tiger, which has to be met on a number of points. Firstly, this government has not put new ideas into practice – not one new idea. We were actually quite uplifted when we got the Soria Moria statement, because there was the answer to the OPS success, which is what the Swedish Railway Agency, Vegvesenet, TØI – a number of instances in our field – said was something we should bet on further. The response from the government parties at the time: Yes, let's bet on a model that is within the state regime – project finance. What happened to that proposal? It was scolded by the Ministry of Finance the following year. Since then, nothing has happened but that we have got these three budget lines. Then there's another fact that's completely wrong: nobody in Europe uses it. It has to be based on the fact that you can't do this. Very many countries in Europe use it. There was one country that came out crooked because the Labour ruled the economy for many years, and that was England. We've criticized the way Labour organized for this, not that they used the instrument. But the very most countries in Europe that finance their projects do so in the way we point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1629	Transport is of particular importance to business and to create growth and development throughout the country. It is important for the development of our export industries, not least for the marine food industry, which have enormous growth potential. The new maritime food notification under preparation aims to make Norway the world’s leading maritime nation. Then it's important that we provide roads and logistics solutions that make this possible. That's what we in the Center Party are concerned about. In my own home country, Troms, we look forward to upgrading the E8 Skibot – Finland border, which starts in 2013. It is a particularly important route for the industry in Nord-Troms. More than 85 combinations of vehicles loaded with salmon run over Skibotn every week. These combinations of vehicles depend on reaching trains and continuing flights to the continent, and for this industry in particular, it is essential that the state initiates road improvement on this route through the Skibotndalen. The centre party would like to see it possible to start the construction of a new E8 to Tromsø, which was scheduled to start in 2013. The road was to be financed in a split layer between the State and tolls, with 50-50 distribution. It is regrettable that the City Council of Right in Tromsø Municipality has gone away from previous decisions and put an end to the expansion. The decision means that a path that has taken 24 years to fight is postponed for several years. There is reason to fear that this will have a major impact on road safety and accessibility, and I point out that among other things. an overall business life in Tromsø responds strongly to the fact that the municipality of Tromsø impedes this important development. In addition, the centre party is concerned with the start of two other important sections of Troms: the development of a new line across the Sørkjo mountain and the construction of a new tunnel on the Nordnes-Skardalen section. These are projects we've been working on over a long time. It is therefore positive that the red-green parties in the delivery of the transport budget underline the importance of these two projects and the importance of their rapid implementation. The setting also indicates that all unresolved matters, such as regulatory decisions, have been resolved. Now it's important to put these sections in place. The high level of investment in the mineral industry means that it is particularly important to increase capacity at Ofotbanen by accelerating the construction of planned crossing tracks. The ore companies LKAB and Northland Resources are planning a significant increase in ore transport on Ofotbanen. The centre party takes a positive view of this development. It is now important that the government through the Railway Agency continue the dialogue with a view to an agreement in which the companies themselves contribute more to the development. Finally, let me add: I look forward to the construction of the Hålogaland bridge, which is now coming into place. This will be a new time calculation for the whole region. It will bind the cities of Harstad and Narvik and bring about a new development in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1644	I record that the assembly is well-known with the word «promise». Otherwise, there's a word about going out of the Norwegian vocabulary, and a lot of young people wouldn't understand what we're talking about. But I understand that there are several people who have such exposures to the conscience – but now leave it alone – it is absolutely recommended. The representative of Sønsterud was in this regard with the red tape and the efficiency of public administration and what Right considers it to be in relation to the proposals of the Progress Party. To this it is said that when the government itself calls for something to be done about bureaucracy – and not several rounds of dances before you come to a decision and effect – it should be lacking that we, as a political authority, are not turning around and looking at how many positions the government has increased. There is always a significant potential within organisations to do things differently, to do things better and to ensure that matters come to fruition, rather than going to several round dances. The representative Kjernli is talking about the right no longer standing by his promises about the intercity triangle. Then I dare to recall the climate agreement from this summer, where the opposition in Stortinget wanted to tie the completion of the intercity triangle to 2025. The government parties said no, and they also said no on the contrary to set their own year, and now some from the Workers' Party talk about 2034. For the Right, it's important that we keep the ambition up to complete the intercity triangle, and we say, "by 2030 at the latest." These include: That in eight years you have realized 34 km; 4 km of double tracks a year makes us 'on the heel' so it sucks! In meeting with the eight county rapporteurs, who have been able in an exemplary way to unite eight county councils in having intercity double tracks as their first priority, the Right maintains ambition as soon as possible and by 2030 at the latest, but preferably before. But it requires us to think of a different organization, development company, other forms of funding, because this is a basis for us to develop our welfare society. It's also about a better climate. I also believe that representatives who have ordered that no one else be involved in OPS, that it has ended, and that we are old-fashioned and behind our time, must read out. This is still the case in Europe, so by this week at the latest, Belgium has gone further with more OPS based on positive experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1657	I have to admit that after hearing Mr Langeland's contribution earlier today, I see a certain light in the tunnel – and the tunnel in my mind is the City Ship's Tunnel. When one then knows that Langeland and SV have been in government for years, this project has been countered, and then Langeland is standing on the platform and boasting how important it is to get more goods from transport to sea, there must have been a revolution in the line of thought for Langeland and SV, and I appreciate it very much. I also record what is stated in the comments from the government party, which also refers to the importance of this project. It says that they are ‘refers to the investigations carried out on the City Tunnel and that there is reason to believe that a ship’s tunnel will facilitate increased and safer maritime transport in a specially occupied area. These members believe that a ship's tunnel can have positive effects on an important business in the region and nationally in order to achieve the objective of getting more goods from road to sea». Yes, it is we who have been the drivers of this project since 1984, have stood up and claimed, and so on. SV has said it's just customs and clothes. This is going to happen, and then there's a reason to have some optimism and a belief that something can happen to this important project. Even if I wanted one, according to what you said in your comments, could have been a little more concrete and said that one will go in to build this and not just conclude that they will review the project in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. Then I want to mention the roads that were the county councils' responsibility before they got all the bad roads transferred from the state. Then the county council was responsible for a part of the road that they had some plans to improve, and that was absolutely necessary to improve if the users were to light up with them. Today, when the county has been transferred as many bad roads as they have been given, they must use all their means to maintain them, and then I am deeply concerned that the roads for which the county was responsible become balancing posts in the budget of the county municipalities. This will have a huge impact on a lot of people living along these roads. These roads have now been so bad that they are almost dangerous to run on, not least because of huge racial danger.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1671	I ask for the word to say a few words about a couple of important transport projects in North Norway. The share of railway appropriations in the national part is very low, of course, because it is not rail throughout Northern Norway. Then it's very important that what's of rail in the north is well maintained; this is very important both in relation to the Northern Railway and the Ofot Railway. These pathways are particularly important for the transport of goods in the national part of the country. Both routes have among the country's highest share of freight by rail. I am very pleased that the committee has finally found money for train trip on the Tverland in the municipality of Bodø. This means that work can be started until next year and completed during 2013/2014. Train stop on the mainland means a lot to public transport in the Bodø region. Bodø is a high-growth university town, with a major need for better public transport, and train stops in the West will, as I said, significantly improve public transport. Ofot track is 1 pst. of the country's railway length, but 60 pst. of the volume of goods by rail in Norway is on Ofotbanen – if we take the ore with us. Until the beginning of the 1990s, only the NSB transported on the Ofot Railway. Today there are five companies. The need for increased transport capacity has significantly increased in recent years, and in the context of the treatment of NTP for spring, the investment programme for Ofotban needs to be clarified by 2020. Then the question of double tracks will be central. In the short term – in 2013 and 2014 – capacity needs to be increased by extending two crossing tracks, Bjornberg and Rombak. If this is not done, the capacity will explode and goods will go from rail to road. There is no money for this in the budget, but reference is made to negotiations on funding with the largest carriers, including LKAB. I hope one comes to a quick and good clarification with LKAB, and that we can get back to Ofotbanen in the revised national budget, with a funding plan for the extension of the two crossing tracks. In the current year's budget, it is announced that the Ministry will consider increasing the road tax on Ofotban for the heaviest ore transport. This is a very important element that needs to be put in place in relation to both the short-term and the long-term maintenance and investment needs. So finally, with regard to the issue of new, large airports at Helgeland and Nordland County, the priority of which and how many small airports have to be closed in that context, I note that the municipality of Nordland has clarified this question this week – the major airport must be replaced by Røssvoll and Kjærstad. Then I am also satisfied that the Minister of Transport is satisfied with the feedback from the county council and will continue this matter in connection with the national transport plan. This is a very important matter for the North and Helgeland regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1686	Good infrastructure in the transport sector is necessary to achieve economic and welfare progress. Future roads significantly reduce the number of deaths and serious road damage. The main years of traffic between Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim must be built as quadruple roads. It is a total record bomb to use today's daily traffic when a dimensioning a main road that may last up to 100 years. New roads must be able to handle future traffic throughout their lifetime. It is claimed that the Ministry of Finance has a hand on the steering wheel. The reason is clear: the lower the traffic forecast, the cheaper the road gets. On the E39 between Stavanger and Kristiansand the number of trailers is approx. three times the national average on corresponding roads. Bad line construction and lots of particularly narrow roadways are the main reasons why there are many road accidents on this route. These result in more deaths and a large proportion of serious injuries. This is an unacceptable state on one of our major highways. There is optimism in the six counties affected by the project Fergefri E39 Kristiansand-Trondheim. Crossing the Sognefjord via tunnel or bridge is the biggest challenge. However, it now appears that the alternatives have been technically solved. A ferry-free E39 will mean a lot to business in the West and South. The exports from mainland Norway on this route are very large. More efficient transport to markets in Europe will make businesses more competitive. Central and local politicians, together with representatives from the industry, must stand together so that the project Fergefri E39 Kristiansand-Trondheim enters the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. The NTP shall be adopted by the Stortinget in the spring of 2013. Planning must start when the project is divided into large enterprise prices that also attract interest from foreign contractors with appropriate experience. State regulatory plans must be used. Local politicians will be given the right to be heard in line with other eloquents. It looks more like wishful thinking to think that this big project will be included in the next NTP. The government has not shown in the last seven years that it is willing to provide sufficient funding for such a large project. The cost estimate for the free E39 Kristiansand–Trondheim is approx. 120 B.C.E. DKK over 10 years. Annual appropriations in the State budget usually result mainly in the construction of short road sections, mostly spread over several counties. This is a clumsy and poorly planned road development that is not worthy of one of the richest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1699	Transport is a central policy area underpinning urban development, district development, industrial development and the environment throughout the country. It's a policy area that engages. Preventing road accidents and improving road safety is, as I read in the Committee's opinion, a priority field, but the parties have different ways of following it. In the setting, the government party, together with the Christian People's Party, is going to clarify the importance of keeping speed limits, increasing the use of seat belt and reducing the level of running in rushes. On the side, the progress is mostly concerned with building four-field roads with an increased speed limit and improving the car fleet. But the most eye-catching thing I think is that the Right and Advance Party do not support the plural comment that indicates that increasing speed reduces the margin of safety during running. In the setting, the majority refers to an evaluation by the Transport Economic Institute and the State Road Administration, which concludes that reducing the speed limit from 80 to 70 km/h on the accident-prone road will reduce the accident rate by 10 pst. and the number of those killed by 40 pst. Is the Right Party and the Progress Party really against reducing the speed limits on accident-promoting routes? In this case, they are against an important and documented response to traffic deaths and accidents. That's what I think is critical. Yesterday there was a health debate here in Stortinget, where I criticized the same parties for being only concerned with treatment and repair and to a small extent concerned with prevention. I thought I saw the same trend in this policy area. I notice that the Christian People's Party here is on the right side. The reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in urban areas means a major investment in public transport and the environment in metropolitan regions. It's positive. Right-wing criticises the practice of the scheme and refers it as a penalty to the cities that do not comply with the explicit demands of the government, such as: during the period of time. This criticism is unimaginable. After all, the Bondevik II government introduced the reward scheme, including the provisions on restrictive measures against private cars, such as rush time charges and parking restrictions. In the municipality of Bergen, to which I believe Right refers, there is no punishment from the government that has been the problem, but that the right-wing council in Bergen has not been willing to resort to djerves to reduce the increase in private cars and thus do not meet the requirements of the right-wing government itself when they create the reward scheme, and which the right-wing government has helped to underline in the different climate differences. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport has now taken action and, under certain conditions, the municipality of Bergen was nevertheless given all the 150 million. kr that was in the agreement. There is a great need to improve the collective effort in Norway's second largest city, where the Urban Line will be the backbone of the further effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1716	I'm very pleased with the government's mention of City Ship Tunnel in the budget. It's also very good to record that a joint committee is now behind this project. The project has been done several times, and I think all of these are necessary. The last cost-benefit calculations from SINTEF show positive societal benefits for the project, and all this promises well. The tunnel will remove the crossing of one of the most dangerous sea twigs we have along the Norwegian coast. Increased safety, more precautionary conditions and reduced waiting time are important both for well boats, container ships, cargo ships, fishing boats, tourist ships, high-speed craft and recreational craft. The location of the tunnel will paste this part of the coast, and one will have a much stronger and more rational construction and labour market region on this part of the coast. With the tunnel, the travel pattern will change significantly in the North West – just think about what a fast boat route between Bergen and Ålesund will mean. The potential that lies in e.g. tourism-right commercial activity with this tunnel is very promising. The world's first tunnel will itself attract tourists from both home and abroad. The potential for value creation in this part of the country will increase significantly. Lo-leader Roar Flåthen said some time ago: "Trafficking joins us all, and the City Tunnel joins us all much more than we should believe." The tunnel will mean a big rise for both traffic and climate, for the whole country. With the City Tunnel, we get some of our most important climate targets implemented to get more of the freight across from land to sea. I'm happy for this chosen one. If we are to be closed down with the strategy for more goods from land to sea, this project is one of the most important tools we have. More goods from land to sea will lead to even more traffic past this dangerous piece of sea. If this project is to be a success, we have to get rid of this dangerous barrier in our lead. This is a national and international case that will be decisive for all those who work at sea, and not least for the industry along our coast. I and many with me expect that the schedule outlined in the NTP will be kept, with the start of the tunnel in the first part of the planning period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1735	First of all, I'm sorry that I got hurt in order to quote Ibsen without crediting the author, but of course I'm going to take note of the president's suggestion. Then I would like to say to the Progress Party, which criticised us for the lack of North-Norway bet: The main responsibility for not having a greater investment in traffic in North-Norway is actually the Progress Party and the Right that must take, after they have shot down the E8 and the new approach to Tromsø, which is one of the most important road projects in the North, and which we were ready to take on in 2013. I would also just like to point out, as the representative Bratli pointed out, that the proposal of the Progress Party will only lead to the strengthening of a division of bias that goes in favour of South Norway, if it is to be followed up. So the right is upset that we have supported the comments of the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The majority of the Committee points out that OPS projects without any State funding as appears to be submitted to the Right mean that the projects must be financed entirely by tolls.’; [[...]] You can ask questions about why Right did not ask the line to the Progress Party, but to us, as we went into the Progress Party's comment. But as I said, we can only speculate on that. But the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the majority has no cover for the claim. I want to turn it around. I would ask the Right Party and the Christian People's Party to prove that they actually have evidence for their claim that these two parties don't add up to OPS projects anywhere in their notes without state funding. In its alternative budget, the right is adding 200 million. kr for planning OPS projects in 2013. In addition, the Right Government is calling for action on OPS funding and organisation on four projects in 2013: E39 Rådal–Svegatjørn – there is some money in the budget – E18 Akershus–Riksgrensen, E18 West Corridor and Bergen–Arna railway project, where there is 50 million. kr. But there is no money in the state budget either for the E18 Akershus–Riksgrensen or the E18 West Corridor. How, then, will the Right and the Advance Party finance these two projects without toll financing in their entirety, when the party does not propose State investment and it has not been proposed through the budget? I want to challenge these two parties to make evidence of their claims in their counter-remark to the majority. I'm starting to think that there's a reason for the very strong reactions of the Right and Christian People's Party in this case, namely that they don't have any evidence for their claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1763	Several metropolitan areas have a particularly high population growth and thus an increased transport demand. The centre party is concerned that this need should be met in a greener and more environmentally friendly way, and then we need to invest more in public transport and better facilitate cycling and walking. I also believe it is in place to get more binding agreements and interaction between municipalities, county councils and the state we will achieve the objectives of getting a more green traffic growth in the big cities. There is no doubt that there is a lot of good work going on in many metropolitan regions, but it is probably absolutely necessary to work even harder on it in the years to come. Collective solutions are important across the country, and the Ministry of Transport therefore proposes a pilot scheme to support the creation of new express bus routes linking the country more closely between counties and regions. I think that's important, and I really encourage the county councils to apply for it and show that it's an engagement to unite the country collectively. In addition, we have a taxi for buses in some counties – which is an important measure to strengthen public transport – and fast boat routes and ferries, which are an important part of coastal public transport. There is a need for technology development, in line with such things as: Torghatten Nord AS has done in view of the new gas ferries deployed on the Westfjord – fantastic new boats, which will be important, new subsidies to get a greener transport sector. We are pleased that we are going to put in place the national scheduler, which is an important tool to plan the collective journeys and have the opportunity to see the whole country together to know how to travel if you have a special desire to travel collectively. In addition, there is a practical daily means for those planning their journey. All of these means are important to get more people to make their journey at a collective level. The climate threat must be taken seriously and emissions from transport represent a significant environmental impact. The transport sector contributes to high social costs and the energy consumption of the sector is high and increasing. One third of domestic greenhouse gas emissions come from the transport sector. Transnova supports different application-based research and development projects. Projects that wish to test new solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector may apply for support. Transnova has now become a permanent body, and the Central Party is very pleased that it is also being strengthened financially. That is why we have been involved – along with the government parties – in proposing an increase of 10 million. In addition to the draft budget for the Government. It's a good move.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1774	The draft budget is very much requested by both dear upgrade measures, the completion of transport measures started and the launch of new important projects. Only in my home country, Hordaland, will a billion bet next year. It is particularly gratifying that the draft budget presented has a start-up commitment to several projects that will be important for the county. These are projects that may not get the very large amounts in this budget, but that get the important start now, and that will in part receive large amounts in the following financial years to be ready. It shall apply, inter alia: a new fishing port in Austevoll, which is a project which is currently being explored by one year in comparison with the one in the Coastal Works programme. There will be a lot to say for the big ocean fishing fleet in the municipality. E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal has an important start-up run of 100 million. kr. Both of these rights should be clear, for example, that there is no myth that this government is not doing anything good in Progress Party-driven municipalities. Last but not least, of course, I must also mention the start-up path for the construction of the double-track railway from Bergen – via a new tunnel through Ulriken – to Arna. There will also be a new station in Arna, and the whole will be equipped with modern and forward-looking signalling systems. This project is also an important start to the Voseban upgrade, which is also an important part of the Bergensban upgrade. The right's draft budget may at first sight appear to be an increase of 1.45 billion. to transport, in relation to the government's proposal. However, one must note that the Right's alternative budget has also been cut to 1.5 billion. kr for regional development in the counties and cut to 0.5 billion. kr in transfers to county councils. The county councils, with such a scheme, will gain considerable weight, and the winnings will go a long way up in spinning. An increase of 800 million. National roads were probably well served by national roads, but the counties have four to five times as much road as the state, and they are also responsible for public transport. Cuts to county councils will, of course, go against their efforts on the road and public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1787	It is a pleasure to vote in favour of a 2013 social budget that is so forward-looking. When I listen to the debate today, it strikes me that the memory is selective. The representative of Øyvind Halleraker is an example of that. He pointed back to the Bondevik II administration several times. Right should be right: it was Bondevik II who created the reward scheme, but there's a certain difference of 60 million. NOK, as it was then, and SEK 673 million. kr, as it is next year. There's also a difference of 6 pst. increase in the transport budget during the period of Bondevik II and 64 pst. increase under this government. Road activity has increased by 90 p.m., and railway investment next year is – in one year – higher than in the entire Bondevik II government. We now have a gradual introduction of a new route model in the east. I have to say it has doctors ahead of time – December 2012 has seemed to be a long time – but now it is, now we are in December 2012. In spring 2005, the Bondevik II Government received an increase of 22 billion in its proposal for a new national transport plan. kr in Stortinget. It was the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Progress Party that stood for it. Status after four years: overfill, then a sharp escalation and – with next year’s budget – overfill. That's the result that counts. So it'll give us almost 1,000 kilometers of new road when everything that's been done is done. It will give us closer to 1,000 km with a new double track – an increase of 40 pst. There have been some hacks in the records of today’s debate – especially with my ears – from the Right and the Progress Party. While the same arguments about another organisation or funding are repeated year after year by both the Right Party and the Progress Party, the government acts – showing implementation, short and good, tying the country better together, reducing distance costs and promoting the environment and emergence. It shows the budget for 2013. The projects that Halleraker normally calls for are inside. All projects that have plan clearance are ready for launch in 2013 and – as we have promised – will be launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1802	We are discussing the old national transport plan and the last year of the four-year action programme with this budget. From the side of government and government parties, we've been very careful to say that we're fulfilling the promises we've made. We're on the right track. It is gratifying to note that we are on the right track in several areas within the transport sector. In particular, I am pleased to note that we are on the right track in terms of road safety. Last year 168 people were killed in traffic in Norway. That's 168 too many -- we'll never stop saying that -- but that's the lowest number since 1953. It shows that we're on the right track. And luckily, the numbers at the end of November show that we're better this year than we did last year at this point. So 2012 might come out as an even better year than the previous one. We have the zero vision as a leading star in road safety work – the desire for a future without killing and seriously damaging traffic. Therefore, we need to take action to further reduce the numbers. The sum of many measures has worked positively, so we have come to where we are now. The sum of many measures still needs to be positive in order for us to move forward. It's about new and better roads. It's about a lot of adjoining works. It's about more and better maintenance. It's about curve recovery. It is about the construction of roundabouts instead of road-hazardous crossings. It's about road lighting, and it's about other physical measures on the road – of course it does. However, it is equally important to point out that there are also other measures to work together. We as drivers must take our responsibility, and the vehicles must be safe from traffic. It is important that the speed limits are reduced on road sections that are dangerous to traffic. It is important that control activities are increased. It is important that we have used automatic traffic control and route automatic traffic control, so-called average speed control, and awareness-raising and training are important. We only need to take note of this when we read in the comments from the Progress Party that they believe that the road safety challenges should only be solved with investment in roads. It is regrettable to note in the draft budget and in the comments on which the Right and the Advance Party are united that they will wind up roadside automated checks. This is an effective measure. According to the Road Safety Manual, this is a good and effective road safety measure. The Right Party and the Advance Party argue, inter alia: as there are so few who have lost their driving licence, the measure does not work. For me, it means that so few people have lost their driving licence, just that the measure is working. The Transport Economic Institute believes that this is an effective action of a further 539 kilometres by road. We have to make unpopular decisions. We need to put knowledge and research into practice if we are to move forward in road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1821	We have registered that Right and Erna Solberg have cancelled their agreement to the Westfold rapporteurs' demands for the expansion of the intercity triangle by the end of 2023. This has been a matter that many in Westfold have seen as a promise from the Right after all their performances, especially in local media, about their investment on the railway in Westfold. But now the Right is going to look up to 2030. Perhaps Right and Erna Solberg think they see the government wave in the distance, and have seen that the rapporteur's approach is difficult to meet – and perhaps not entirely realistic either – or perhaps it is a recognition that the efforts made by the Right in its alternative state budget will not be close to meeting the demands of the West fold rapporteurs, even if they have invested 15 million. kr to a lift. Another reality that also needs to be dealt with by the Right is that the railway works have a planning horizon of 13 to 15 years, provided that everything goes like butter. Well, it doesn't always. This can be seen, among other things. with the right at county and municipality level in Vestfold, which does not agree with the majority of the local government in Horten, which has so far resulted in compromises and demands for three different trasé options to be investigated. As you know, it is both time-consuming and resource-consuming to have to operate with alternative planning. If there is one thing that the Railway Agency is under pressure, it is planning capacity. Although we have a strong focus on educating more engineers, there is also a great deal of tear about these – especially in these days, as the oil industry also vacuums the market. It's a challenge that we don't have the opportunity today to buy out, either at home or in Europe. The red-green government has fulfilled and has made a big effort on the Vestfold track. This has been followed by the majority in this Chamber, both in the national transport plan and in the State budget. Now it's about the continuation – and it doesn't get any less important. A good and forward-looking west-folding path is an important factor in a successful commitment to transport and public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1836	This year, as last year, I can say, we have a huge need for new highways and routes in this country. Plan processes take as long this year as previous years, and I'm just asking, where is the political ability to achieve better and faster planning processes? How many years will it take to find out how to reduce planning processes? I'm just asking, but I don't think the government parties will, or can, answer. The 19-kilometre route E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand is still dangerous. How it's possible to spend so long on a stretch, I guess only the parts that have been in government can answer. This is something we in the Progress Party have pointed out for decades. With the government we have today, we might hope that the road will be completed in 10-15 years – if we are lucky. Fortunately, I think my concern will be put to shame when there will be another government coalition from the fall of 2013. But E18 through East Agder won't be done with it. The stretch between Tvedestrand and Risør is also in poor condition, not to mention the driveway to Risør near Winterkjær. There should have been a new cross a long time ago, but the Minister for Transport used the money that was granted elsewhere. The road from Brokelandsheia therefore ended with a roundabout. It is natural that this round trip has been called Skogsholmen. The party of progress will continue to do so. We want four-field road through the whole county – yes, we want four-field road from Stavanger to Oslo. These are the signals we're giving now, because we want it to come into the future NTP. Rv. 9 is the main trajectory from the west to the east through the east, and to the west. It's important to get rusted up, so it's yellow middle stripe throughout our county, which is also noted by SV. They'll also have yellow midstrips on these roads. There is not much money that is needed to get this work done, and that money should have been set aside for the purpose a long time ago. The progress party has included Rv. 9 in their notes, and we want to include rv. 9 in NTP, so that it can be completed. But – to my great surprise – it would neither the Christian People's Party, the Right Party nor the government parties. We did not receive support for our comments, nor did the parties come with their own comments. When representatives of the Christian People's Party go high and shout in their own state, but do not follow it up, I wonder what the Christian People's Party really means. In the case of rv. 41 On the other hand, at least the Christian party of the people and the right agree with us. We're very happy about that. Rv. 41 is also an important traffic year that passes through my county, which is dangerous for both those who travel on the road and those who walk along it. So here it has to be done quickly. It's with joy I look forward to a government change next year. We won't be able to get everything we want in the first year, but we can then make real plans and show that they will be implemented quickly and efficiently. It shows action, and it makes Norway safer to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1855	This is no hot debate, but regardless of it there would have been an advantage with a little more heat in the hall! I'm going to map in Prop. 36 S, which are amendments to the State budget for 2012. In that case, a large toll project is also mentioned. This concerns the E39 Eigenestunellen in Rogaland, the development and financing plan. There is an extension of the tolling system in the North-Jearen package, which is intended to ensure the tolling contribution to the Eigenestunellen. Let me briefly state that the modernisation of the E39 through Stavanger is the Advance Party for. Let me be equally clear that toll financing of this measure is the Progress Party against. That is why we have put forward an alternative proposal for the construction of the Eigenestunellen with State funding. I also refer to comments and proposals made by the Progress Party in the treatment of the Ryfast project by Storting. I'm also going to brief on road maintenance. In response from the State Council, it is stated that the monitoring of the county road network is expected to be completed early in 2013. It's good, but it's time for jam. It is strange that there has not been the same monitoring of the county road network as it has been done by the national road network. But we look forward to getting that mapping. What makes us worried is part of the following in the answer, and I quote: «The road authority of the Member State considers that the maintenance seat run measured in crowns is not suitable as an overall indicator of the standard on the road network.» We're afraid you'll now run away from the big discomfort that maybe as much as 70-75 billion. kr in the total maintenance run on the national road network and the county road network tells of an attempt to talk away from that problem and not to measure the delay. We will warn against that. Then I will briefly enter the budget for 2013 and purchase of passenger transport services, one of the many questions we have asked about the budget. We have also received an answer to that question. We've got the distribution of the 2,900 million. kr for which it is purchased through the NSB. There's the distribution of 48 pst. in Oslo, 6 pst. for close traffic in Stavanger, 4 pst. to close traffic in Trondheim and 3 pst. to close traffic in Bergen. It illustrates in a very clear way the fragmentation of the way in which the state contributes to the financing of public transport in large cities. You follow a trail, but you don't follow the transport. It's a system we want to change. Finally, the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on ISPS ships. It is the Shipowners' Association that is concerned about the practice of a new regulatory framework. It's been practiced in a manageable way before. You're afraid this will change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1873	The President can inform the representative of Sortevik that we have turned the temperature up here in the Chamber pending the increase in the temperature of the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1876	The easiest thing to do as a politician is to allocate responsibility in such a way that no one is responsible, and that is what this government has done with over 17 000 kilometres of road. In good Norwegian it is called to wash their hands, but there is no more or better way for that reason. There is no doubt that OPS is a very sensible way to organise both road and runway development. OPS provides entrepreneurs with better prerequisites for both design, development and maintenance – not least larger and continuous parcels can contribute to lower costs and higher efficiency. But OPS does not finance road development. I see today that both the Right and Christian People's Party are showering very much with the springs, but I must say that it is a rather skinny cock that is showering. So to the representative Sønsterud, who cannot understand that the Progress Party and the Right want to make public sector more efficient; she does not understand that this is possible. I would like to refer to a 2011 report that shows that Norway has 13,960 employees to manage the transport infrastructure, Sweden, with twice as many people and much more road and track, has 13,200 employees, Finland has 4,300 and Denmark has 4,400. Is it hard to understand that it is possible to put in place a more efficient organisation, or is it such that you don't see the forest for just trees? The representative of Langeland did not understand why Swedish youth took up work in Norway. Well, they did in the 1970s, they did in the 1980s, and they did in the 1990s and in the 2000s, under different governments and different regimes. Nor is it that Norway has large amounts of oil and gas and has large economic muscles, so that we are actually able to stand for progressiveness in our society. Sweden has no oil and gas. It's so hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1887	This week we have Østfold commuters shorter travel time than what we'll get to next week. We'll get a few more trains a week, especially on weekends, we'll get a few more seats, and we'll get a few more minutes' travel time both when we're going into Oslo, if that's where we're working, and when we're going back. It's a paradox when we build a railway for the future. But we have some bottlenecks on our railway. One of them is the capacity through Oslo. We need a new railway tunnel through Oslo. Another bottleneck for us Eastfold commuters is the Oslo-Ski route, where capacity is detonated. We have to put Follobanen in place the sooner, because then I think we also get a little shorter travel time when we're going to commute into Oslo. Then we also have another bottleneck, which shouldn't be a bottleneck, but which has become it, and that's the connection of the eastern line, the railway from Rakkestad, about Mysen, to Oslo. I must say that I am disappointed with the remarks of the government parties in today's position, where it says that a connection of the Eastern Line of Eastfold is not part of the Oslo-Ski project. Yes, that's right, because the Railway Agency has taken this out. It was in the plan program, but because of the challenges of connecting north of Ski Station, which was the idea, this has been removed. This is a change in the project, which is difficult for the undersigned, and which I do not believe the government parties should accept in the light of their own comments from 2010. There was something about a line of thought relative to a connection north, now we should maybe see south, but the most important thing is that this does not go out of the project. The Government Parties further state that such connection is also not necessary for trains from the eastern line to be able to use the Eastfold Railway once it has been completed. That's true, but we're building the Folloban for the future, and then it's also necessary to think about connections for the future. It's also going to have to be taken over by the government. The government parties thus indicate that it is possible for the eastern line to cross at Ski Station when Follobanen is finished. As I know the project at Ski Station, it is more than demanding. I have to say that I am disappointed with the comments made by the government parties about the eastern line in today's budget position, and I hope they can look back at what they did in 2010, and take it over, and don't make any more bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1900	I want to make a special post, a post as the ombudsman in a very small matter, but important for a built-up future. Hallenskog is one of the largest growing areas in the municipality of Røken in Buskerud. An enormous housing construction – 800 dwellings are under way or are imminent, and further expansion is under planning. Mountain ground – uncultivated land, and so short to Hallenskog station on the Spikestadbanen that one can walk or cycle – excellent. But it is a main problem: the station is proposed to be closed to save one minute each way Heggedal–Stikkestad. There is no need to upgrade the platform. It's long enough, tall enough. The train is Hallenskog's only collective offer. The argument for decommissioning from the NSB Railway Station is the new base route model. The requirement of the NSB Railway Station is the minimum turning time with double track and 6 wagons: 10,5 minutes. Decommissioning gives 11 minutes of turning time. Maintenance of the Hallenskog station – when everything else is in line with the NSB Railway Station’s increased time margins relative to today’s train – is 9 minutes. Difference: 1,5 minutes. That's the core of the matter from the NSB Railway Agency. Buskerud County Council – Single Decision in the Main Committee on the Transport Sector 7 February 2012: ‘The Main Committee for Transport requests that we be confirmed as soon as possible that Hallenskog is maintained, at least as a pilot scheme until final flight plan 2014.’;» Route changes 9 December 2012 is the first phase of the introduction of a new base route model for trains, where Asker – Lillestrom has been prioritised. Full-scale deployment takes place from December 2014. From Sunday 7 April 2013 and 16 months forward until December 2014, the Høvik station shall be rebuilt, resulting in a 5 minutes increase in spare time to Stikkestad. So a new schedule should only apply for the period 9 December to 9 April – 4 months. There is a unanimous vote in this case on page 86 of the vote: ‘Under the condition that the maintenance of Hallenskog does not go beyond the base route model, the Committee will ask the Ministry through the NSB to maintain the Hallenskog station.’ I want to assure you, point 1: Maintaining the station is not a great professional risk of weakening the punctuality of trains. I have gone through the matter at the level of track brushes and seconds for braking to the station. Paragraph 2: Maintenance is in line with a unanimous decision in popular forums. Point 3: Remedies cost over 1 million. kr per year and is far from satisfactory. Conclusion: A compromise between local government and state power is to postpone the closure decision until December 2014 when the base route is to be fully implemented. That has to be the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1922	Everyone wants better roads. Everyone wants a better path. Everyone wants better ports. I think we can agree on that. But not everyone has prioritised it. And it showed, among other things: The Bondevik II Government with the Progress Party as a supporting party in the period 2001-2005. Why, then, were the transport projects not brought forward? No, they prioritised tax credits and did not follow up on their own NTP. That's what's the truth. They did not follow up with money in the annual budgets, and the lag grew. That's the result. Railways and roads just got worse and worse. The former representative of the Northern Ireland, Jan Sahl from the Christian People's Party – and another good colleague of the undersigned – said that if we added to the NTP that was created in the period following the Bondevik II government, they were 100 billion. kr air billions. It was good to have these air billions. We announced the journey promise of the times when we had the NTP adopted in 2009. It means, as I said earlier, a formidable increase in relation to the NTP. And we've followed that up. When reference is made to the journey promise of time, enough is enough to show that the government is proposing 37.5 billion. kr to the 2013 transport target. An increase of 3.9 billion. kr from 2012. The activity in the road and rail sectors has never been higher than in 2010–2013. It is being built, and asphalt is being rolled out in many places – in the north as well. Hålogalandsbrua is one of the largest projects in the county and the county for a long time. This is important for business and housing in North Norway. A huge project. The runway aerodrome in Narvik is brought down. There's going to be more activity at Evenes, which is an airport for the future. What's good is that there's targeted bets on walking and cycling routes, which several of our municipalities add up to. Cities take this into account in their transport and spatial plans. In addition, we are also fulfilling what is at least important for the districts, not least in terms of racial protection. There we have fulfilled the billion that there has been so much talk about. No, we build the country bit by bit, we grab hold, and we lead the country in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1935	I thought maybe we were getting close to the end of the debate, but it wasn't long I was there. I record that former Minister of Transport Meltveit Kleppa was here and boasted of the executive power of this government. I want to look at an answer I have received from the department that relates to collective fields. In 2009 we built 11.2 km collective field, in 2010 1.7 km, in 2011 1.6 km, 2012 forecast: 0.3 km. In 2012, we're going to increase it to 1.2 km. Yes, it is good for public transport in this country. Then we get in line much faster with the huge bet from this red-green government. We definitely don't! When I hear the representative Tor-Arne Stroem and others boast that the government is rolling out asphalt – it is not the government that is rolling out asphalt. The government grants $6.8 billion. kr. It's the trucks that roll out asphalt in the form of almost 15 billion. SEK in tolls next year, in addition to SEK 55 billion. in other taxes. It's the drivers that build, it's not this red-green government. It's the drivers that do the whole job. The government comes with crumbs in relation to what the drivers pay in order to build infrastructure in this country. In the case of route ATK, on which Bratli's representative was involved, the Swedish Road Administration says that they need more time to see if it has the desired effect. It's just to turn it off us right away: it's not sure that it's a good solution to reduce the accidents. I would like to challenge the Minister of Transport: I know that you have been at the coffee table of former colleague Terje Riis-Johansen to talk about the challenges for the county councils and the waiver of responsibility from the government when the county road network was transferred to the county municipalities. In Telemark, there are two projects. The tin tunnels were to cost approx. 60 million. I'm going to rust it up. The bill is almost 160 million. kr. It's old latency and legacy that this government should have cleaned up before they transferred it to the county. The second is in Nome Municipality, Kaste–Stoadalen, which is just out of the road system's plans with mass decay that it should have been cleaned up a long time ago. I assume and expect the Minister of Transport to come to the pulpit afterwards – I see that she has signed – and tell how to clean up old estates from this government, which they have just sent to the county councils without making sure that proper money comes to the county councils. In fact, county councils expect to get an answer to how they can at all cope with all the problems that the majority have given them. And to the representative Toppe, who was concerned with road safety: the progress party is concerned with road safety, but instead of reducing the speed that the representative Toppe and the red-green government will do, we do something about the accident sections and make sure that the accidents don't happen. That's the difference between the Progress Party and the Red-Green Government. So we're going to spend 900 million. more on road safety measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1952	We see in the debate today that transportation, and especially roads, is something that engages among politicians and not least among people most. One might then ask yourself why it's like this. If we look at the roads around us, we see that this commitment has not led to budgets where the roads have been prioritised. So what matters most is what becomes the least priority. And here there's a very big difference between word and action. When you try to figure out why it is, there are simply other budget areas that are given priority. One has such a way of budgeting today, not affording. Road construction will be the best measure for increased value creation in business. Road construction will be the best way to have a good rural policy for the whole country. Road construction will be the best response for public health with better road safety for drivers, cyclists and pedestrians. Yes, road construction will be the best measure for a better environment with better accessibility. Then it's not a matter of having money, but it's a matter of affording not to. E134 Haukelivegen is the most trafficked mountain crossing between the East and the West. On that route, there are projects that have been planned for more than 20 years, without results. We see that it can now be resolved on some projects, and for my own part, I am very pleased that parts of the financing of the Stordal Tunnel are within the government budget. But it's still in its place to remember that there's a long way to go before this mountain crossing is of such a standard that we can be satisfied. Fatland slaughterhouse is a beer business that has a lot of transportation in its services. They've done a calculation of how much it costs the company that we don't have a tunnel in Salestown, which would have made it possible to avoid driving down to Røldal. That's $1.7 million. kr saved in diesel, saved in wear, saved in wages, and no benefits for the environment are included. It's a company that could have had a base line of 1.7 million. kr higher. What would this give in winning for the whole country? Then it's not a question of having money, but a question of having money to leave. Holiday-free E39 is a major and important project, for the journey from Kristiansand to Trondheim is the route in Norway that accounts for the absolute largest value creation in the whole country. Good signals are needed for this project to create predictable progress and funding. This signal may well be a quick start of Rogfast.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1965	The Progress Party believes that good transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for a well-functioning economy in which people live, and goods and services can quickly be moved where they are most needed. Good transport solutions are important for Norway — perhaps even more important than in other countries since we are a sparsely populated nation with large distances. I record that the government parties boast of what they have done from road construction. The party of progress is far from satisfied with that effort. It's obviously not the users of the roads either. We want a much more offensive development to meet the business needs for growth and development. Many live along and near county roads, which are far from keeping the required standard. Children and adults depend on running these many times during the day. In order to ensure and improve the promotion of these roads, which are also widely used by vulnerable road users, the Progress Party has set up a pool for the reward of safe school roads. The Progress Party proposes to reduce the unloading charge in order to increase freight traffic from road to keel. The councils were also in their contribution to getting more goods from road to keel. She also talked about that everyone responsible had to contribute to get this done. In my municipality of Karmøy, we have very poor experience of the government's willingness to take responsibility and to follow up on the intention to increase maritime transport. The municipality has combined maritime-related business and has built Husøy into an industrial area. The road to and from the industrial area, which is part of E134, is so narrow on some parts that two major vehicles cannot pass. The road has neither a cycle path nor a walk path, and there is a high risk of accidents. Then I have to add that quite a few of those who work in this industrial area park their car or travel collectively, and then they have to go along this road. It's dark without either the bike path, the walkway or the lighting. This road also hinders the transport of more people by sea, and the poor path hinders the further development and re-establishment of businesses, which, if the conditions were right, would use maritime transport and thus reduce road use. I think it is nice that the Council of State demands that the responsible authorities take their responsibility for getting more goods from road to keel. I therefore expect the Council of State to take its responsibility and ensure that the road to Husøy gets the necessary upgrade. It will also strengthen credibility in relation to the requirement that others responsible assume their responsibilities. There is evidence that the need for a significant upgrade and development of the road network in Norway is required. The Progress Party wants to build the country without charging the drivers for tolls, which appears to be an extra tax on transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1980	It is well known from large and good transportation projects and plans across the country – I was going to say – both to land and to water. In More and Romesdal, where I come from, there are now many measures coming through this budget. The main road, which is a large project, and which is already open, is finished with what needs to be done there, and not least racial protection from Hjartåberga and the Racial Beach, as there is a very strong need to get in place. Furthermore, the Tresfjordbrua–Wågstrandstunnel, which is both a breed protection project and a project that is important for commuters, is involved in raising the large and densely populated areas. We have a far-reaching business life in our country. Goods should be carried here and there – I would say – back and forth. Of course, those who are responsible for sending these goods have a challenge in choosing the road, the track, the sea, etc. The easiest thing to do is to choose the same thing you've always done, but I also think many people are excited about looking at new trends and new opportunities that can be even better than those you have. ‘Snackle’ along the coast is simply the use of the sea route. It is maintenance-free and is ready for use. But nevertheless, there is a grip that needs to be done to make the seaway feel the most attractive option. In this context, I have had a number of coastal consultations with stakeholders from owners of goods, seafarers, pilots and coastal works, shipowners, port managers, etc. Which is very committed to this. This is environmental gains, it is important to renew the fleet, and not least the increased competitiveness that is the theme for us to actually have that offer along the coast. I am proud to say that today we have an active coastal policy and an active coastal minister who sees today's challenges and wants to open doors to new opportunities. The Coastal Minister addresses the enormous opportunities and potential that lie there to get more goods across by sea, and also wants to have a good interaction between different departments linked to these challenges. In order for us to get more goods by sea, the instrument must also be able to build up under this, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to be involved and contribute to. If we are to look more comprehensively at forward-looking solutions for unloading, it must be done in cooperation with the various departments and agencies, but also with local actors. Once again, commend the Minister who has really taken hold. The budget for next year shows the clear direction of this bet, and I think the snowball will just roll on, because beyond winter and spring, there's much more to NTP, loosing selection and short sea shipping strategy, which is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e1991	The representative Schou, who I see is not in the room now, gave me a visit. It is possible that she will accompany her from the office, so I will make her the honour to give her an answer, although I believe the representative Schou himself gave a good illustration of how the Right has winged in the intercity matter in the last six months. The right would have full intercity expansion in the summer of 2025, in the context of the climate agreement. A little later in the summer, the representative Halleraker said that the most important thing was the inner triangle. When the Austrian rapporteurs were at Stortinget and demanded full expansion in 2023, the representative Schou responded yes to it. Afterwards the representative Halleraker was in Bergen's Official Journal and talked about the internal intercity network for the next ten years. So finally, party leader Solberg had to go on the track and say that 2030 is probably the most realistic. The Labour Party has never promised 2023, 2025, 2030 or 2034 for that matter. We want to expand as quickly as possible, in our own development company. But we have always been clear that when we present the new national transport plan, we will come back to the timing and expansion of the intercity network, and we will. From 2001 to 2005, rail investments ranged from 1.3 to 1.4 billion. kr. Only from 2010 to 2013 does the investment budget increase from 3,7 billion to 6,1 billion. kr. I am pleased that the Right has recognised this by going for the government's railway budgets. These are offensive and good budgets. But what I'm responding to is that the Right blames for its own downgraded ambitions on the government, all the time they haven't had more money for the new railroad than the government. The least you can expect is that you have your own, more ambitious alternatives if you think that the government comes with it, doesn't keep track of it. I record that this has not been the case for the Right, and that must mean that they are satisfied with the investment budgets. Finally, we have to pull down to the room. The representative Heimdal was inside the Folloban and connecting the eastern line. The representative has obviously not read the previous budgetary positions of the Transport Committee very carefully. There are no comments where it says that the eastern line should be connected to neither the south nor the north. That being said, it will be necessary gradually, and therefore I am pleased that the Railway Agency is working on establishing a flat-free connection of the eastern line. When the Folloban is finished and the eastern line can be crossed at Ski Station and used by Follobanen, the connection must come. What I am afraid of now is that Inner Eastfold is promoting opposition and postponing the project – at least it will not give the Eastfold commuters a better train offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2004	I take the word because I think I was told a little too little about document 8:5 and want to supplement it a little. I mentioned in the reply to the question of contract strategies, but I believe, of course, that there are other measures that are important in this context in terms of organisation. One is the possibility of reducing the number of toll companies — rationalising toll companies. Making sure that transport modes operate as efficiently as possible is of course important no matter how they are organised. But I still think one of the most important bottlenecks associated with organisation is the planning time. In order to be able to build more coherent and faster, planning is the key itself, and then, of course, all parties to the process need to contribute. As the representatives in the Chamber are familiar with, it will concern both the state, the cities of culture and local democracy. Document 8 is largely about OPS. I'm not dogmatic on OPS. I wish the Right would also have been a little less dogmatic about the OPS, and recognised that the results of the evaluations are quite varied. In fact, you may save a bit of time, but it is not certain that OPS is a prerequisite for doing so. If you save on costs, it's uncertain, and the European Investment Bank's figures show the opposite. So that's how OPS creates big commitments on the budget 30 years in the future. I don't think right-wing party colleagues in the United Kingdom think it's very nice to pay for Tony Blair's exodus when it comes to OPS projects in the early 2000s. It must also be considered when discussing OPS as a method. I would also like to say that, in the case of the Railway Agency, one of the problems with the Railway Works is that the reorganisation that was attempted and that the red-green government stopped, resulted in many rather rounded final packages which, in turn, led to the loss of the Railway Works for skills that it has been difficult to rebuild afterwards. It is clear that that competence is one of the things you need within, among other things. the signalling profession in the years ahead. Then I must be allowed to tell the representative Hoksrud that the 950 km of asphalt we are going to cover is not granted by large projects – they are granted by operation and maintenance. So when the representative Hoksrud is going to compare tolls and government appropriations, he should include a little more than the one he usually includes, because the asphalt is a completely different place – just so it's said. Then the representative Toppe is quite right in saying that road safety is about both road and road users. Most of the road safety measures relating to road users are opposed to the progress being made, and this is regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2019	I was inspired to hear from the Workers' Party's Svein Glüsseth's contributions to the City of the Ship Tunnel, and I hope many in the government's parties listen to Glüsth in terms of his clear and wise opinions on that very project. But back to reality: I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is promoting proposals with both the Right Party and the Advance Party in this matter, and we should like to have had with us the government parties. But together with the Advance Party, we ask the government to initiate the construction of a large City Ship Tunnel as soon as possible, and we ask for funds for shooting already in revised next spring. Together with the Right, we are asking for a case of possible financing of City Ship Tunnel as a OPS project. The Christian People's Party believes that 18 investigations are more than enough. Who can disagree with that? The Christian People's Party believes that the tunnel is a prerequisite for security and security for those passing through the State both in the profession and in leisure – that is all, most important. The tunnel is also important for business interests, which are strongly growing in the region. It's about securing deliveries, shorter transport time – and that's how I could continue. To succeed in getting more goods from land to sea along the west coast, the tunnel is very important. That is why the tunnel is also an environmental project. I read in one of the many reports that by getting more transport from road to sea, the tunnel will save the environment – an environmental saving of up to 90 pst. An additional benefit will be that the world’s first shipbuilding tunnel will attract both national and international tourists — a tourist magnet for the region. The town of the ship's tunnel is a national project, and the tunnel will connect the value-creating West in a new and exciting way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2032	Øyvind Halleraker has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2035	First, to the Minister's invitation: Yes, we would like to be unforgivable in the case of OPS and project financing. We have said several times that we would like to see project financing also under state control, which we had to do on, for example. the railway, where we have proposed our own company – that model. So the Bear Surface challenges me on OPS, and I want to reflect her argument. It is bold to suggest from this pulpit that such an upstanding representative has in fact failed to understand what she has been into. Let me quote the majority of the committee: ‘ OPS projects without State funding as the Right appears to subsidise mean that the projects are financed entirely by tolls’.» [[...]] We've never added up to that. We've never done that. We have never said that – rather, on the contrary: we believe that OPS is a way of financing large projects quickly without tolls, because the uplift will come in many years. That is why we do not have to add money to the projects now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2047	I am not going to make any long speeches in this debate because the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee on Transport and Communications are doing a very good job. But I want to put the spotlight on some of the things that annoy me when it comes to using money in the transport sector. This case is about rv. 3 in Hedmark, which almost two years ago was adorned with a number of colorful elgegors. These artists had been assigned to make, and the viruses were eventually hung up in some trees on a road map on that rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox It was lit up, and this investment is supposed to be close to 2 million. kr have an effect on the driving lists by making them more attentive. This is something I strongly doubt, and I believe that the money could have been spent on other security measures that would really help. At the top of everything, the dedication took place on April 1, and there were a lot of people who thought this was an April joke. But, unfortunately, it wasn't. They're still hanging there, although there's been some kind of outrage on some of them. But this does not stop. Now it is planned to create an elk in acid-resistant steel and place it at the Bråra rest area when upgrading the rest area, which is also along rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox The moose shall be 10,1 metres high and 12,2 metres long. The costs of this have not yet come to light, but when some elk viruses have their high price, a whole moose will cost much more I think. For me, this is completely wrong use of money that could rather have been used for more reasonable road repairs along the way. 3rd@item: inlistbox This is one of Norway’s most heavily hit roads in heavy traffic, as all the accidents show. The road is too narrow and needs a lot of repairs in order to be a good and safe way for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2059	It has been an exciting debate, and it is especially in some things I think we see a movement. In my post, I addressed the need for renewal, and I experience that both the Council of State Arnstad and the representative of Langeland are pointing to something of the same thing. And then I think we've got a renewal of Avinor that we're very pleased with. As a result of the use of tolls, greater flexibility has actually been provided by the State Road Administration and the Directorate-General for Road Transport. They've been able to think of projects over a long period of time and have a necessary room for action. What many people are pointing to today is the situation of the Railway Agency. That applies to funding, and I also believe that it applies to organisation. But I thought it was an exciting signal that the Council of State Arnstad is giving here. Then we discuss three letters: OPS. For me, it is important to find out that OPS is more than funding. It's a way of thinking, but it's also a way of thinking about it that you can get through other tools. The important thing for the Christian People's Party is that we should get greater long-termity in how we build projects. And at least there is a OPS tool, which has given us faster construction, even though the results show that we haven't gotten cheaper construction. But in the projects that have been carried out in Norway, we have got a faster construction. What I think is a problem when we discuss OPS is that it's very special that our Prime Minister answers back that we can't buy a way to pay off – a system that we use in other parts of the transport sector. I did not think that the answer is related to what the government – with the support of the Christian People's Party – does in other areas. It's an area I've missed today, and it's the challenges around our big cities. It's one of the biggest challenges we have. We see that a lot of positive has happened. The Oslo Pacts have been positive. The fact that we got more tools at the same time, both with better access, lower prices of collective supply, restrictions and tolls, has produced results. The Trondheim package – the environmental package there – is also a matter that I think points in a positive direction, but we need far greater ambitions to solve the challenges we see there. So I've also pointed out in the past that I'm disappointed that no more in this room can join in getting a Universal Design Status Report in all transport areas. I would have liked that, it's a wish from the user organizations, and I would have liked to see that the Christian People's Party was not alone here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2074	The different parts have their intrusive angles to find new ways of thinking about traffic. Right-hand recycles old-fashioned suggestions for OPS and thinks they're modern because they refer to them as modern. Once I have the floor, I will take the opportunity to repeat to the representative Halleraker that I have never said that no one in Europe is using OPS. On the other hand, in my post, I said that the Right-Correspondence in Europe has largely left OPS as a method. The Progress Party travels to Albania to find its new ways of thinking about transportation and gets a lot of notice that the roads and methods in Albania are so much better than ours. The fact that the Progress Party travels to one of the poorest countries in Europe – a country of the size of the North Trøndelag, 10 miles wide and 30 miles long – in order to learn is in itself affordable. But they got the right lesson, must be the question. I have also been to Albania this autumn – two months ago. Yes, they build new and modern and fine highways between the largest cities and are building motorways across the country. But what is the reality behind the gloss picture that the Progress Party was so good at marketing in Norwegian newspapers a little earlier this year? The reality is they're only betting on the highways. And for the most part, the investment is loan-funded. The rest of the roads in Albania are in a sad constitution. So bad is that when we read the last number of the road and we, it was like that when the road and we traveled to Albania, they did not insure the rental car against damage to the chassis because the rest of the roads were so incredibly bad there. The maintenance is almost absent. The number of deaths on the roads is extremely high in relation to both the number of inhabitants and the number of cars. In many contexts, the Progress Party claims that they will streamline planning processes and build faster. Will they then use Albania as a model – where they only do an opportunity study, draw a line on the map and start the road construction while detailed planning and construction take place at the same time? This has led to so much overcost that the Albanian government did not know how to cover it, as I was there two months ago. Albania also has trains, but they don't spend money on them. So the top speed -- not the average speed, but the top speed -- on trains in Albania is 25 km / h. Is that a train effort the Progress Party wants? The representatives of the Progress Party in the Transport Committee travelled to Albania on a study trip on behalf of taxpayers. It would have been a good idea if they had at the same time taken the trip across the border to the neighbouring country in the south, Greece. There, you could have studied how irresponsible economic policy is going to turn out, and how it can work when spending too much money in the budgets, and you have to tighten it up. The many Greek unemployed who are 25 pst. in the number – over 50 pst. Young people are unemployed — they know it on their bodies every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2091	Then we got no answer from the representative Halleraker. But we got an answer that we might get an answer later, in a few years. I am a little surprised that the representative Halleraker and Right are so indignant on us – on the red-green ones – who support a comment that the Progress Party took the initiative on. And I repeat: I think you might want to take that discussion with the South so strikingly called Right's fiancée, namely the Advance Party. So a little bit about road safety. I fully agree with the representative Toppe that the Right and the Advance Party are little concerned with prevention. One selects the populist variant. Then the Progress Party goes much further than the Right. But it's scary to see that you have so much against the ATK model – average measurement – that clearly turns out to be very effective because there are very few license brackets. Yes, when a reader reads the comments, in particular from the Progress Party, one may be alarmed by less: Dangerous monitoring, artificially low speed limits, and when one goes to the Alcohol Commentary, the Progress Party is not even in the long term to impose requirements on alcohol in public transport. Then there is not so long way to the gas station and liquor sales, as some from the Progress Party suggested a few years ago. This is a dangerous policy from the Right, and in particular from the Progress Party. So very quickly to the representative Vosskensen, who is in some local matters in East Agder. Yes, the previous government did not ensure that Arendal-Tvedestrand was on NTP. I think even they took it out. The party of progress was a party of support for the previous government. We got it back in. We have provided a toboggan division, so that we are secure planning materials and progress in the matter. I'm optimistic about NTP both in terms of Arendal-Tvedestrand and Rv. 9th@item: inlistbox As regards the road between Tvedestrand and Risør, it should not be given priority — it is in good enough condition, but the Winter Cross should be given priority. It's actually about prioritizing as well. One cannot get everything, even if one wants as much as possible to his own state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2104	Repeatedly, the Centre's representatives try to create an image of a great deal of traffic. Overfill is a word that goes over and over again. To try to create a belief in a big stake, as is done on the Storting today, and otherwise when the need arises, fall on their own point of view. For those who go into the depths of the theme, it's not hard to prove the opposite. Inge Hoff, who is the country's only professor of road construction, says the following about transport and road maintenance: «Norwegian road maintenance is like painting a rat wooden wall». And then not only is the maintenance bad, where one lies behind with tens of billions of dollars, but the road foundations are so bad that they are called rotten wooden walls, which the government is still trying to measure as closely as possible. The party wants it to be the opposite of today's government: To build the country and license 11.6 billion. in addition to the government's roadside framework, plus ensuring future financing through the establishment of a 300-billion road fund. kr annually, to be used for transportation. Let's talk about bets! We also experience the right from the position representatives about projects that are being taken down by the Right and the Progress Party. All right. If the project was as important as an attempt to give an impression of why the project was not started? Well, here's going to be a house credit for a project that others have to pay, i.e. the billistrat. And when these don't have to pay, the project will be stopped. There isn't a project going to be started without it's a splice layer. The split is that others take the cost. The only thing that is missing now is that ordinary maintenance is also financed by tolls. The aftermath is enormous, especially on a regional level, and regions are surprised that they got the extinct old roads in captivity trying to legitimize the county, but it needs more than that. I myself come from More and Romesdal, and now one has discovered that there are so much rust damage on municipal bridges in the municipality of Herey, which is the center of the maritime hub and asks for large sums to the state register every year, that they fear that they will have to be shut down in the near future. The county has no plans and no possibilities to finance, repair or renew them. Finally, a few words about the Stadtunnel – this amazing project that has been drilled to squares many times. Get the project started and end with the distributions, while as politicians we still have trust! So finally some words the representative Tor-Arne Stroem's posts. He held a very good post where the truth came for a day. He said we're building the country, and we're building the roads a bit by bit. Yes, that's exactly what the truth is – a bit too little over the country!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2126	This is a very important debate because the infrastructure in Norway is really about the blood vessels that make society work. People should get to and from work, to and from kindergarten, to and from leisure activities. There is no doubt that there has been an increase in infrastructure appropriations. The progress party has not voted against a single crown of what has been granted. The question is, could we do more? That is what the Progress Party believes. We see that road and rail investment in the state budget is 18 billion. kr. The Progress Party will increase this significantly, both by increasing the maintenance appropriations and not least by establishing an investment company – in line with Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen’s proposal in 2008 – which builds roads and railways, and in the long term can enter into contracts and make this rational, just as the Stortinget wants with Avinor and Aerodromes. I don't understand why it's problematic for road and rail. We think we can invest at least 5 billion. kr more for the next year by having this model. But this is obviously irresponsible, we hear from the representative Bratli and others, because then there will be pressure in the Norwegian economy. Then it could be like in Spain. All right. To give a perspective: Today, the SSB has provided new estimates for investment on Norwegian pedestal. The estimate increases investment expectations next year by 3.8 billion. kr – not compared to this year, but compared to the estimate they made three months ago. Total investment on Norwegian pedestal next year will be SEK 27.2 billion. kr more than this year. That's 50 pst. more than the total road and rail investment we are going to make next year. So just the increase in oil investment is going to be 50 pst. higher than total road and rail investment in the State budget. It says a little about the perspectives here, and how important the oil industry is that things are going well in Norway, but also talking about the huge growth in transport investment from the red-greens being small compared to what is actually happening out there. Under the red-green, total road investment, if you add up every year, has been 27.5 billion. kr above the level of the last year of Bondevik. But in the same period, we've saved over 3 200 billion. kr more in the oil fund. So we're going to spend $27.5 billion. NOK more on Norwegian roads in eight years, but we save NOK 3,200. kr more abroad. So someone here is complaining: no, we can't have OPS projects with tolls and loan money to the roads. But this government has made loans for road development into a field of sports, in which they do it very well. Because as we increase a little bit in the state budget, we're increasing a lot in toll revenue. And what is it tolls represent? Well, they represent loan-funded roads -- and so we're going to this country, which is saving 3 200 billion. kr abroad, and borrow money abroad to build roads financed by tolls. The difference is that we save on 1 pst. interest and we're going to borrow to 2.5 pst. interest, and that's not a good economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2143	For me as a representative from Troms County, this is a sad day when it comes to transportation. The Government Parties adopt a budget that slows down both the development and maintenance of the main shipping years in the State and elsewhere throughout Northern Norway. As a consequence of the government's policy, the county council, which is currently examining its budget, must cut the transport budget by over 100 million. kr – also there with the Workers' Party in the management. In Troms we see the consequences of government and the red-green policy. The consequence is that semi-empty trailers are still driven from the coast into the main lanes, because the roads do not withstand the load of full trailers. The consequence is poor ferry connections, which lead to late delivery of fish to the markets, and we get a loss of quality in Norwegian fish. The consequence is travel businesses that bow down because tourists don't realize that it's actually a highway and not a herb trail that goes to the tourist resorts. There is a stop in industrial establishments because there is no infrastructure needed to get the supplies needed. Today's government is running a transport policy where they slowly choke the whole of North Norway. All development stops. The region of North Norway is more than one third of the country's area, and the government refers to the region as the future. That's where the resources we're going to live from exist. And then they grant approx. 3 pst. of the transport budget for the future region! I think that's what most of it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2154	the expectations and aspirations of road development, race safety, tunnels, bridges, footpaths, double tracks, airports, ports, fairways, etc. is almost unlimited. Tolls have thus arisen as an additional form of financing. In many places, there is a great local commitment to be involved, and this allows for the forced development of a number of projects. So the point of tolls is not to bother the drivers, but to be able to build. Most drivers see the benefits of this, although they may think it's a bit annoying and ideally would have run for free. The removal of all toll stations is highest on the priority list of the Progress Party in road policy. First priority, therefore, is not of benefit to road safety, which does not contribute to the development of district and community communities, which are not at the top of the business directory, which is definitely not an additional use of oil money for investment in future value creation, but which only allows Norwegian drivers to spend a few more dollars on other private consumption, and perhaps annoy themselves a little less. It is clear that this is where the Progress Party believes our biggest societal challenge lies. This picture is further reinforced with regard to the private economy of the drivers when they are to reduce the petrol and diesel taxes, the one-off tax, etc. So we're talking about tens of billions of dollars in total, and that's money that's going to be spent before we've built a single meter with a new road. To the debate on bureaucracy: If the representative Fredriksen had heard after I had made my previous post, he would have heard that I said there was an agreement that the administration should be effective, focus on good services and get the most out of the money, which I am sure they do too. Then I talked about the cuts that the Progress Party will now do in, among other things. Ministry of Transport and the Coastal Works. Then the representative Fredriksen draws a comparison with public employees in the Nordic sector – that there are so many fewer there. Perhaps Fredriksen can also tell us how much use is made of consultants – who are much more expensive to use than permanent employees – how different they have organized it in countries, privatised, AS-modified, etc. To Denmark: Comparing the need for, for example, a plan for transport in Norway with a country of the size of Finnmark. Apparently, the representative Schou liked that I was close to the Right and the Advance Party, and she thought that the word "promise" is a foreign word for the youth. It is possible that it is in her environment, but there are actually quite a few who are engaged today, and I think most of the young people are seeing the engagement that is going on between the Progress Party and the Right. To the representative Iversen, who tells us that the government parties are now suffocating North Norway: Yes, then the representative should look at the Progress Party in their draft budget. Then you can start talking about who it is that will choke North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2169	It looks as if it helped get a little more temperature in the room, because now the temperature of the debate got a little more speed. And that might be a little bit neat. But when the accusations aren't true, it's not very good. With regard to the ICE problem, some people say that the right has obviously engaged. No, the right has not engaged, but there was a discussion in the climate agreement whether we could find a time to see when it would have been completed. In particular, the Workers' Party opposed this. What they've said after, is that yes, it's important to start with the intercity expansion, but as Halleraker's representative has said, it's much more important to get to internal intercity than to have to go on for extremely many years to get it all done. But planning should be done at the same time, and I think the Council of State has also said that, I think to remember. The OPS has been a repeater throughout the day, and the Council of State said that she should wish the Right was not so dogmatic in that matter. We're not. I'm glad to say we're not -- maybe we're in line with the Council of State in that context. We see a number of benefits of OPS, but we're not saying that absolutely everything is top of OPS. If one picks the good things about OPS, I think one has achieved a lot. When it comes to making a commitment for many years, yes, but you do, no matter when you're going to build a road. The way in which a building with a project finance or with a single decision on the annual budget shall also be maintained for 20, 30, 40, 50 years, perhaps. When the county councils build a road, they borrow money. It also has to be paid down over many years, so that's not the big difference there. But the difference is that a sheep with powers that are much more creative, that can contribute to even better solutions, i.e. an innovative solution, and that's what we've said is the big advantage. So it was Freddy de Ruiter, who again attacks us because we're so indignant that we've joined the Progress Party for an opinion. Indignant – I don’t know if that’s the right word, but we don’t like it in such a meeting and in documents made by committees in the national Parliament spreading falsehoods – in written form. The fact that things are said on the edge of this hall, we have experienced many times. But if you write it, I don't think it's very good. There is no secret that there is disagreement between the Advance Party and the Right regarding the use of tolls. We do not disagree very much with the views of the Labour Party and the Government on the use of tolls, but when we go along with the Advance Party in such an opinion – and at the same time, those who have started most toll projects, as far as we can remember – we do not appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2180	Anne Marit Bjørnflaten has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2183	First to the representative Iversen: Ask people in Tromsø about who's wrong that we don't get a new access to Tromsø, new E8, I don't think they're going to point to the government. Then they will point to the dark blue Right and Advance Party Town Council, which has put an end to a road that has been planned for 24 years – the main gateway to the main and largest city in North Norway – and it is a responsibility that the Right and Advance Party must take alone. I fully agree with Mr Hareide: what is involved in is predictable funding, that it is more important than the financing issue itself. To the right: we got the answer, here you do the math without a host. Not only is it so that the Right cannot prove that all OPS projects are to have government funding, nor are we told how much the bill is going to be. We don't know until many years. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for what has been my very last budget debate in Stortinget. It has been entertaining — like all other budget debates. And to all who will continue: Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2194	The President thank you for your congratulations. Mr Schou has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2200	I record that the representative Meltveit Kleppa is trying to talk down on the reward scheme that the Right took the initiative on. To that it is to say that the reward scheme is the result of the climate agreement. We in the Right initiated it, we wanted to double it in the climate agreement. The government wouldn't. We continued to want to increase the reward scheme in the climate agreement, the last. Neither was it the government's initiative. And we've increased by 200 million. kr in the budget for the following year. Then honour the one to be honored. Anyway, it might be nice to remember this. The representative, Gorm Kjernli, is talking about modern railway. For 2012, the new Folloban is not connected to 60,000 people from the eastern line, Inner Eastfold. Forgetting to connect to a line doesn't call me modern railway construction. Several representatives have pointed to the intercity triangle and the solution to the Right. I think I've answered it earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2209	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2212	I record that the representative Bratli was engaged in Albania-tours. As far as I know, her trip was also paid by the taxpayers, because it was well in the OSCE context. I also believe that the representative Bratli should actually go back and see what the representative Hoksrud has said when he has spoken. I have said that they have built motorway networks at a pace we can only dream about in Norway. So I've said that they have social challenges, and I've said that there's a lot of bad way there, but they're doing something completely different than what we're doing in Norway. Norway spends 16 years building 78 km through Vestfold, and there are six different 78 km projects. In Albania they drive at 120 km/h and build it in three years. So we're going to spend 16 years -- it could be 17 years. Then I don't have to travel to Greece. It's a socialist government, and I don't want to travel to socialist governments necessarily to learn more. In Albania they're not so very happy in that way of ruling, so I actually think it's better to travel there. There's someone who's busy doing things rationally and efficiently, and there's nothing run on the shakes of socialists. So... I'm done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2223	Unfortunately, speaking time is out. It was quickly perceived.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2226	I'm drawing again because I'm from More and Romsdal, so I can't let such a debate go by without saying anything about ferries, ferries, and the supply regime around this. We find that new ferries are available, but they cannot be used on the routes because they are larger and wider than the berths where they are to be added. These are things that it's not thought about. Therefore, it seems that you have not thought about the new ferries, which are often wider and have a completely different unloading system, adding the quay to the distance they are intended to. There are also high upgrade costs, and they appear to exist between the chairs. In too many contexts, we see that the upgrade cost has not been added to the offer, but there are new, great ferries going on the fjord. This also demonstrates that the knowledge of the state road system's people is simply too poor when it comes to supply. We often see that old, out-of-court ferries are being deployed, and they win the offer because they are favorable in price. They are written down and they can be added to the offer project at an reasonable price. So quality, universal design, and these things that we know are important, are simply not prioritised. It's too weak in today's society that we can't get a universal design on the ferries, as we would have had if the ferries were new. We also have to get ferries that go all day. Such a society as we see today, where one shuts down and does not have access to the outside world from around the clock. 24 in the night until 6:00 in the morning, is too bad. We also have to make sure that we have a modern ticketing system that allows us to have a continuous traffic over the spring and so that the ferry doesn't have to go at a slow speed because one is going to ticket. The journeys get bigger and bigger, and when you're going to ticket 120 cars in 15 minutes, it turns out that this is going to be challenging. A quick and simple cooling system should be few in place. So finally some words about the mainland project from the island of Hareid, Herøy and Ulstein, which is part of the maritime cluster. Here one today sees a take-up of modern technology, as we have done in the North Sea now under the oil age. This is a way of solving a holiday stretch – with a continental connection that belongs to the future. We should support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2244	Now I have the floor for the second time. I'm not going to try to extend the debate, but at least that's one thing I also know for sure, and that's that this is my last transport debate on the budget. It's always exciting to be in the hall when you're discussing transportation, because there's a lot of people who are engaged in the issues it brings. I can assure the representative Oskar Grimstad that when, as I said, we build bit by bit, we build big pieces. There are differences between large pieces and small pieces that the previous government, Bondevik II, built. You can also see from the appropriations that things are happening in this country in many areas when it comes to transportation, and I was in on that in my previous post. Then I must also give a little visit to the representative Iversen of the Progress Party. I think it's quite unique that you can perform to say what you say from the pulpit, that we're suffocating North Norway. In the case of North Norway and the effort this government has made, especially in relation to what is now happening in the northern regions, it's not possible to build this overnight or within one day, that is, it's a long-term project. I think you're going to take a walk and look at what's going on. Maybe it's also important that you talk to the industry as well. Both the North Norway bench, the Northern Bench and – I was saying – the individuals among us have met the industry in the north in terms of those who are operating. Then I will add the visit to, among other things. Weiforum Nord and the machine contractors. They say there's a lot of things happening, we have a lot of work. I also think there are more people who speak a different language than what we do – not just dialects, but a different language. So I think you should be a little careful when you go up to this pulpit and say that's what it looks like. In addition, I have said earlier here from the pulpit that I have driven Mo in Rana-Bodø, tour-return. I live in Mo in Rana. There's a lot happening on the roads there. It's Salt Package 2, it's the whole project, it's building bridges, etc. in the Salt area and elsewhere. In addition, I drove the distance from my home location Mo in Rana to Oslo, and Oslo-Mo in Rana too. There's an incredible amount of happening on the roadside there. I was about to say that I was a bit delayed to Oslo because of all the road work. I thought it was very good, because I actually got to see how much work you have to do. So I think it's important to bear in mind that you have to be out a little bit and look at how it works in practice, and then talk to the workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2257	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2260	It is nice that the representative Stroem is satisfied. However, the representative Sønsterud claimed that Norway could not be compared with Sweden, Finland and Denmark in terms of consulting activities etc. In fact, we're having a consultant's party in Norway. We spend hundreds of millions of dollars on consultants. The policy of the Progress Party is that we want to build more in the north, we want to strengthen road safety, we want to strengthen race safety, highways and highways far more than the government does. How is this going to suffocate a part of the country, it's going to be a little bit hard to understand? I actually thought it would solve a lot of problems for that part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2267	The representative, Freddy de Ruiter, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2270	The representative Myraune said that there was not so much difference in building the road in the usual way and with OPS in terms of financing and costs. It is reasonably well documented that OPS is more expensive. At least we have not received any evidence of the opposite. I believe that if I had been – as was said earlier today – the fiance of the Right, that is, the Advance Party, I would have been frustrated and indignant by getting statements from the representative Myraune that one of these dangers with falsehoods in the form of this remark to which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have joined. We have not received any answer, either from the Right Party or the Christian People's Party, here in the Chamber today that they have put money into this. But we might get that answer in a few years. So we keep our words, and it makes sense to say so. But the fiance must be a little disappointed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2278	I register again that representatives from the government parties are doing what I choose to call a discharge. The representative Bjørnflate referred to the entryway of Tromsø. There was no way of how important this road was – main roadways, entryways, etc. Then it is strange that she does not want to finance this now, but believes that the municipality of Tromsø will take responsibility for it. It's certainly not a municipal road. This is common in North Norway. One thing is to drive E6 from Nordland to Oslo, but if you drive northward, the picture is different. If you talk to people from the north, the picture is different.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2283	There has been an interesting debate to follow, and I am glad that I got the opportunity to say some words at the very end. Let me say it so that the representatives of the Progress Party in the Chamber have made a lot of good contributions. Special thanks to Jan Henrik Fredriksen and Hanne C. S. Iversen, who has been considerable votes from the north and has taken care of the Nordic interests. There is no doubt that the losers in this budget are North Norway. If I'm going to rank them on the winning column, to use that expression, Trom's dissidently is at the top, unfortunately. There's a lot that's missing. Nordnesfjellet and Sørkjosfjellet have been mentioned, and in August 2011 the then Minister for Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in Kåfjord, Troms, was shown and interviewed that they were ready to start when it came to the Nordnesfjellet, and it was to enter the state budget. It didn't happen. The same thing with the Sørkjo mountain, it didn't happen, or the Langesund link, etc., so that Troms is the loser, I don't think anyone is in any doubt about. It also suggested that the media were read after the state budget had been presented. It was black on white in all newspapers in the north, and was also said on radio and TV, that Troms and Nord-Norway were the tapers of the budget for transport. We're taking that with us, also into the campaign. In the case of the Nordnes mountain and the Sørkjos mountain, the representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen was up on the platform and said it was not ready to start expanding. I'm not going to use an unparliamentary expression, but it's total bomb and explanation. So to the E8 from Nordkjosbotn into Tromsø, which there has been a big debate about whether tolls should be financed. The representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten was up here on the pulpit and said that if one had asked the people in Tromsø if one would have a toll-funded road, they would have said yes. The people of Tromsø are asked. They were asked through the municipal elections. So the bourgeois parties opted for one to build part of a new route to Tromsø, and it was not to be financed. It was clear when the voters went to the vaults, and the voters were crystal clear. They wanted to remove the red ones that were sitting and falling. They wanted a civil majority in the City Council. That's what they've got, and the civilians are on their word. We're going to have a new road, but the drivers are not going to pay it in terms of tolls. So I think Anne Marit Bjørnface should look back a little bit and see what was clear already when one went to the municipal elections two years ago. I would like to say that I am pleased that the Progress Party prioritises it in its alternative state budget. The new E8 into Tromsø shall be built without the drivers bleeding again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2296	Gorm Kjernli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2299	The representative Schou did not hear, or would not hear, what I said about the connection of the Eastern Line, and that is why I have to repeat it. It'll be necessary eventually. That is why I am pleased that the Railway Agency is now working out a planless connection of the Eastern Line that can be built after the Folloban has finished. The first few years after the completion of the Folloban, it will be fully possible to cross the Ski Station, and the Railway Station has already outlined a route where trains from the Eastern Line cross the station and enter the new tunnel. Then connection must come gradually. My fear is that the municipalities of Inner Eastfold are now coming up with objections – well supported by the representative Schou. This may contribute to a postponement of Follobanen. They will take that responsibility, but it will not improve the situation for the Eastfold commuters. Then you can ask yourself whether it is I or the representative of Schou who have to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2306	There is one of the debates here today on the modernisation of the railways and the modernisation of transport policy. Now we have understood that the Progress Party is going to Albania and getting its ‘modernisation’ policy on transport. There the train goes for 20 km/h, but they don't care about trains. So then the question goes to the former state councils of Hareide and Ingerd Schou who were privatizing the railway, and who created trouble for us when we were going to bet more on the railway. What is your ideal? If it were to be credible, it had to be Switzerland. Switzerland is probably the best in the world on trains. What kind of modern solutions does Switzerland have? Well, they actually have state tracks, like Norway. It's the best train country in the world. So they're going to "modernize" the railway. Well, "modernize," what does that mean? Then we can travel to Sweden. There they have the modernized railway. Or to England, where they "modernized" the railway. What happened? It went on raw! They had to go back on it. The Swedes are going to have to do the same thing because it doesn't work. If you go into the statistics and read what happened in 2010 with this "modern" scheme, what did you have to do? Well, you had to run to the railway museum in Gävle and pick up a plough because they didn't have anyone to take responsibility for themselves – a museum spade broke them bananas with! This is'modern rail', people. And what happened to train traffic? Yes, 45 000 hours of delay in passenger traffic, even more hours of delay in freight traffic – 90 000. 29,000 passenger trains were cancelled. This is "modern," peoples. It's "modern" to have delays, it's "modern" to have to use museum records, it's "modern" to make sure freight trains are standing, it's so "modern" that England that tried this is probably never going to do it again, because it went so bad. France, one of the other major rail countries, will now merge the NSB and the Railway Agency, which is their modernisation. The new government colleagues I hope will never join the government, they will modernise in the Swedish and English way. We must tell the Norwegian people that they want to be a disaster. We need to invest in the Swiss organisation of the railways, and then we move on to the track we are on today, and away from the policy that Hareide, Halleraker and others pursued in 2005. It would have been a disaster in Norway too, if that policy had continued. See Sweden, those who want a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2315	The President is in doubt about all the statements and concepts used by the representative are parliamentary. The next speaker is the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås, who has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2320	One would think that December night had completely taken over when one heard the descriptions from my colleagues from North Norway. It seems like there's nothing happening. That's obviously not right. The Helgelands package is in the state budget with phase Nord. Salt Package 1 is complete, and one is in the process of Salt Package 2. It's a well-appointed town package in Bodø. There is a start-up grant for E6 Hamarøy, we have Hålogalandsbrua, Skibotn at E8 and E6 in Alta, to mention some projects. It's high activity. But then one doesn't get the way to Tromsø on the E8, because they've said no toll financing. The same is true of Harstad, and then one last in line – this is the case. There is a high level of activity to which the representative Stroem has referred. Road Forum Nord says that there is a lot of activity in the industry, and one has challenges in following up capacity, and we're picking up entrepreneurs from abroad. And that's right and important when we want to build on, like we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2327	The next speaker is Susanne Bratli, who gets the floor for a three-minute speech because she is the case rapporteur for case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2330	It's interesting to hear the discussion about North Norway and the lack of investment in North Norway. Now I think the representative of Sjelmo Nordås had a good listing that shows that there is no lack of investment in North Norway. But the reality is that there had been further investment in North Norway had not been such that in Tromsø it had been said no to bombing financing. Troms would have been the budget winner in North Norway if it hadn't been the case that the thumb had been turned down for the construction of E8. It's been a 24 year fight. It's a dangerous and highly trafficked route we're talking about. You should also get a new road and a new line, and a mile with a mid pull, and it was almost so that you could put the spade in the ground. Then there was a municipal election, and then you turned around. It was going to be a spice layer where the state was going in with 50 pst. of the costs, and it is not very common in these days on the bombing project – 550 million. kr. So the Right in Tromsø let the Press of the Advance Party say no tolls. Then it is that Troms is the state of the country that has fewer bombing projects. What's a little bit worrying about this is that if you don't turn around in Tromsø, it can actually be that E8 goes completely out of national transport plan, and it will take many years before you get another chance. The NHO, the Federation of Industry and many others in Tromsø are raging against the City Council. And we're going to read this from the outside in the newspapers about North Norway. The City Council also believes that a blue government after the elections should be able to release tolls. We who have heard the representative Øyvind Halleraker talk about this, don't think it's very likely. So finally a few words about Albania. My point of getting more relationships about Albania is that you can't go somewhere and say that this is so good, so we're going to do that, because things have a consequence – things are related. Albania needs to be discussed in a broader context, because the focus on how the system works needs to be important. And so the system works like that, you spend all the money on motorways and you don't have any money left on other things – there's no money left on the railways and no money left on the maintenance. So that means you don't get any better roads anywhere else, and that means you have a lot of traffic killers. Things are related to everything. We must also be able to see that from the point of view of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2345	Hallgeir H. Langeland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2348	‘Now make me a way like e so good that we run too fast. So we made rules and put up signs. But it doesn't work. Therefore we make artificial hoops in the way, in order to force us sea tea to strangle on the speed. [[...]] We have to talk about freedom, we have to build artificial hoops in the way." This is a poem by Gunnar M. Roalkvam, and it seems to me that I fit well in the debate we have had today on the limitations of freedom in transport. We have to do something sometimes to make people run legally, and so that they don't get killed in traffic. Therefore, restrictions are necessary, including: speed limits and, inter alia, measurements of speed, which means that young people do not lose their lives in traffic. I hope I'm a little thoughtful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2398	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2412	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2421	Funding for the planned development of fv. 33 on the route Skreifjella-Totenvika in the eastern Toten municipality is an important matter for Uppland. The road is of great importance to industry, industry and the population of the Gjøvik and Toten regions and is the main link between Oslo and the Gardermoen for this part of the county. It also acts as a means of relief for E6 and Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox Today's road is narrow and curved, and on parts of the route is recommended speed down to 30 km/h. It has many off-roads and settlements that are close to the road with direct access, and it lacks a pedestrian and cycle path. The average annual daily traffic in 2011 was approx. 1200 vehicles and approx. 14 pst. of which heavy traffic was heavy traffic. With an average toll rate of 30 kr per passage, it is expected that annual traffic will increase to approximately 1490 vehicles in 2015. On parts of this route there is a high risk of race, and therefore the 930-metre Falcon Tunnel must be built – mainly by state means. The residents along this road can now look forward to better conditions for those who cycle and walk, with a new walk and cycle path from Fjellhaug to Totenvika Church, a stretch of approx. 5.4 km. Noise protection measures are to be implemented for about 60 dwellings, and I would like to stress that the aim is to build a paved road shaped in relation to the cultural landscape through which the road passes. Upland County and the Eastern Toten Municipality have reached an agreement on a partial toll financing scheme for the improvement of this road section. Of the surrounding municipalities, Gjøvik municipality supports this. Vestre Toten has taken the matter into account, while the municipality of Eidsvoll does not join the proposal. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, Right, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party nevertheless consider that there is sufficient local political support for the project and would advise the Stortingen to agree that the toll company is allowed to raise loans and to levy tolls for the financing of this development, and that the Ministry of Transport is authorised to conclude an agreement with the toll company in order to lay down detailed rules for the financing mechanism. The Progress Party does not support this and has its own proposal in the case. They have also submitted their firm comments as they have in this type of case, and will certainly explain this. The development of fv. 33 between Skreifjella and Totenvika means safer traffic, more racist roads, increased accessibility, less noise for residents, better conditions for vulnerable road users, and it has a positive impact on the environment. I believe this is a good day for those who live in this area, for business and for everyone who travels this way. I present with this the majority's position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2449	After many toll-related debates in Stortinget and after more than six hours of budget debate, I think it is well known what the Progress Party thinks about toll-financing, so I will do this briefly. This is an important project for the users of fv. 33, formerly known as rv. Thirty-three. It's an important project for those who live along the road. That is why, of course, the Progress Party is to implement the action, but we are also – of course – against this being financed by tolls. We're especially opposed to it given that this is a former highway, which is now exported to the county. We have an alternative funding proposal, which I am addressing here, and which is in the vote. I also refer to our comments in the setting and can repeat that with this project the toll bill is approaching, as all toll trailers in this room have so eagerly ensured to continue to the drivers during this period, 40 billion. kr – 40 br. kr!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2458	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2461	I don't live at Toten, sail if someone might occasionally get hurt to believe it. I don't live that far away, but I think there are many people who live and work in the Gjøvik-Toten area who are happy today. Not least I think there are many trailer drivers running this route, who are satisfied that a tunnel is now coming through Skreifjella, and that it will finally come into place. Those who haven't driven the route may be a little surprised that a race protection tunnel is being built on the flatlands of Mjösa, but a small drive shows more than enough need to repair the road. It is narrow, fluctuated and rascal, and on some sections the speed limit is down to 30 km/h. Everyone realizes that it will have a special meaning for those who use the road as part of their working day, whether it's like commuters, or it's one of the hundreds of trailers that drive to and from Gjøvik and Raufoss. Raufoss has one of Norway's largest industrial parks. They produce high-tech products for demanding customers around the world. They depend on moving their products out quickly and efficiently to their customers, and fv. 33 is the shortest way for them into the world. The development of fv. 33 is just one of many projects that the Center Party and the Red-Green Government have started. I want to mention some of the things that have happened in Uppland: the road is open, the E16 File Mountain is in full swing, the E16 south of Bakn is in progress, rv. 4 at Reinsvoll is immediately finished, and the state budget has announced rv. 4 Lie south in few minutes. The E6 in Øyer is almost done, and we know that Frya–Sjoa has been notified before Christmas. Fv. 34 is also soon finished, as a great project at Randsfjorden, and now comes fv. 33 Skreifjella. In addition, a number of kilometres of walking and cycling roads are built. I just have to be allowed to mention this in this case, because I didn't take the floor in the debate that was earlier today, where the opposition feverishly tried to black paint and create a story that doesn't happen much on the road in Norway. So one doesn't have to be more than a sharp driver on some trips around Uppland to realize that things are happening. I am simply excited and proud to have to wait for the green light on a road project. I have more than once miscalculated the time because I have not come to realize that I had to take a detour because of a road project. I realized that, earlier today, more had happened here as well. But it hasn't done anything. It's not just me that's excited that something's happening. Let's keep going on like that. I had an interesting conversation with a person in the State Road Administration earlier this fall. He said he had been in the building since the 1970s, but had never experienced the husband of what he had experienced with this government. It is often wise to listen to experienced people – not least to those who have been in the building for a while. In any case, I wish everyone who works in the State Road Service to be happy with the work on the development of the fv. 33 and all the other projects. I would also like to congratulate those who receive the tenders in the course of the development. It is not always a thinker so carefully that such state projects as road development actually have a real impact on employment, both in the public and private sectors. The state road system has a lot to do on the planning page, and the private sector receives tenders — both large and small. This is probably a good day for road users in Norway. With the Center Party and the red-green in the driver's seat there will be several good days ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2482	I am pleased that the Stortinget today endorses the government's proposal on partial toll financing for the expansion of Fv. 33 between Skreifjella and Totenvika in Uppland. The opinion states that there is an agreement throughout the Committee that the project should be conducted on a case-by-case basis. 33 is an important upgrading of the road, and the Committee is also pleased that the road is to be made safer for pedestrians and cyclists by establishing a 5.4 km walk and cycle path. This means that it will give those living along this road a better everyday life as many homes are now being protected from noise and getting safer runs. The Government's proposal on partial toll financing of the project is supported by all parties, except the Progress Party. Providing a clear signal to finance this project will mean that fv. 33 becomes more roadworthy and makes it more accessible. The road also receives a continuous speed limit with no reductions going all the way down to 30 km/h, which today's road has. I'm very happy that the road is also being raceproof. This was a very rough road, and there are not so many roads in the East. But this is one of the roads that are in great need of racial protection measures. Therefore, the project is also allocated 178 million. kr in government funds. The grant shall result in the construction of the Falcon Tunnel beyond the razed section. The upgrading of the road is important for the local population, but it is also important for local business. This is the main link to Oslo and the Gardermo for this part of Uppland. Much of the industry in the Gjøvik region also uses this road towards Oslo instead of rv. 4, e.g. due to the large slope of the Lygna. The road that is now being upgraded is a county municipal road, and that is why Uppland County Municipality is the road owner. The request for a toll to which Stortinget now agrees has been prepared by the county council. I believe that the Stortinget should support the type of local initiative where there is a sensible road project. The state is also involved in contributing grants so that the road becomes racist, and in this respect I refer to the entire committee, including the members of the Progress Party, agree that the project in question is a wise project and should be implemented, although there may be disagreement about funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2515	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2524	In this proposal for a representative, the Progress Party has proposed postponing the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. The Committee has also received its opinion on the matter from the Ministry of Justice and Defence, dated 19 June of this year. Furthermore, the Committee refers to the previous treatment of Prop by Stortinget. 49 L for 2010–2011, Changes in the Econom Act and the Criminal Procedures Act etc. – implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Right, share the starting point of the rapporteurs that individual freedom and public intervention in private life must be minimised. At the same time, this majority sees the current situation of police use of traffic data as unsustainable, taking into account both privacy considerations and the effective fight against crime. This is not a good enough practice, and it has been, in Norway. As the draft representative is formulated, it is difficult to see this as anything but a rematch. The majority, the Right and the Workers' Party, would stress that the treatment of Prop. 49 L for 2010-2011 was about making changes to Norwegian legislation on the storage and deletion of electronic traffic data. The Decision also provided for the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. The majority believe that the suspension of the EU data retention directive revision should not have an impact on this matter. The European Commission’s proposal for revision of the Data Storage Directive is deferred and appears to be submitted at the earliest by the end of 2013. No new elements have emerged in this case that suggest that implementation should be postponed. On the contrary, it is important that legislation is implemented as quickly as possible, because it will strengthen the fight against serious crime and strengthen privacy. It is positive that the Progress Party does not disagree with the importance of traffic data in combating and resolving serious crime. Traffic data from electronic communications are from being stored for commercial reasons — invoicing — for social reasons — crime prevention. In the past, traffic data have in some cases been stored without legal support, often for a short time and sometimes longer than permitted. The regulatory framework agreed by the parties will strengthen privacy in this and in other areas. In order to safeguard privacy, strict data collection, retention and deletion rules should be introduced. Examples of this are six months of retention, the police being required to have the right of access to data, high penalties and erasure. At the same time, we assume that the Data Protection Authority strengthens its control activities with echo operators. The storage of historical traffic data does not involve monitoring. The storage of historical traffic data is carried out by most echo operators today for commercial reasons, such as billing. The law on so-called communication control — space monitoring and television surveillance — has not been amended. The terrorist attacks on 22 July 2011 as well as the disappearance and killing of a young woman in Oslo in the autumn of 2012 are two issues where access on electronic tracks has been crucial for police investigation. The majority therefore propose that the document be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2552	The rapporteur, Mr Schou, has given a good account of the way in which the Data Storage Directive is being implemented and the majority's position on this matter. The Working Party believes, like the Right, that the reasons for implementation have not changed and that the Directive remains equally relevant. Proposalers want to postpone the implementation of the Data Storage Directive indefinitely because they believe there are too many uncertainties related to the Directive. Firstly, it is important to point out that conditions pointed to by the proposers were not clarified either when the Stortinget decided to implement the Directive. This applies, inter alia, to: the results of the EU's audit and implementation costs, which were also discussed by the case-rapporteur. Nevertheless, the bulk of the clear view was that it was necessary to implement the Directive in order to ensure police access to traffic data, and this need, of course, has not changed since then. As the rapporteur said, the EU is clear that it is not necessary to assess whether the directive should actually be maintained. The review will take place with a view to improving the directive, which we are also in favour of. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State points out that the Postal and Telecommunications Authority is involved in the processing of data storage regulations, and we are pleased to note that there is good cooperation between the PT and the police to find good solutions to practical issues raised in the hearing. Finally, the minority again claims that the Data Storage Directive opens for monitoring. The Labour Party believes that this is as little the case today as when we had the last debate in Stortinget. Monitoring involves active and continuous monitoring of what someone is doing. The size decision has nothing to do with monitoring. Initially, the police do not have access to any data, and they will only have access to selected data under certain conditions. On this basis, the Party agrees that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2561	The Labour Party and the Right will subject the entire Norwegian population to continuous surveillance by introducing the EU Data Storage Directive in Norway. The state will use your telecommunications company to record every time you communicate with your children, your spouse, your friends, your business relationships, your clients, your doctor, your political beliefs and all the others. Despite the fact that Norway is a functioning democracy, we should not, however, blindly believe that Norwegian authorities cannot abuse power. Germany has, through history, had very poor data monitoring experience. The same goes for the Czech Republic and Romania. These countries have therefore rejected the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in their respective constitutional courts and have deleted all data. I believe that Norway does not need to get any Norwegian Stasi or a Securitate until you realize that the Data Storage Directive is wrong. There are a number of unresolved issues related to the Data Storage Directive that require further deferrals. When we wrote the proposal for a representative, it stated that the law would enter into force on 1 January 2013, but in the opinion of the Council of State to the Committee, it now stated that adopted changes to the Criminal Procedures Act and the Economs Act will not enter into force until 2013 – this is due to unresolved issues relating to safety requirements and other technical requirements, as well as the challenges of clarifying cost conditions. It is also not registered that the regulation has been completed. Nor has the EU presented its proposal for revision of the Data Storage Directive, which was due to be submitted in 2012. The Data Storage Directive is still not incorporated into the EEA Agreement because Iceland has effectively parked the Directive. In addition, there are unresolved issues related to both storage – purely technical – and transparency clarifications. If a subscriber is given access to user data, it means that the subscriber in the household is given access to the data of other users in the household. In this case, this access could be used by spouses who monitor their spouse’s contact with, for example: crisis centres. It is important to postpone the implementation of the Directive until all details are clear, primarily because all details need to be in place to ensure the best possible protection of the privacy of the user. The Internet has so far been an important channel for spreading the idea of freedom and democracy, which is very positive. This week, however, the International Telecommunication Union, the ITU, has a large conference in Dubai where, among other things, shall be discussed on proposals from Russia and the Arab world which will in practice involve attempts at regulatory control over the Internet. It is also important to have the details in place to avoid distortions of competition between actors who choose different solutions, which can be avoided if an industry standard can be established. I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation, which is related to the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. I am delighted to make a joint proposal, from these parties and the Progress Party, to postpone the implementation of the Data Storage Directive indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2576	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2579	I want to be very short, because the representative Fredriksen has now done well and taken up the proposal from us in the minority. This is a kind of a highlight of the big debate we had before, so I understand that some people are low and will not spend much time on this, including myself. Just a small cross of thought: what is happening is that the Right Party and the Labour Party have joined forces in this matter to implement a directive that was very much opposed. We saw the same thing with the temporary agency directive, where one also went with the Right to do this. Now it is accepted by us who are in the government – it is not, but there is something about the EEA Agreement, which is constantly attacking Norway with what I would call the import of Right Policy. That is why it is very good when the national meeting of the Labour Party decides not to implement the fourth EU postal directive, for example. I think we need to have more autonomy in relation to the EU in several issues that emerge. Now, probably, the fourth railway directive is coming. It is the same where – the import of right-wing policies, where one wants to privatise the railway, and where the NSB probably has to go down in order to gain competition on the track – cf. the debate we had on the transport budget. Of course, we support the proposal for a postponement, but we do not spend any more time at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2588	The centre party refers to the comments we have made on this matter, and to the comments we had during the processing of the data storage directive. We are still fully committed to them. In addition to that, I do not intend to contribute to any long debate in the matter, but just explain that it is where we stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2593	The Data Storage Directive fundamentally violates the principle that you should not be monitored if you have not done anything unlawful and reflects the state of law. The Directive introduces a new principle that everyone should be monitored for safety reasons at all times. The left's ideal of free, independent individuals can never be combined with a monitoring society. A party that has more power for the individual cannot be in favour of the Data Storage Directive, in any form whatsoever. The Data Storage Directive, if implemented, with the attitudes of this government, will open up a breach of the privacy we have not seen so far. In this case, I am a little pleased with the government's inability to implement it. The Data Storage Directive has created headaches in both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport. Unfortunately, the size has decided that the contested directive should enter into force, but the government has not been able to implement it. The reason for this is, among other things: that there has been no agreement as to who will take the bill. A selection set up by the Ministry of Transport recommended that the State cover most of the costs, but the cost of the directive is still unclear. In March of this year, it became clear that the Directive was being postponed indefinitely. The plan was that it should be introduced this summer, but it was too early. At that time the Directive was already a few months behind schedule. Now the Ministry of Transport does not see that the directive can come into force before the end of 2013, but they themselves cannot – fortunately – promise it. The directive is very controversial, as it allows information on where, how and who you are communicating with to be stored for six months. The traffic data to be stored is very sensitive and the storage regime that the Data Protection Authority has decided to use makes it very expensive. It was the Workers' Party and the Right that secured a majority on the Stortingen in order to introduce the Data Storage Directive. However, whether the Directive will survive a new government next harvest is up to the voters. The left is of the opinion that we cannot fail privacy, the liberal rule of law or the idea of free citizens. Therefore, the Left is the safest choice for those who believe that the Data Storage Directive must be stopped after the choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2604	I refer you to the proposal of the representative to postpone the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. I share the view of the majority of the Committee that the EU postponement of the Data Storage Directive does not affect our implementation of the Directive. Furthermore, I believe that the questions raised by the minority against the directive in the proposal for a representative have been answered in my letter of 19 June this year to the Committee on Transport and Communications. I can't see that there have been new moments in the case that warrant a postponement of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. On the contrary, I think it is more important than ever to put the directive in place. The implementation of this Directive will provide the police with the necessary tools to create a safer society. Here I would like to mention specifically the work against terrorism and the fight against child abuse. The implementation of the Directive is urgent, especially with regard to the storage of IP addresses. Today, the Data Protection Authority requires all Internet providers to delete traffic data related to IP addresses after 21 days. The extension from three weeks to six months is very important for police investigation. In recent years, access to data has been crucial for the police in several serious cases. For example, I can. mention the NOKAS case, the handkerchief case and the Baneheia case. Traffic data has of course also been very important both to confirm and disclaim theories in the Breivik case. The reason why the rules on data storage adopted by the Stortinget last year have not yet entered into force is that it is important to establish rules that ensure a good and well-founded balance between privacy and crime prevention. The size imposed strict security requirements for the storage of data. It has been a long and demanding process to develop detailed rules for this. The Data Protection Authority has developed concessions for the storage of providers and FAD is working on changes to the personal data regulation. Furthermore, I am informed that the Ministry of Transport will soon approve the Post and Telecommunications Authority's regulation on data storage. The cost question is challenging and has taken some time to assess. I believe it is necessary to find solutions that meet both the needs of the police for this type of data and the conditions of competition of the eco-business operators. The choice of the cost model has therefore not yet been clarified, but will be submitted to the Stortinget in the form of a law as soon as possible. It is now very uncertain when it is possible to expect a revision of the Data Storage Directive in the EU. The treatment is now linked to the negotiations on proposals for new data protection legislation in the EU. The revision proposal will not be submitted until there is agreement on the data protection legislation. The timing of this processing is an additional argument not to delay our implementation of legislation implementing the Data Storage Directive. Finally, I can inform you that the Czech Republic and Romania have also taken the necessary national measures to introduce the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2623	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2637	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2644	The issue we have for us to deal with now is a new one for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a very important proposal, because, as we know in this Chamber, where we have discussed these issues relatively often – and we are going to debate them further later today and in the budget that will be discussed next week – we are in a situation where 99 pst. by Norwegian enterprises are so-called SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises. The term is used for enterprises with fewer than 100 employees. The same companies that we're talking about here represent more than 50 pst. of turnover and employment in Norway. That's why it's very important that we focus a lot on this part of business, because this is also a vulnerable part. Very many of these companies have very few employees – approx. 54 pst. of which one to four have employees. It goes without saying that in particular in the field of form fields and reporting, there is a high level of vulnerability to resources. It is quite obvious that large, heavy enterprises with many employees have their own departments that are doing this. They can operate tax planning with often a completely different economy and support functions around them than these SMEs can be able to have. That is why it is important that we, as a crowd, ensure that we put in place a regulatory framework and a framework that will enable these companies to develop well. The proposal promoted by the representatives of the Right is very important in this regard and, as I said, we are also going to debate a similar proposal later today. I just want to go into some of the suggestions that lie here, as I expect that the position itself is going to produce its view of why they are also going to oppose this time. What is significant in these matters is that no matter how many good proposals the opposition is promoting – and we have made an incredible number of good proposals – all these proposals have in common is that the government parties vote down everything, no matter how good they are. But, fortunately, when it goes a little while and the government parties sometimes get to think about it, they come back with the same proposals that the opposition has previously promoted. There is mention here of a reduction in capital requirements, which the opposition promoted a number of times before the government found out that it was a good idea. The audit obligation is another matter. Let's hope that we give new, good advice to the Minister of Food and Trade, so that he can come back to the Storting at another time and present it as his own good ideas. We must vote in favour of it, even if it comes from others. I'll go into a couple of these suggestions. The proposed TAX FUNN being treated is very important. It is also mentioned in the budgeting of several parties. This is important because even the companies know best where they are most likely to go, and how to use a little of their own resources to further develop the company to become more solid, secure jobs and move on in competition. Therefore, it is important to remove the ceiling on the hourly rate for how much you can spend in the month related to the TaxFUNN. I hope that the Council of State will take this with me, so that we can get a case on this later. Hospitation schemes related to schools are also important, in particular vocational schools out into enterprises. It is important to put in place good frameworks there, so that we get the dynamic and good development between school and business and can move on in these fields. Businesses benefit from it to both recruit and train people, but school students also benefit greatly from seeing how business works out there. I think we have to assume that very much of what is in many schools, not necessarily the best machine and the most up-to-date equipment they can use at any time. There are many good suggestions here. I hope that the government parties will turn and vote in favour, but at least all the proposals included in the setting have been included.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2657	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2660	There are a lot of suggestions here, as has been said, and I'm not going to go into all of the proposals, because everyone is really well-informed by the minister and at the trial. The overarching picture is that with the exception of social tax cuts, the Right, who is the proposer, will have more of the government's policy, they will strengthen him and even the city above him, and that at a very large number of points. New suggestions and ideas I see very little. In the summary and in the introduction to this Document 8, there is something that I can't find in the notes or in any of the suggestions. In many ways, there is a symbol of the lines of business policy. A quotation from the summary proposal providers is that: «adaptations to the Working Environment Act are needed to meet both the needs of workers and businesses, inter alia, in order to create more flexible rotational arrangements». Well, it is possible that the proposers think so, but it is not the only concrete proposal among the 24 proposals that go on the road – talk, but not concrete proposals or action. Now it is after all right's trademark, you ask me. But what changes in the turn might still be a little nice to know a little bit more about. Furthermore, one can read that the money spent on the State budget needs to be invested more than at present for the future, and it is best done by investing in research, education, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax incentives. I'll come back to the unsocial treasure trove. But the rest of it's very good. There has never been any further research on the state budget. The learning density is increased. Never has there been any more use in transportation. I must remind you that in this Chamber, in 2005, the Right’s representatives called our transport effort ‘air money’ – the increase of 2 billion. kr per year for 10 years was ‘air money’. No, it wasn't. This is not only met, it is overfilled. So for growth-promoting tax havens – that's the new Right word for dynamic tax policy, I think – to reduce taxes so that businesses can create more, and, in sum, to contribute more to society. But not one country - not one - has succeeded in this dynamic tax policy. It's a failure. In order to finance schools, health, police and hospitals, one must actually have a tax access to the community. If you want the Norwegian model, you have to have funding for it, and it means a large public sector that is free of charge for everyone. In other Document 8, inter alia: one that we are going to treat later today, and another that we have had recently, we have been asking for our own groceries because one wants to see the health. That's a point of view I have a very strong sense of. Our demands have been made, among other things: in the field of travel, industry and industrial policy. But if you want to see the soundness, you can do Document 8 suggestions at express speed, if all possible details. Only today we handle 24 suggestions here plus 30 suggestions in another case, and we also have another Document 8. Take the tax policy: shouldn't we see the health there too? Here you have to look at the corporate tax burden. How many companies actually have a deficit today? Are they going to go bankrupt? Don't you think it's coming to new companies? Most of Norway's businesses are doing well. Norway is like an island in Europe. We are usually in agreement on this in the field of industrial policy, and so is the Stortinget. The strange wealth tax is to be removed, says both the Right and the Advance Party, without telling the whole thing how to do it. I agree that the wealth tax isn't perfect, he can look a little skeptical. As a result, this government has also reduced its wealth tax time and time again by increasing its base deduction. But to be honest, it must be the case that he beats unsocially and errors out of the newer date than 2009, which one goes back to. Fair enough that our neighboring countries don't have taxes on wealth, but they have other taxes. See Sweden: They have almost double the employer’s fee for what we have in Norway. Is that what we want? And many countries have much, much higher property tax than what we have in Norway. Is that what we want? Once again, it is important to look at your health.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2701	I understand that the previous speaker is a bit tired and tired of the opposition constantly promoting suggestions in this room, which the position needs to be involved in dealing with and talking about. We address issues that are important for Norwegian business, and these include: the small and medium-sized enterprises. When Ingrid Heggø talks about «healing» and that we should not make individual proposals, because we are also proposing to get reports on whole things, it is of course because nothing is always happening in that area either. Let me also brief her on the term ‘growth-promoting tax relief’, which she believes is an invention from the Right Laboratory to find new names for the property tax. No, she can go to her State Council, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. He launched this in connection with the 2001 action rule. This is about how to use the surplus – the extra money that was taken into account in the economy – from what was then called the oil fund. A third was to be used for knowledge, research and education, a third for infrastructure, which in common languages can mean both roads in districts and public transport in more densely populated areas, and a third for growth-enhancing tax reliefs. It wasn't a Right Invention. It was an invention of – possibly, I don't know – Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. The point is that the extra money has not been spent that way. They have been smeared thinly, and therefore it has become smaller in some of the central areas, and the government knows that well. This is not a proposal to say that Norway is going badly, to paint a scare image of what it is like. That's exactly what Hegley says; a lot works perfectly well. But I react a little to the fact that she has not perceived the two-track economy in this country, where the oil and gas industry is going brilliantly, while part of the mainland industry is struggling significantly with a very high cost level – up to 60 pst. higher than our trading partners and with falling markets in Europe. I think you have to assume that it is very tiring. In the last few days, we have seen that the crown is record strong and has not been so strong since 1985. It is clear that overall this may require a good part of what can be done by compensatory measures for enterprises. That is exactly why I think that these proposals we have brought up here are excellent. Now I've spent a lot of time talking about Heggø's posts, but I think it was so much on the side of what these 24 good suggestions were about, that I found the opportunity to respond to it. We will probably have an opportunity to discuss this in one more round, when the next matter comes. Let me do a couple of things here: Some of the important things are, for example: the inheritance fee. Many small businesses are struggling with the generational shifts and not least with the fact that in family businesses there are also passive owners with small incomes, who have to pay taxes on wealth each year, even if they do not get any dividends at all. I also want to meet the position on our proposal for a low-threshold innovation stock exchange, on which the position writes positive comments. I think that's nice. I think it's a very good measure, if we could get it started with a kind of state stamp on – not a full funding, but a stamp that you approve of something here. You can be happy about it or not, but there are a lot of small capitalists in this country, who don't dare enter single businesses, if they get a request for it. If they had got a kind of quality stamp, a kind of assessment that this is something that works, I think a lot of people would take their money out of the bank -- where they stand at a couple of percent interest rates -- or from elsewhere to go in and join the value creation and bet on this. I want to talk strongly about an innovation stock exchange, especially since it's actually almost the only area where the position looks positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2720	I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are an important part of Norwegian business, and therefore we need to focus on identifying schemes that allow established small enterprises to further develop and establish new enterprises. The Storting Communication Tools for Growth presents key elements of a policy for small and medium-sized enterprises. When I travel around and talk to small and medium-sized enterprises, there are a lot of people who point out that the good advice and the financial support schemes they have received through Innovation Norway and SIVA, maybe what has made them clear about a knuckle, and that they have had the opportunity to develop further. I'd like to draw up a cluster program. They are also important for small and medium-sized enterprises. Large enterprises like to have resources to work with the university and research community, but they don't have the small enterprises, but if one gets to a cluster collaboration where large and small enterprises work together with the environment of competence, the small enterprises get both the transfer of skills and networks, which are very important for their professional development, and which allows them to benefit from modern, new knowledge, which is also important for small and medium-sized enterprises. I also want to include the incubator program. The incubator program has been shown to be effective. Many experience suggests that incubator programmes allow enterprises that are newly established to cope with the difficult times, the four–five–six first difficult years, better than those that live outside an incubator. It is linked to the fact that entrepreneurs are very often based on specific competence in one area, and then they lack competence in economics and marketing. Through such a community, they gain greater competence and can manage and also be able to overcome the difficult knee, which is often called the bloodbath. Another thing that is often drawn up when we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises is access to skilled labour, not least when it comes to vocational education. There, I believe in politics, the education system, and not least the business community itself have a job to do in making vocational education more recognised and giving it higher performance, so that we recruit skilled people for vocational education. One of the things that has been done by the government when it comes to vocational education is the commitment to teacher 2 settings. The fact that people can come from business, for example. right from the North Sea and in order to hold a lecture for a student who is required to take a mechanical course, is clearly motivating and raises the prestige of the subject. I want to think about what's going on in the public sector. Public sector is also a major customer for small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, however, there has been a development that makes small and medium-sized enterprises feel to some extent that they do not always reach. This is probably related to the fact that we have had a large degree of centralisation of purchasing functions, which has led to larger units when we buy, and this very often leads to small and medium-sized enterprises feeling neglected and squandered, not least in the districts. When we are now working on making public purchases innovative, it is important that in this context we stress that public procurement should also have room for small and medium-sized enterprises. Otherwise, I would like to mention that facilitating the serious nature of the industry is very important for businesses to manage – including small and medium-sized enterprises. An industry that has been plagued by social dumping is the cleaning industry. The fact that we have now put in place an authorisation system that allows us to get rid of the unprofessional businesses is actually very important for the serious small and medium-sized enterprises in that industry to be able to achieve growth conditions. This shows that it is not only tax-free but also necessary legislation on industrial cleanliness that is important for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2741	The centre party has a high level of involvement for small and medium-sized enterprises, for entrepreneurs and for small business managers around the country who create values, wealth and well-being in the big society. Therefore, the Centre Party is also concerned that industry should have good framework conditions in Norway. In 2012, Norway was ranked number six out of a total of 183 countries on the World Bank’s ‘Doing Business’ index for 2012. This study ranks countries according to how regulation and framework conditions affect the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises. This government shows the will for forward-looking efforts and organisation for those who create values in our country – business throughout the country – while at the same time facilitating good welfare around. Let me mention that there has never been as much interest in transportation as it is now. This is very important for business – we had a long debate on transport here earlier today. The government has increased the level of the current national transport plan by 100 billion. kr compared to the previous NTP, which was strongly warned against in 2005. We do this at the same time as we conduct a responsible policy, which is not least important for our export companies. The centre party is committed to simplifying everyday life for small businesses, and we are therefore satisfied that the red-green government has set clear targets for the simplification work. The objective is for business to be reduced by 10 billion. kr by the end of 2015. This objective was referred to by the NHO Chief as being very good and ambitious. Simplification is well under way, and the reduction is currently approximately 3 billion. kr. Another area that is important is the availability of capital at an early stage of business development. The government is constantly working to facilitate this. In Report. Art. No. 22 for 2011–2012, Growth tools – on Innovation Norway and SIVA SF, mention important business initiatives. This Communication underlines the objective of facilitating the growth and development of business throughout the country. The centre party is concerned with simplifying the service portfolio of Innovation Norway and simplifying the application process, and we are positive about the process that has now started. Such simplification has been wanted by business for a long time, and it is important that we see good results from it. In Report. Art. No. 22 the government announced several measures to facilitate access to capital for enterprises at an early stage, and the creation of new nationwide seed funds was announced. In the 2012 revised state budget, funds were put in place for State participation in two new funds to be approved by ESA. The purpose of the state's participation in the new funds is to mobilise capital for early stage enterprises and to build and further develop good management environments. The centre party is taking a positive look at this bet. Research and development are important to facilitate innovation in enterprises. A number of smaller enterprises have used the TAX FUNN scheme in this work. The centre party is concerned that the TaxFUNN should be an important tool for such a bet. Recruitment and competence are important for the competitiveness of enterprises. For this reason, education policy is important, and it is important to see industrial policy and education policy in a common context. The centre party is concerned that the status and performance of the professional subjects must be increased. It is vital for business that more good skilled workers are recruited, including as part of the success of more young people in their own educational career. In this context, the central party looks forward to the new high-level report on higher education, which is now under work. It is particularly important that we, who are engaged in industrial development and policy, take an active part in these debates. Furthermore, I refer to the full response of the Council of State, which he made to each point in the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2760	Small and medium-sized enterprises are important for the value creation and well-being of this country, and better organisation of these enterprises will bring great returns in terms of jobs, value creation and well-being. I therefore think it is a pity that the government parties once again vote against a proposal from the opposition which would improve the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. It should be in the interest of all parties to have a well-established and thorough policy on the framework conditions for these companies. Then it is sad to hear the negative statement to the representative Heggo. The goal of the Christian People's Party is for Norway to be one of the world's most innovative countries. New and established small businesses are central — without them stopping Norway. It is in the small and medium-sized enterprises that a large part of the values of our country are created. Three-quarters of Norwegian enterprises are owned by families. For family businesses, the inheritance fee is a stumbling block that makes many unable to allow the next generation to take over. On average, where new enterprises create two jobs, studies by the European Commission show that successful ownership shifts in small enterprises lead to an average of five jobs being continued. Therefore, the focus on flexible ownership change is so important for the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party therefore wants payment of the inheritance fee to be postponed for at least 10 years at the time of generation change. If the holding continues to operate, one tenth of the fee shall be cancelled each year. If the holding continues to operate for at least 10 years, no inheritance tax will be paid. The Christian People's Party believes this will be good business policy, good social economy and good district policy. Small businesses account for more than half of the value creation in Norwegian business. Small businesses are innovative and adaptable, but it is demanding for them to survive and grow. Five years after start-up is only 30 pst. by the enterprises still active. This was the background for the small company propeller for approx. Two years ago. It had four main requirements for governments: less square work, smarter taxes, simpler everyday life and smarter interaction between public and business. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should improve the conditions for small businesses, so that value creation, jobs and well-being are ensured in the future. Reduction of taxes on wealth is also important. The property tax weakens private, active ownership, dampens family holdings for capital, and hampers entrepreneurial activity and innovation. In no country does taxes on wealth amount to as low a level of wealth, and no country has as poor protection of working capital as Norway. That is why the Christian People's Party, like the LO, the League of Bonds, the NHO and the entire opposition, want the wealth tax on working capital to be removed. I have got the impression that the Minister of Industry also wants to remove the property tax on working capital. It would have been interesting to have it confirmed or cancelled by the Council of State even when he will have the final word.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2777	The left shares the views of the proposers on the need for a new grant for small and medium-sized enterprises. If there is a group that has absolutely been kept out of the slogan ‘All shall be included’, it is the smallest enterprises. An example of this is social schemes for self-employed persons. While there are no limits to the extent to which the welfare state is destroyed by a small adjustment in the sickness pay scheme for ordinary workers, government and government parties are completely uninterested in strengthening the scheme for self-employed workers, which has a much lower compensation than normal workers. The tax rules have repeatedly been exacerbated, and entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs are most often met with scepticism and suspicion rather than with the pat on their shoulders that they really deserve. A strong improvement in the framework conditions for Norwegian business in general and the smallest enterprises in particular is one of the main priorities of the 2013 Alternative State Budget of the Left. Norway needs a new industrial policy, which stimulates more innovation and which facilitates entrepreneurs and the diversity of value-creating and innovative enterprises across the country. Unfortunately, this is an area where Norway lags behind. Unfortunately, the last seven years have been the years of lost opportunities. Norway is in a 17th place in Europe in innovation when 34 countries are compared on how innovative we are in the ‘Innovation Union Scoreboard’ survey. In comparison, our neighbouring countries are Sweden, Denmark and Finland in second, third and fifth places, respectively. Norway is referred to as a moderate innovator, while our neighbouring country is innovation leaders. Norway is particularly weak in terms of innovation results and innovators. A diverse and innovative business life is essential for Norway to succeed in an increasingly globalised economy. Public sector and public welfare depend entirely on the value creation of private businesses, and on the willingness of initiative-rich people to take a significant risk and turn ideas into actions, products and services. Therefore, the starting point for the Left's enterprise policy is a good general framework for all parts of the business community combined with targeted efforts for the development of more and better knowledge-based enterprises. The left wants a much closer link between national and local businesses and important educational environments. In addition, the left will invest much more in research and innovation and will better facilitate those who will create a job for themselves and others. This is done through a wide range of instruments, through targeted improvements and simplifications in the tax system, through a peak of public tools, through better social arrangements for entrepreneurs and self-employed workers, and through a strong commitment to research and innovation over the state budget. The left is skeptical about the problem of bigoting messages. That is why we are not voting in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The work on staging messages is often tying up large resources in the civil service. It causes a time-consuming dispute between departments and usually ends in at least a common multiple and has more expression of being a discussion task than a concrete plan to solve challenges or problems. A typical example of this is the Government's distribution message, which should have been the answer to all criticisms from the opposition about the lack of poverty and the lack of willingness to vote in favour of good opposition proposals that were generally agreed upon. When the communication was finally presented, including it, it was exposed to concrete content or to new policies. The distribution message is also the rule confirming the exemption, not vice versa. Instead of new discussions, we need concrete results, concrete improvements, more innovative businesses and a basic attitude that rewards those who want to bet and who succeed. The left is ready to take a leading role in this important work after the next elections. Finally, I would like to point out that the Left will vote in favour of the proposal No. 2-21. I refer to the Left's proposal No. 25 to 38, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2800	The representative Solli has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2803	The government is very concerned that SMEs have good and predictable framework conditions for creating values and jobs. The proposal for a representative mentions many different proposals and issues that have an impact on smaller enterprises. The proposals are very broad. On 26 March, the government launched the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Strategy, which underlines the importance of smaller enterprises: 99,5 pst. Norwegian enterprises employ fewer than 100 people. Small and medium-sized enterprises are present throughout the country and in most industries. 1.1 million people are employed in small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for almost two thirds of all employees in the private sector. Small and medium-sized enterprises are more important for value creation in Norway than in many other OECD countries. In the government’s strategy, 64 different measures were launched to improve the daily lives of small businesses. At the centre of the strategy is government objectives and ambitions for business simplification. A lot has already been done here. We have set up a separate secretariat for simplification work. We've created a website, simpler rules.no, for recording for simplification. We have introduced an exception to the audit obligation for small enterprises. We have reduced the capital requirement from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000 for an AS, in addition to a number of other simplification measures, not least digitisation measures. These are changes that work. Recent figures from the Statistical Centre show that, to date, nearly 43 000 new enterprises have been registered this year, an increase of 12pst. from the corresponding period last year. In particular, the growth of a limited liability company is strong. So far this year the growth is 62 pst. compared to the corresponding period last year. The growth in the number of start-ups is a clear sign that Norway is a good country to operate in, a good country to start a business. In addition, we are continuing to focus on fiscal FUNN, the Enterprise PhD scheme, employee-driven innovation, the BlA programme, on Young Entrepreneurship and on female entrepreneurship. These are mechanisms that we know provide more business start-ups, more innovation and, in the long term, a more varied and robust business. The proposals contained in the draft representative are under the responsibility of several departments. I want to address some issues that the representatives address. Representatives are asking the government to present its own large-scale communication on the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of the fact that half a year ago the government presented its own SME strategy, the government has no plans to submit a wholesale notification of this during this period. For us, it is much more important to get concrete proposals out to small and medium-sized enterprises, to make policy work and facilitate businesses, and, of course, to participate in debates with the opposition parties in the United Kingdom on important issues in many different contexts when the framework conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned. Representatives do not propose unexpected changes in tax policy. The government is concerned that industry should have good framework conditions in Norway. There are many factors relevant to the framework conditions, such as political stability, infrastructure, technology, access to skilled labour and trust between social partners. The tax burden on businesses and owners must be assessed in the light of the extent to which enterprises can benefit from publicly funded welfare benefits from the sickness, leave and dismissal of employees, etc. In the World Bank ‘Doing Business’ Index for 2012, which ranks countries according to how regulations and framework conditions affect the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises, Norway is ranked as No. 6 out of a total of 183 countries. Of course, it's possible to add a few more steps to that table. We're going to have that as an ambition, but I doubt that the opposition's tax proposal brings us a single place on the list. Representatives also ask for progress in the simplification of business. In this context, I refer to the work we are doing now to implement concrete simplifications. Once again, this government is the first to ever have a numerically fixed measure of how much we're going to simplify for – 10 billion. kr by 2016 the annual savings shall be. Another theme addressed by proposers is innovation. Innovation is an important prerequisite both for finding the smart solutions that make the use of resources more efficient and for developing new technologies. But here too, the opposition is turning into open doors. Already in our time, the government provided the big news about Innovation Norway and SIVA, and many of the measures proposed by the opposition are already in the process of being implemented. We accept good proposals from the opposition, but most of the proposals that should be implemented are already in the process of being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2832	I am not surprised that the Council of State believes that most of what should be done is about to be done. It has been expressed by the Council of State in the past. I fully understand that he believes this about his own policy. I want to ask the Council of State about something he himself has mentioned and wrote about that he will implement, namely seed funds. Governments have notified, inter alia: in Meld. St. 22 for 2011–2012, Growth Tools – on Innovation Norway and SIVASF, that six new seed funds will be created, with a capital of 500 million. kr – it says correctly «until». Now we know that next year's budget does not contain any new funds. Two have been established, which are in the process of being established or established. That is, according to this, we are missing four. My question to the Council of State is, When can we expect to see a case related to these funds? There is nothing in the answer given to the committee attached to the vote on when one can expect this, just a reference to the two that have already been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2841	This is just one of the areas where I believe that the opposition proposal opens open doors. Under VII it says: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of new capital into seed funds.» What the representative says is already government policy. We have said in the Innovation Norway message that we will bring up to six new seed funds, and the money for two has already been allocated. However, it takes time to establish them, partly because there are ratification mechanisms in the EEA system, and because we need to find private partners that have a profile and a capital supply to enable the funds to be established. Therefore, the two, to which money has already been allocated, are not yet established, but we will provide for new appropriations on an ongoing basis, so that we can put in place as many of the six funds as possible, as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2853	Let me first commend the Council of State that he has responded in detail to all the proposals, even though he does not think it was necessary to promote them. After all, we're happy about that. In the first case that was up, it was about property taxes. In 2011, the Council of State said, in connection with a question from the Economic and Social Committee on the taxes on wealth: ‘I think it is obvious to everyone that, at some point in the future, there will have to be a smoother taxation of different assets’. I see that the argument is now a lot different from the Council of State. It's mostly about how difficult it is to separate, for example. working capital and other types of capital. But it could be interesting to hear, when we soon go into the election campaign – in case we get over Christmas – if the Council of State in January this year is going to mean about the same thing. This was about the time of the NHO annual conference, if I don't remember completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2865	I still think that we need to get a more equal tax on various property items. But I also said at the time that there are some assumptions for such a tax conversion. One is that we need to maintain the income of school, care for the elderly, health, etc., i.e. not to reduce the total tax level. We have to maintain the distribution effects, and we have to make sure that no one becomes zero tax collectors. These assumptions were not well received by the opposition at the time. The right-wing leader, Erna Solberg, was probably the one who first said it was completely out of date with that kind of conversion – the property tax was going to go away. Now I see correctly that the right, having seen the distribution effects of a total removal of the property tax, has got a little cold feet, but I see that here you are again occupied by at least removing it on working capital. I doubt that distinction, because even a bank deposit will, sooner or later, be used in the company, and thus work productively. So it can be difficult to draw a distinction between what is working and not working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2872	There is a lot that is good in Norway, including in the field of industrial activities. It was just supposed to be missing. However, there is no doubt that Norway is lagging behind in being innovative and investing in innovation. It's worrying because we're dependent on an innovative business in the future. This is partly due to the fact that the instrument is not well equipped. Only approx. half of the aid granted by Innovation Norway goes to innovative projects. There is almost no commitment to industrial research — in reality, a cut in the next year’s budget — and there is little willingness to exploit the potential of innovative public procurement. Does this concern the Council of State, and in that case what will he do to make Norwegian small businesses more innovative? And further, what will he do to unlock the potential of innovative public procurement?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2881	To respond to the last one, we are going to create our own strategy for innovation in public procurement. It's clear that there's a huge potential in the big purchases that the government is making, which I think amounts to over 300 billion. kr a year, by bringing in not only finished shelf products at the lowest price possible, but also in the case of new ways of doing things. Here we are somewhat opposed to European legislation and competition law, so we have to try to find out something about it. But I fully agree: here we should contribute to more innovation. When Innovation Norway has different schemes that work differently innovatively, it is because it manages schemes from many departments for different purposes. There are also more district-specific schemes. It is to make them also seem innovative, but they also have other purposes in mind. It is appropriate that it be within the same organisation, it is unbureaucratic and simple, but we should help ensure that everyone is as innovative as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2888	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2893	I am very pleased that the representative fleet says that Norway is doing so well. I want to remember that and bring it with me. But I'm not sorry that we have a lot of representative proposals. I think it is very pleasant and interesting to discuss business policy – I can do it every day. So I also thought it was very fun to be able to stand here and show all the good results that the government has. But my point was that one has to decide if one should have a detached single proposal, or whether one should have a health plan. Then I have to point out that what Andersen Eide says here, that all the proposals are rejected, are wrong. They are not rejected, nor are they downgraded. They will be appended to the protocol. And then I also want to link some points to the TaxFUNN scheme. It's a very good arrangement. I think that everyone in this room is some of the people that we're still going to have this system. She's unbureaucratic and okay. So why don't we agree with all the suggestions to change it is a question that often comes up. Firstly, we have already changed a part of it, with a simplified application form, and that is among other things. specified what to do to get these R & D resources. That's good. But I'm absolutely sure they're right, those who say we can simplify and do this even better. The tax FUNN scheme was evaluated in 2007 by the SSE, State Financial Management Centre. It mainly showed that the scheme has worked very well after the purpose. However, in order to improve financial management and control, it was proposed to introduce a maximum hourly rate, which is set at a normal year of work. Stepping away from the normal year of work, as proposed by the opposition in this proposal, will also provide poorer financial management. It should worry Right at least – or maybe not. Similarly, the introduction of maximum hourly rates applies. Reimbursing support for unpaid self-employment is another proposal under the SkattenFUNN scheme. It is to reintroduce a system that was administratively complicated and demanding – to which the Ministry of Finance was sued on its behalf. It might be a simplification in some of its ears, but it's far from a simplification, as I see it. Then it's not going to get away from the fact that SkattenFUNN is legitimate. The tax money, in my opinion, and the red-green vision, should go to trigger the marginal projects that otherwise had not seen the light of day, not to trigger the projects that had in any case seen the light of day – they had been realized anyway. So the balance sheet is important. TaxFUNN was created for small projects, while the Research Council is going to have large projects. It's still like that. And then I want to add that we once raised the maximum ceiling, from $4 million. NOK to SEK 5.5 million. kr. It was done in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2917	I was actually just going to give an explanation of vote to the Left's proposal, but after the last speech, I have to make a few small comments. It is quite clear that in business policy there is a light year between the representative of Ingrid Hegø and the undersigned, in understanding whether companies should be able to spend a little more of the earnings earned through their own activities to drive innovation, research and development – which the SkattFUNN scheme is actually about. And it's obvious that simplification is needed, because businesses have to be allowed to decide for themselves what types of projects they really need. I don't think the Storing or the Government is the right body to assess whether these projects will be realised or not. I am absolutely sure that also the representative Heggø when she has been on her travels in District Norway – who is signed relatively often – has questions related to the roof. The ceiling is the biggest problem for businesses – for business out in the districts. There's also a lot of people who deal with the hourly rate, but I'm not going to dwell on it anymore. The representative Heggø also said that they do not vote against the proposals – that they are not sure they will not accept them – but that they vote to attach them. Yes, you do, but there's one thing you don't do: you don't decide. These included: the undersigned said in his post. So it's not going to be adopted in this room, but we're going to have enough time to do that in a year's time. With regard to the proposals from the Left, our problem of voting for part of these proposals is that we have a budgetary procedure coming next week. Many of these proposals, with slightly different sums, have been included in the position of the Economic and Social Committee, which means that there is no other way of voting for sums than what has been covered by the State budget. That is why I can only say that proposal No. 28 will vote in favour of the Advancement Party. This is what is going on to introduce exemptions from the employer’s pay for apprentices – very good suggestions. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will also be voting in favour of proposal No. 34, to reduce the fees related to the Brønn Island Health Registers. There are many other good proposals, and we share their intention, but because we are going to deal with a budget – where we have entered other sums, and with a slightly different device – we cannot vote for them today. But I think the Progress Party and the Left – and really the whole opposition – will probably agree on a lot of these things in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2932	Card to the Left's proposal: we support proposal No. 34 when we get that far. So short to the representative Heggø's last post: the changes we want in the Tax Fund, we've never thought of simplification measures. There is something quite different – it is stimulating research and development, with its own forces and resources, in its own enterprises. I am also surprised that the representative Heggø is so difficult to say something positive about small and medium-sized enterprises. Both the SV and the Central Party have almost praised them in their posts, while it is relatively quiet from the Workers' Party. Nor is this the case with the two-track economy in Norway – it actually exists. Finally, we have to decide, says Heggo again, for whatever we want. Do we want the individual things, or do we want the whole thing? I took note of the statements made by the Council of State that he felt it was more important with concrete proposals – I think it was in his script – than with the whole, so it could be that there are more people who have to decide what they think.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2945	I just want to let you know that proposal No. 34 is supported by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2950	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2977	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the 25 minutes working party, the 15 minutes progress party, the right 10 minutes, the Socialist left party, the centre party, the Christian People's Party and the left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e2986	Here, as has been said at the outset, we are going to deal with two representative proposals. Both debt simplification – one with 30 concrete and partly detailed proposals, the other with how to measure the outcome of the simplification process. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that simplification is important for business. We will have a well-functioning public sector, with laws and rules that promote healthy competition and that take care of important social concerns. At the same time, it is important that we do not impose unnecessary costs on business through the legislation and the reporting system we establish. I expect the minority to go through the way they view and base their proposals, so I will concentrate mainly on presenting the point of view of the plurality. Many governments have talked about simplification, but this government has seen concrete targets for work. The administrative costs of the business community shall be reduced by 10 billion. kr before the end of 2015. The government has implemented a number of measures, with a strong focus on the digitisation of the public sector. Digitisation of the public sector is a very important step, both to reduce the work and red tape of businesses and to improve the quality of communication between the public sector and business. I will take a few examples of what has been done and what has had a major economic impact on business: Electronic Dialogue with Employers – EDAG – has saved business for half a billion dollars, digitisation of business start-up through Altin is a saving of 200 million. kr, electronic invoice has led to a saving of 100 million. kr and electronic tax cards have saved business for 70 million. kr. So it's done a lot when it comes to digitisation, which is maybe one of the most important steps we can take to save business from unnecessary bureaucracy, and thus unnecessary costs. There are still new things happening in this area – I can see that within the Health Inspectorate there has also been a major digitisation exercise, such as. are important to reduce the cost of exporting industries related to the export of fish. The first proposal for a representative presents 30 very detailed proposals for simplification in part. All the proposals have been commented on in detail in letters from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. There is also a slightly more summary comment from the majority of the committee in the configuration. I didn't think to go in and repeat the arguments here. I just want to sum up by saying that what I've been pointing out is a part of the proposals that's already going on well, including when it comes to what's happening before digitization. Some of the other suggestions have already been discussed in Stortinget and rejected. The letter from the Minister of Industry states that the proposals will have different relevance for further work on simplification, but that they will all – to different degrees – be assessed in the further work on simplification, and therefore the majority suggest that we put all the proposals to the meeting book. The second representative proposal relates to the reporting of the simplification work. The proposers want us to produce a report every six months. The measurement of savings by simplification, using the so-called standard cost method, is quite costly. It has shown previous experience. While the measurement method itself is costly, it is the long-term effect we want to achieve with the savings measures, with the simplification work. Therefore, it may be discussed whether it is cost-effective to have a frequent long-term impact measurement with high time costs. Therefore, there is reason to ask questions about the frequency proposed here. There's also a reason to notice that one of the reasons we need simplification, that we have a lot of bureaucracy out there with companies, is that a lot of etats want more measurement. And so it might be a little paradoxical that those who want to strengthen the simplification work will have extra frequent measurements. On the other hand, we are going to have a relevant measurement system, and the minister has said that he is willing to look at it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3005	The case spokesperson did an excellent job for both of these cases, and of course I agree with what he said. There are 30 simplification measures, and then there is a Document 8 proposal that, in my view, is the opposite of a simplification measure, because it is a proposal for more frequent reporting and measurement. It is always reasonable to assess simplification measures, but it should be applied at all stages, including in the public sector and state bureaucracy. We can use ourselves as an example. One would like to reduce public bureaucracy, and it's even going to be shoes to some extent often and heavily on the permissions of the administration in the various budget proposals. In DN we could read two days ago that the Progress Party had asked 870 questions to the Ministry of Finance regarding the budget. One of the questions was ‘What is the stupidest aid project that Norway supports’? In another question, submitted by the Progress Party at the end of October, the party wondered ‘if the government has considered setting up a new Holden Committee to look at wage formation in Norway’. Just over a month earlier, the government had sent out a press release stating that such a selection should be put down, and the selection was also described in the budget papers that the Progress Party asked questions about. Well, it might pay us all to think a little bit about it sometimes, and realize that simplification at all stages will actually save society for a lot of resources. I don't mean that we're going to have any limitation on the number of questions you can send in connection with the budget. It must not be misunderstood, because I think we need to have it the way we do today, but it may not be appropriate to propose new control measures and new reporting measures without thinking about an extra time. It is a central goal for the government to create and maintain jobs. Yes, I am very happy and very busy with small and medium-sized enterprises, just as the Workers' Party is. History will show that we are happy to make small and medium-sized enterprises flourish and deliver, but that does not mean that there are no challenges. Both the market and the situation in Europe give cause for concern. Simplification is an important tool for improving the competitiveness of businesses and also of the public sector. At the same time, we need to strike a balance between the necessary reporting on one side, which we must retain, and unnecessary double reporting on the other side, which we can remove. In this case, a DKK 54 billion is spent by industry as a requirement to follow up reporting and forms, and one indicates that several countries in Europe have a simplification target of 25 pst. I'm a little bit unsure: 25 pst. of what? Because, as I have said before, it is a good deal that we actually want – and must – report on. And I don't think for a moment that the Right Party or the Advance Party would stand up for the government if there had come media resolutions about abuse, which had been uncovered, and said that abuse, yes, it has to be reckoned with when one has simplified that way. No, I think one would rather have stood up and said: Missing control and proposals for more control measures and increased reporting! I'm pretty sure I had it coming. I want to learn a little bit about simplification in the public sector and bureaucracy. When it comes to the release of resources through the smart use of ICT tools and the digitisation program, there was 1 billion. to this in the year's budget. Some of the really important areas are, for example: ICT modernisation in Nav, EDAG – Electronic dialogue with employers. EDAY means that employers only give one report on additions, wages and salaries per person added. Simplification is calculated to provide employers with annual savings of at least 500 million. kr. That's what I think is great! With EDAY, however, the natives will be able to get faster and more accurate data from Nav. Altogether 2 is the next thing I want to mention. Altin shall be stabilised and further developed so that the solution can be used by more than one, and for more. One might say a lot about the problems in Altin, but one doesn't get away from the fact that Altin is a success and a common solution with an enormous potential. Common digital mailboxes can be mentioned. This is a common solution for digital mail to citizens and businesses. This means simplification for users as well as for management. I have not gone into the implementation of simplification measures, but I would like to remind you of the Right-Man and the up-to-date NHO Chief Bernander's words: 'Simplification measures of times'. What he was talking about then was the loss of audit obligations for small companies. We've come up with a number of new simplification measures later. It's an ambitious goal that the government has seen – a simplification target of 10 billion. kr by 2015. And we're actually doing a good job: the simplification is up to about three billion. kr – there is enormous savings for our business. And there'll be more. There are unlikely to be many measures in place that will in the long term reflect savings in the cost to industry and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3033	We have also discussed small and medium-sized enterprises in the past, so this will be in the extension of that debate. There are now 30 proposals in one case and one in the other. As I said in my previous post, small and medium-sized enterprises – i.e. with less than 100 employees – account for more than 99 pst. by those establishments in Norway. We're always hearing statements related to a lot of things you've simplified, and it refers to the 3 billion. kr, but the three billion. kr is mainly related to the audit obligation, and then it is related to the share capital – which they lowered. The big question that many are asking is whether that reduction in share capital is a simplification proposal or whether it is a saving proposal. I'm going to say that's the last thing. It's a saving for businesses to start up, and it's easier for businesses to start up, but it's probably no less paperwork than if it was a hundred thousand or thirty thousand. But the Council of State should be commended for one thing, and that is that you have started, and I think that is positive. But we have relatively big challenges ahead of us. We have an ALTINN system that is very good at thinking, but several times when you really need to use the service, the system has broken down – this at a time when you would think you had managed to capture things like this through the project work you've done. Now more money is allowed to get this up to go in a real way, and I think most of us look forward to it. With regard to the proposal related to reporting: why is reporting so important? The representative Heggø thought it was not a simplification proposal, rather on the contrary more reporting. But if you're going to have something to measure by, you know where you've come and give others the opportunity to try if that's actually the case, you have to have something to look up to. Now you're saying you've reached 3 billion. kr. That is what you report, and it has also been reported in recent years. So there are no figures other than those relating to the audit obligation and the reduction of the share capital. It's a long way to the goal of 10 billion. kr. I hope you can get ahead of yourself in this work. It is important to report, because that is, we can get good debates and recordings just on new ways and new proposals that we can get on with. It is important for small and medium-sized enterprises that their everyday lives become easier to deal with. When the founder starts his business, it's because you want to create something. It's because you want to use your skills and your workforce to create a job and make a living out of it. One of the last things you want is that you should agree to sit down and write and report new forms all the time. I look forward to the day when Altin is really up and going, where there is an adequate solution that means that once a year you can submit a form to the public, and that in subsequent years you only follow up the changes. Then it's the public agencies themselves that have to actively go in and get from that database the information you actually need. It's simplification. The representative Heggø was concerned with what is happening in the public sector. It's very positive, but then we also have to start seeing some results in the reduction of bureaucracy in the public sector, for example. that, instead of spending a lot of time on an application to build a garage, you spend a long, long time with continuous forms between the floors trying to find reasons to say no to this garage — rather spend some time trying to stamp this case as OK, and send it out so that he can build his garage. There is a lot we can get into, but once again I just have to say that this is a little incredible – we had 24 proposals in the previous case, and we have 31 proposals that are here now. You don't have it clear from the government, on one of these proposals, to say, yes, we agree, this can be a way to go – so we decide this. No, you can't. But as in the previous case, you spend a lot of time and resources looking for a reason to say no, instead of stretching out a hand and saying yes, this is actually a good idea. That should be possible, too. Because it actually happens in this hall from the opposition side. There's a lot of time when the government comes up with a proposition, and the Storting says yes. It is not necessarily that the Storting must try every single time to find a reason to say no, although that is the impression you are left with after these matters we have to deal with today. It is pointless to try to convince the government parties. We've tried that before. It's proven not to work. It's not going to work today either. You've decided to vote against. That is why I feel that instead of wasting my time on the opposition, we would rather try to tell the outside what these proposals are about, and I will take up the suggestions contained in the two settings we are discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3061	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3064	The economy in Norway consists mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises, many of them family-owned entrepreneurs who often struggle up and down from zero. Especially for these enterprises, reporting requirements, forms and legislation are very time-consuming and burdensome. Many feel that they meet with suspicion and control. For these enterprises, the form and reporting field of government costs a great deal. The total annual burden on companies to comply with the form field is today of a total of 60 billion. kr. For a long time, the right has sought a simpler regulatory framework to help businesses focus on their primary tasks, which are to create values and secure jobs. In fact, managers have more important things to do for the company than to sit for hours and fill out forms of information that the public has received in the past. In 2002, the Bondevik II government promoted an action plan for a simpler Norway. In retrospect, the plan was followed up with new simplification targets for the period 2005-2009. The current Minister of Economic Affairs Børge Brende set a clear goal: the administrative costs of industry should be reduced by 25 p.m. by 2012. The country had a change of government, and the plan was very little followed up. The red-green government has now ruled for almost two major periods. After a lot of pressure from business and opposition, they promised to simplify with approx. 10 B.C.E. kr – 5 br. kr for the current ageing period and SEK 5 billion. kr in the next. The Minister of Industry gives the media the impression that they have done a lot. The truth is, unfortunately, that there is very little happening, and that one is far from the target set by the Right and the Bondevik II government in 2002. In the course of almost eight years in opposition, the Right has promoted many simplification proposals that the government has voted down. Unfortunately, we will experience the same thing here today. This is a very bad thing. The proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left takes on several important and very concrete simplification measures, outlined by, among others. The NHO, the Association of Accounting Officers and the Association of Auditors. There are many good simplification proposals here that will not help to reduce the value of public access to information. An overall opposition wants to alleviate the burden and make everyday life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. For the right, it is important that the meeting of companies with public bureaucracy is as simple as possible. New and improved technologies are constantly giving rise to new opportunities, and developments are moving very rapidly today. It is therefore embarrassing that most of public Norway is slowing down. Poor ICT solutions cost, in the form of unnecessary systems. It costs frustration and bureaucracy. Health-Norway, we have now been told that we have used the fax again. It tells us a little bit about the evolution we're in. Altin is the government’s solution for reporting and dialogue with enterprises. The government's investment on Altin must therefore be made far more professional and user-friendly. The aim of Altin is to enable companies to fulfil a number of tasks electronically. With today's technology, it is possible to create tailor-made solutions for better task flow in the portal, and companies will be guaranteed that there is the right form to submit. When the Riksrevision in its observations characterises the weaknesses of the existing ALTINN II solution as serious, the government and the Storting must take it most seriously. There is an urgent need to reduce the need for double reporting and simplification of customs procedures is urgent. It is worrying that the user-friendliness of businesses in response to the public is not prioritised to a significant extent by the red-green government. What we see is that the red-greens are more concerned with defending the systems rather than facilitating individual businesses and individuals. In this area, there is a clear need for new ideas and better solutions, which a new civil government can best provide. So to measure results: it is disappointing – as said – that after so many years of power and responsibility, the government has not taken further the goals of a simpler Norway, promoted by Børge Burnde under the Bondevik II government. Especially bad is the fact that Norway is a sink, while the civil governments of Denmark and Sweden have already come a long way in reducing the administrative costs of business. Both countries have a target of 25 pst. In August 2011 – six years after the red-greens took over in government – the State Council presented in a press release the following concrete objectives for reducing the administrative costs for industry: ‘From 1.1.2011 to 1.1.2016, the costs incurred by enterprises to comply with regulatory reporting requirements shall be reduced by a total of DKK 10 billion. It corresponds to a reduction of about 20 percent of today's level. About half of the cuts shall be made during the current accumulation period.» Simplification is a long-term work. We record that the government is not using correct targets when it is already reporting progress in the simplification work. In a news item from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade dated 18 October 2012, the Council of State stated that it has already been simplified for 3 billion. krones. This number does not give a correct image, for example: the savings are overestimated in the event of the cancellation of the audit obligation for individual companies. At the same time, we experience that the Council of State, together with Prime Minister Stoltenberg, travels around the business world and boasts that they are on the right track when they are met with massive demands for company simplification. We experienced this at the latest during a visit to Ålesund, where the Council of State claimed it was saved 2 billion. kr only to waive the audit obligation for small enterprises and to reduce capital requirements for new enterprises. With regard to the audit obligation, the figure is probably closer to a point between 1.2 and 1.8 billion. kr – at least not in 2 billion. kr. That the deposit requirement for the formation of a limited liability company is reduced from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000, but it is wrong if the Council of State claims that this is a billion-dollar simplification. In reality, this is only a change over the balance sheet; it is not saved form selection costs. It is positive that the red-green government has learned a little from the previous bourgeois government and has continued the idea of putting simplification on the agenda, but it is disappointing that it has taken so long to show real action. I would recommend the Council of State and the Government to intensify simplification. At the same time, they have to learn not to adjust the numbers to make it look like they're keeping their promises. This is not at all something that the Right is alone to mean or say, for today's business wrote on 23 October: ‘Poorness should be less concerned with calculating savings from unimplemented measures and should be more appropriate to make concrete simplifications.’ As I said, the right is disappointed that the government has spent so many years and got so little. Right promise to continue the important job of simplifying the business form field as soon as we get back into government. In order to clarify the effects of intervention taken, the objective of reducing administrative costs should be combined with continuous measures of simplification achieved. Current measurements should be presented twice a year, for example: on the submission of the State budget on the autumn and revision of the national budget for the spring. Measurements should be based on the standard cost method and provide a good explanation of the numerical material behind the calculations. This is a tip to the state council, because without a good map, you don't know where you're on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3112	Initially, it might be tempting to suggest that the opposition may have taken a lot of Møller's tears when we hear the misdemeanor description they're making here. I have to say I do not recognize myself in that description. So to the very thing: the center party is dedicated to facilitating business, and we're concerned with simplification and avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy. Simplification is important to reduce costs for business. The centre party is therefore positive that a number of measures have been put in place to contribute to this, and we are active drivers to achieve more and more simplification both for business and for people most of the day. Effective reporting procedures with maximum re-use of data and functional regulation contribute to an efficient business environment. It is therefore important to continue and strengthen the simplification work in progress. Simplification work must focus on concrete results and on concrete savings for businesses. Simplification must contribute positively to the creation of value added, while at the same time we have legislation that takes care of important societal considerations. However, what is important to avoid is unnecessary double reporting. There's something both the Center Party and the business community are concerned about. In addition, I refer to letters to the Committee from the Minister for Industry, Industry and Industry, where a number of important simplification measures have been put in place. This applies, inter alia, to: reduction in the minimum capital requirement and the possibility of opting out audits for the smallest limited liability companies – measures that have been demanded by business for a long time. This government has done something about it. With respect to reporting, it must be acknowledged by the opposition itself. The centre lot also refers to the investment in electronic reporting through Altin, as shown in one of the notes. The centre lot is dedicated to concreteising the simplification work and following up the results over time. In this context, it is important to find appropriate ways of assessing the results, as the Minister of Economic Affairs underlines in his letter to the Committee. I also refer to letters from the Council of State where concrete assessments of all the 30 sub-proposals have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3125	Once again, we are dealing with opposition proposals that will contribute to simplification and improve the conditions of the many companies that contribute to the welfare and value creation of Norway. Once again, the government is voting down proposals that will improve the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses and provide a simpler everyday life for Norwegian business. There is a significant need for simplification for the many businesses. Many public regulations, forms and directives lead to unnecessary reporting requirements and complex legislation, and too much effort and money is being spent on doing this work. Overall, the administrative costs related to reporting and reporting forms amount to approx. 60 B.C.E. kr. The Christian People's Party wants to improve the basic framework conditions for value creation, so that Norway can also offer good welfare services to its inhabitants in the future. It is therefore essential that business conditions promote growth and not burden companies. The Christian People's Party will pursue an economic policy that promotes business development, growth and innovation and provides predictability for those who will invest in Norwegian jobs. There is a need to improve conditions through measures to facilitate working life, better conditions for value creation, simpler everyday life and better interaction between the public sector and private business. The proposals we are discussing today have been promoted collectively from all the opposition parties. Unfortunately, we see that the government parties do not show the willingness to give priority to measures that will lead us a good way towards the government's own goal of simplification corresponding to a net reduction in administrative burdens of 10 billion. kr by 2015. Nevertheless, the government does not want to welcome proposals that will help them towards their own goal. To me it seems quite incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3134	For the Left, simplification for Norwegian business has been a very important matter for many, many years. We have proposed – alone or together with other opposition parties – a number of simplification proposals in recent years, at the latest in connection with our alternative state budget for 2013. Some of these — such as Exclusion of audit obligations for some enterprises, but far less than expected — has been adopted by the government at a later stage, with all credit for it. The basic position of my and the Left is as follows: All measures that contribute to simplification are good – point. The basic position of government and government is more difficult to see. In the setting, for example, writes the majority that it is ‘important to collect data necessary for the public to carry out its high-quality tasks’. More clearly, it really cannot be said. The system is most important. I want to quote Jens Stoltenberg in the Question Time on November 21st this year: ‘If the system does not serve man in a good way, there is something wrong with the system – nothing wrong with man.’ It is clear that the government parties are not entirely in line with their own Prime Minister. Both Sweden and Denmark can show good results in terms of simplification. The results are because it is a political will to achieve it. In 2007 it launched the project «Burden Hunter» in order to make everyday life easier for Danish companies. This has resulted in a significant increase in understanding to make everyday life easier for businesses and a significant reduction in business costs. Inspired by this, the Swedish bourgeois government has launched the ‘Simplification Hunt’ project. In concrete terms, it is all about something as logical as the following: the Swedish government has pointed out four different industries, hotels and restaurants, transport, trade and processing, which should have a high growth potential, but which experience that laws, rules and reporting requirements are a direct obstacle to growth – in reality, the same thing that we are concerned about in the proposal for a representative we are dealing with. This could have been done by the Norwegian government in and of its own accord, but here also the similarity stops. In Norway, the mission would have gone to a public sample, which had spent one year in the investigation, then a few years on the consultation round and internal dispute in the government, then maybe a big shot and then maybe a plan or a proposition to the Stortinget. It may sound a bit flaked, but this is actually a description of the procedure in order to resolve the audit obligation for the smallest enterprises. A public body was established in May 2007. Only four years later, the final decision to wind up the audit obligation was taken. Meanwhile, government parties had voted against doing the same thing a number of times. In Sweden, it's completely different. The government is giving the task – through a short and concise ‘government decision’ on three A4 pages – to the Swedish Growth Agency, Sweden’s Innovation Norway, which together with the companies in these four industries is to identify how businesses experience everyday life related to current laws, regulations and regulations, and to make proposals that make everyday life considerably better and simpler. The mission was given on 20 September this year, and as early as 31 January next year, the Swedish Growth Agency will deliver its first interim report to the government – four months of effective work. Then the Swedish government writes something interesting in its «government decision»: «Simplification hunt» shall be based on the perspective of the companies and contribute to increasing the understanding of the company's everyday lives. It shall also contribute to enhancing dialogue and communication between enterprises and authorities. Through dialogue directly with businesses, the government will gain an understanding of where, when and how businesses face problems and unnecessary red tape. The Simplification Hunt mission is an important part of the government’s efforts to achieve the objective of a notable positive change in the company’s daily lives. This is, to quote the former Rosenborg coach Erik Hamrén, «right attitude». It is this form of work that the Left wants in Norway. We want to release Innovation Norway, so that they are not a bureaucratic tool for government detail management, but a dynamic tool for innovation and simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3163	The representatives of Nesvik, Flötten, Andersen Eide and Tenden have presented two proposals for representatives, one with 30 proposals for simplification and the other with a view to measuring the results of the simplification initiative. Let me first say that I appreciate the great commitment of all parties in the Stortinget so that we can achieve the simplification goal we have set – with constructive contributions to how we can achieve it. Let me also say that we accept all good ideas, wherever they come from, evaluate them and continuously implement them as much as possible, also measured against other considerations, which obviously apply to removing or reducing the scope of the rules. Let me say something about the simplification proposals. There is no way to go through all 30, but I want to reassure the opposition that the proposals that have been promoted will be well taken care of. Let me give you some examples that underline this. In simplification proposal 2, the government is asked to ensure that forms can be submitted by electronic means. As of 1 July 2011, electronic submission of the reporting form and the follow-up plan to the Working and Welfare Session via Altin has already been facilitated. This solution did not satisfy all parts of the business. Therefore, Nav launched a new service in September 2012 in cooperation with suppliers of pay and personnel systems. The service allows electronic reporting on the follow-up of sick persons by sending to Nav directly from the payroll and staff system of the establishment. Proposals 8, 9 and 10 ask the proposers for a number of simplifications in reporting obligations, codes and forms related, inter alia. wages and salaries. As stated in the reply letter to the Stortinget, this is expected to be done by electronic dialogue with the employer, EDAG. In order to ensure a simpler everyday life for businesses, the government proposed the implementation of the EDAG in the revised national budget for 2012. The project shall be completed by the end of 2015 and expected to generate an annual reduction in the cost of business of at least 0,5 billion. kr. In the simplification proposal 22, the government is asked to carry out reasonable simplifications according to the recommendations of the Accounting Standard Board. The government presented changes in May, among others: the bookkeeping law and the Securities Trading Act, where several simplifications were introduced: the relaxation of the requirements of the Accounting Act for drawing up specifications, the freedom to choose the storage medium – including electronic storage – and the lifting of the prospectus limit. In addition to the examples I mentioned here, the government is working on several other simplification measures. Some of them have also been proposed by the representatives: simplifications in the Share Act, based on the Knudsen investigation, further amendments to the Accounting Code, based on the Accounting Standard Board's Report No. 3, and amendments to the Competition Act, based on the recommendations of the Competition Act Committee. The proposers also call for results measurement. You're suggesting the 10-billion-dollar target. The reduction of administrative costs should be combined with continuous measures of simplification achieved. According to the proposers, the measurements should be based on the standard cost model. Representatives argue that these current measurements should be presented twice a year, for example. in the context of the presentation of the State budget and the revision of the national budget. The representatives point out that clear targets provide clear results. We were the first government to set such a completely concrete and clear reduction target, 10 billion. kr by 2016, and we deliver clear results. A number of examples have already been mentioned and several can be added to the list: reduction of the share capital requirement, removal of the audit obligation, digital solutions such as: electronic tax cards and e-invoices, and the digital making available of all applications, forms and reports. This helps to reduce business administrative burdens by 3 billion. kr per year. It might be early to say that the results are historical, but I think we're on the right track. And I think we're at least on the same road as Sweden is. I also suspect that when proposals are made for legislative changes in Sweden, they have a system quite similar to that in Norway – that things should be consulted, that different bodies should be consulted, and that a proposition should be made and things adopted in the Riksdag. The government is concerned that the simplification work will produce results both in the short and long term. The standard cost model, which the opposition wants to use in performance measurements, gives an indication of the administrative costs of business, but it does not necessarily show which measures are most important. We want to implement changes that contribute to real business simplification. It is not achieved by unilateral attention to short-term achievement. Half-yearly reporting on the extent to which proposers provide will require significant resources. I want to use those resources to further intensify the simplification work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3198	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3201	The resources available to the Council of State have increased considerably in recent years, so some additional measures can also be taken. My question to the Council of State is about Altinn. If Altin is to work, we need security of the system, that is. When we're going to use it, we need to know that we're getting the information we're going to get, and that the system also needs to be so robust that it can withstand the use it's intended to tolerate. In the budget, the government has just proposed an increase to ALTINN, so that some of the problems can be addressed there. I am absolutely convinced that the Council of State is at least as impatient as I signed to get this system up to go in a proper way and not least extend it further. Can the Council of State say a little about the time horizon – when can you expect the ALTINN system, including Altinn II, to be in place in a proper and good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3212	It is true that the undersigned is as attentive as the questioner to the challenges that Altin has faced. It's also true that if we're going to have an electronic reporting system, if we're going to be able to retrieve information there, it has to work every single day, every single hour, throughout the year. We had a breakdown last year, as it was simply not dealt with that event that the audience's tax surveys led to. It was fixed, but we got a new problem, simply because of a technical defect from a subcontractor. Now we're going to spend 100 million. kr in the 2013 budget for testing, quality assurance and ensuring that this is fully operational. Altin will never be finished, we will develop this tool more and more, for example. with new services, but we will ensure that the services provided at all times are operationally safe and top-notch.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3219	As far as Altin is concerned, the security of the system is at stake, especially for enterprises that are required to report and which are both required to provide information and to obtain information, which hopefully becomes possible over time. Just the certainty that the system is functioning at all times is crucial for business. My next question is on reporting. An overall opposition has requested the introduction of half-yearly reporting related to simplification work. Now, of course, you can say that you don't necessarily need the entire review every six months, but the joke is that you have to have a report against the decision-making bodies about where you stand at this time. It's rejected the position, you don't have to. But if the Council of State doesn't agree that if we're going to move on, it's important to get a report so that you have something to measure against, so you don't just use the same number over a longer period of time without knowing where you actually stand – also the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3226	We are working intensively to ensure that the calculations of simplification are correctly and continuously updated. It is also very important to stress that the European way of doing this is that it is the potential of every simplification that is real. A previous post here referred to the impact of the audit obligation. If, despite the fact that the State no longer requires audit, an enterprise chooses to use audit, for example: in the case of a banking connection or a business relationship, it is nevertheless included in the simplification potential. That's how other countries also calculate it. It's the requirements of the public provider that's the key here. I am absolutely convinced that we have many opportunities to present these continuously updated simplification measures. I'm absolutely sure I'm being invited to the staging room to discuss simplification much more often than once in a six-month period. So I think we should keep up to date quite regularly – also the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3233	Governments want to reduce the administrative costs of enterprises by 5 billion. kr by 2013. At the same time, we see that the form field continues to grow. A report from February 2010 showed that the total reporting obligations amounted to 54.6 billion. kr. The government then presented an SME strategy in March 2012 which showed that the figure had grown to about 60 billion. kr. Both figures are given in 2010 and the changes represent a growth of about 10 %. 6 B.C.E. kr, over 10 pst. This goes in the opposite direction to what both the government and the Right have said that we want. We should have seen a reduction here, that the numbers went down. Recalculations are still, unfortunately, a cause for doubt on the Government's 5 billion promises. NOK simplification by 2013. Why does the Minister of Industry allow the administrative costs of business to grow?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3240	There are many reasons why administrative costs are as high as they have been. The reality is that under various governments, including civil governments, the reduction has been negligible. That's why it was very necessary for us to set a concrete measurement number and finally get results. This is due, inter alia, to: that every time we discover something that is not fully controlled in Norwegian society, different governments are criticized for not having an overview of the fact, not control of the breach of rules, etc., and then we come up with some new rules that business is going to deal with. The National Audit Board contributes to what the Control Committee contributes to what the Stortinget contributes to, and many different interest groups contribute to it. Then we sometimes have to dry down to say no, to say that here the administrative burden becomes so great that the good purpose has to give up. But it's like we're the ones who have implemented the biggest simplification measures. The audit obligation could have been removed during the Bondevik administration. It didn't. It is only under the Stoltenberg Government that this major simplification measure has been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3247	My second question to the State Council is on performance measurement. The Council of State stated on 18 October that the government has simplified for 3 billion. kr. This number is quite so questionable. This figure includes, for example: 500 million. kr for electronic dialogue with the employer. This measure will be implemented at the earliest in 2015, and it will therefore be wrong to include this as a saving of 500 million. kr for Norwegian enterprises today. In addition, the Council of State estimates 100 million. kr in saving for eInvoice. This is not a simplification for business, but rather a saving for the state. When the Council of State has problems counting on what administrative costs actually mean for business, why does the Council of State oppose the proposal that can help him clear up any doubts about the calculations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3256	The representative can be absolutely certain that it is not the Council of State who is missing from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and is counting on the effects of the various simplification measures. Fortunately, I have people who are much more competent and trained to do so. Then you can always discuss the methods used, and the effects of different measures, but I can assure you that here there are no political leaders in one direction or another, here we trust the office we have, the professional recordings we get, of course also in close dialogue with, among other things. NHO and Working, and look at the most effective measures as soon as possible. We must continue to improve our systems of calculation, but it is important to implement the simplification measures that work as quickly as possible and are the most comprehensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3265	Sweden and Denmark have come a long way in simplifying their work and have reduced their costs by around 7 billion. kr under civil governments. Then it's natural to look at these countries, what they do, and what results. In Sweden, it is clear that the establishment of the Board of Regulators has had a positive effect. It has previously been refused by the Council of State and the majority of the population to enter Norway. Now the Swedish government is taking new action by putting in the work «Simplification Hunt», following the Danish success model «Burden Hunter». Earlier in similar debates, the Council of State has claimed to follow closely developments in Sweden and Denmark in terms of simplification. Is he then ready to set up a similar Norwegian model, or is everything as usual very well in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3272	No, we follow very closely what is happening in other countries. I have personally been to Denmark and met my former colleague – now there has been a change of government – Brian Mikkelsen, who worked on this, and we also follow what the social-democratic government in Denmark is doing in the continuation of the simplification work. We also follow what's happening in Sweden. I'm not quite so impressed with what's going on there, but we're following. what is happening in the Netherlands, which is one of the most successful countries. I have also been there and met the Ministry of Food to get involved in what they have done. So we learn the most from other countries, but of course there are also specific Norwegian rules and systems that we have to deal with. We have our version of «Burden Hunter» through simpler rules.no, where we invite absolutely all actors to make recordings, not only over the things that have the greatest administrative burden, but also what may be the most annoying or annoying – to get recorded. So we're playing a lot of business, both with single actors and with organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3282	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3287	In conclusion, I think there has been a lot of rhetoric in this debate, but it is not always rhetoric that has been equally consistent. I would like to point out that the representative Røbekk Nørve hassled that the government spends a lot of time and is too busy calculating the savings. At the same time, one of the representatives' proposals is that we should have more accounting for savings. Where is the consistency? But I think that the representative Solli takes the cake when he complains that we want it to be quality in the public administration. Does the representative Solli believe that it would be better for the companies if there was poor quality in the public administration, and does the representative Solli not believe that the Left had taken the government if there was poor quality in the public administration? The fact that we want quality in the public administration, I thought I was bad for a party like Left. Then I want to say a little about the suggestions themselves. It is, as has been pointed out here, that a good part of the proposals have been implemented more or less, and some of the proposals have actually been put up for voting in this Chamber not so long ago and have been rejected. Then I might not think that it is very respect for the hall to repeat them briefly afterwards. With something more modesty, there might be more sound quality to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3298	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3312	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3321	I believe that the entire Committee can agree that the Progress Party's Document 8 raises an important policy area, and we note the Minister of Industry's response to the Committee, that the Council of State considers the need for a separate communication on industrial policy and/or industrial policy. The Christian People's Party and the Right support the proposal for the Progress Party to promote a big message about the industry's framework conditions, while the government parties propose that the matter be annexed to the protocol. I do not understand why it should be so difficult to prioritize an industrial notification when many other industries, such as fisheries, agriculture, research and the petroleum industry, have their own messages. For many years industry has laid the foundation for the welfare society we have today; a big message is important to make industry’s needs visible through a comprehensive presentation of the challenges facing industry. A review of existing framework conditions with a view to modernisation in the light of the uncertain situation in the world economy will be important. We've got a two-part division of Norwegian industry. While traditional industries are struggling heavily, oil and offshore related activities experience formidable growth. The NHO economic survey shows that despite high domestic demand, the oil supply industry has also contributed to keeping Norwegian exports up. The other export industries, many of which are from the process industry, are hard-wearing and the production index is significantly lower than last year. Although there has been an increase in the Norwegian economy of five quarters in a row, we have not yet seen any increase in industrial investment in the mainland. The rise we've had is so far driven by the growth of oil investment. In the case of petroleum-intensive activities, the lack of skilled labour is a major obstacle. For export-intensive activities, price and cost developments are key obstacles. At a time when the mainland industry is characterised by the Norwegian cost picture, a crisis in Europe and a strong Norwegian krone price, we need an active strategy that a wholesaler can give us. Norwegian industry must be guaranteed predictable framework conditions. Industry is important both for value creation and jobs, but also for the development of new technologies needed to create a more environmentally friendly society. Norway has long traditions based on natural assumptions and a high level of competence. Climate change and the danger of global warming are the greatest challenges of our time. Efforts are required on many fronts and industry too must contribute. Norwegian industrial experience and competence must be used to develop existing industry while being an important premiscible on the action side towards the renewable society. The proposers specifically point to the importance of road development in the document 8, so that export businesses reach the markets. As an example, I can mention a future road project, Møreaksen, in my home state of Møre and Romsdal. BI Professor Torger Reve has pointed out in his research that the industry clusters offshore, maritime sector and aquaculture are the most crucial for the future. These are industries in the middle of the heart of More and Romesdal. In addition, taking into account the social benefits of linking the housing and working regions linked by the Møreak between Ålesund and Molde, we receive an additional 835 million annually. kr. These are figures according to Victor Normann at the Bergen School of Commerce. If we continue to link to the South Sunnmare through the Hafast connection, the additional gain increases annually to over 1 billion. kr. This makes both the benefits of society and the added value of trade for the value-creating business. An expected growth message should address all aspects of industry’s challenges, including: focus on labour and recruitment, the competitive situation, and the energy and environmental challenges. We want closer cooperation with industry to find good solutions to meet the needs of industry and also to respond to the political challenges. I address the proposal we have with the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3351	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3354	As an industrial girl from Høyanger, I have to say that I am very happy every time I am allowed to stand here and talk about industrial policy. I think it's very good that the right-wing party has clearly turned around when it's up to value the industry. I'm really happy about that, because I sat in the hall when a Right State Council was talking about the sunset industry. So I'm glad they've gone away from that line. I want to start with the closing remarks from us red-green, where we say together with the Minister of Industry that the need for an own message to the Stortinget on industrial policy and/or industry is being assessed on an ongoing basis. So it's not that things are being rejected, if it should come up later today. But it dominates all businesses and industry in general, and the export-right industry in particular, is, of course, order in the economy, stable crown prices and an interest rate that doesn't shoot in the weather. I'm not going to make the loss made by the Right in 2005 as they ran around with interest rate calculators to tell the voters how much interest would rise if we red-green came to power, and especially if Kristin Halvorsen was Minister of Finance. What is dangerous in today's alliance is that the Progress Party will not bow to the rule of action, which SV said they both wanted and did. Right-wing representative Sanner wouldn't agree to put his foot down and stand on him to uphold the rule of action. I would say that Jens had never agreed to sit in a government that did not respect the rule of action. But where's Erna? Power probably counts the most, costing what it will cost. It's important that we don't have strange taxes and taxes that hit our businesses, but on the other hand, it's a fact that the fact that we have triggered the companies, like using both whips and carrots, has made them world leaders in innovation and technology development. It's simply a balance that's very important to maintain here. The government has taken a number of measures to improve industry’s power conditions, including the construction of new power, planned network investments and the maintenance of a good power balance. Measures have also been taken against the power-intensive industry, such as the power-intensive industry guarantee scheme and the aid scheme for enterprises in a purchasing consortium for power. I want to frame: Historically high frameworks within GIEK Export Credit Norway New climate fund CO2 compensation scheme Betsing on NCEs and industrial incubators Notification of the establishment of six new seed funds – including two funds in the 2013 budget Action package for the yard and supplier industries that came in spring 2010 Action package aimed at the wood processing industry spring 2012 Innovation initiative Norway – also in the case of large enterprises Betsing on SIVA – important for SIVA to be able to enter major projects and demonstration facilities Mineral Law in 2010 and bet on the mapping of mineral resources – a mineral strategy comes Simplification – approaching 3 billion. kr Nutritional research permits TaxFUNN has been continued and strengthened, increase of BIA, Nutritional Ph.d.m. Increased commitment to commercialising research results from publicly funded research institutions within the FORNY2020 programme in Norway's Research Council New Eco-Technology Scheme Ownership policy – government conducts an active ownership policy and demonstrates flexibility when it is targeted, among other things. the degree of industrial development of the company. The government has, among other things, supported by Hydro’s purchase of aluminium industry from Vale, and by participating in the related issue in the summer of 2010, the State has contributed to strengthening the company’s international investment. In 2010, the equity of Statkraft SF was increased by 14 billion. kr. With the capital extension, Statkraft can realize a series of projects and strengthen its position within renewable energy. The plan for the new investments is based on a healthy focus on environmentally friendly renewable energy in Norway and internationally. The government has, through the connection to the capital increase in the State Forest SF and to the purchase of forest property with a total area of approx. Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bn, Bnt, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bn, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Maritime sector initiative Romesetting Strategy for nanotechnologies and bioprospecting strategy – facilitate new industry GASSMAKS The creation of Investinor in 2009 This is an action that benefits the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3453	First to the previous speaker: the Progress Party has always been and will be a friend and partner for all Norwegian industry. Many times I’ve been amazed at why Stortinget – sometimes at least – can agree on some simple things that you would think would benefit Norway, and where we all have a common interest in succeeding. This matter should be such an opportunity. A big message about the industry's framework conditions would be thought that all parties had an interest, to discuss and come up with proposals and solutions that could help the industry. There is no doubt that large parts of Norwegian industry have major challenges, and some are struggling. The Norwegian paper industry is a good example of this. The party notes that parts of the Norwegian industry are flagged out and established, for example. in former Eastern Europe. This is due, inter alia, to: lower costs, but there are also several reasons, such as: the Norwegian tax policy. The size has dealt with a number of messages, such as agricultural, research, petroleum, fisheries, etc., but a notification of the industry's framework conditions is rejected. This must be interesting for all the small, medium and large industries we have in Norway. In addition, it must be of particular interest to all those who have their income from industry, whether they are employed there or have work of ring effects, such as transport, service, etc. This has to be something to think about for all those who are going to vote on the next big shot in a dirty year. I believe that which parties will be the best and best of all in the industry must be a good question when the decision is to be made today. Norway is a lucky country, given the opportunities we have. We have large natural resources, a long industrial history, a good corporate culture, competent and responsible labour and relatively much capital. We have oil, gas, fish, mining facilities, good food and large forest values, etc. We're a country that, with all our specialities, gets foreign tourists. All this and much more suggest that Norwegian industry should have no problems, but this is not the case. For this reason, the Progress Party wishes, inter alia, to: that we will receive an industrial report for treatment in Stortinget. It is a reality that such a debate must deal with more than the extent of state ownership, as the red-green parties believe. It must cover, inter alia: Financial framework conditions, predictability must continue for a relatively long time, infrastructure in terms of both rail, road, boat, aircraft and quays. and it should address energy supply – that it is stable and large enough for a reasonable price. We have to have environmental legislation that takes care of everyone's interests in a sensible way, and we have to have a education system and offer that allows us to train enough people for the right jobs, even into the future. To divide the industry into two parts, although this is not so simple, it can be said that the industry dealing with gas and oil is going very well, while the rest is struggling to a large or small extent. The question then arises: what can we do to enable Norway to meet the competition we have from other countries? If we as politicians take this more seriously than it seems we do, it can also become more interesting for those who have free capital, to contribute with this and dry to invest. The Progress Party believes that there is a need for a comprehensive presentation of the challenges facing industry and the need to modernise framework conditions in the context of the uncertain situation of the world economy we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3472	It was interesting to hear the Workers' Party spokespersons tell us about the government's busy everyday life in recent years, and about all the issues dealt with in the committee. But what this matter is about, I also expected to hear something about it. In fact, it focuses on the background to the proposal, namely the two-track economy in Norwegian business, which is increasingly visible. In the oil and gas industries, there is a high pace, good prospects and even good performance. The land-based mainland industry encounters falling markets among many trading partners, with a cost level close to 60 pst. over the competing countries, and there is fierce competition for capital and labour from the oil and gas industries, which offer better conditions for both labour and capital. In addition, we have a Norwegian currency that has not been stronger in almost 30 years, and is said to be even stronger. Strong currency enters the bottom line of enterprises. In oil and gas industries, most people probably tolerate both cost levels and strong costs — with opportunities to praise themselves up and out of the problem. There is also a two-part division in the export-oriented industry. So the proposal for a communication on the industry's framework conditions must therefore come closest as a cow for the hammer, in order to keep me in the terminology of this committee. These problems are strongly supported by the NHO report on industrial investment in Norway other than the oil and gas industry. These dolls -- the numbers came a few days ago -- they haven't been that low in almost 40 years. The investments are at a historic low, and the Norwegian krona is at a historic top level. It's an inescapable mix for Norwegian business, in the long run. This is not a situation that has not been known. The OECD survey from this year showed the same in terms of investment. We actually had Greece over us in that overview. It would have been enough to talk to some of the people who feel the problems on their bodies in land-based industry. So the NHO economics barometer is the writing on the wall of those who are engaged in a broad-spectrum industrial activity in Norway. Such a description is likely to meet from the government parties that it is a black paint. But that's not what it is. That's a reason why maybe you should be able to have an industry message to look at what's really going on in this. It doesn't keep with statistics that we have a good standard of living, that we're the world's best country to live in, etc. Looking at long-term measures that can be taken to improve the situation is important. We have a good starting point. I received compliments from the representative Heggø earlier here today, when I said it was going well in Norway. Of course it does. This means that we have a unique opportunity not to use the situation for a sleeping cushion or for an exhibition window for political excellence. It does not solve the challenges of the future. We have to recognize that we have some challenges; they are long-term, we have time to solve them. A message like this is not a bad idea and is not really a strong criticism of the government either. It has promoted many strategies. Everyone has not been in the Stortinget and the Committee. Some people do it on their own. They don't have to be worse for that reason. But an overall message I think would be important for those who are affected by this, and there are actually quite a few. Although the representative, Mr Heggø, did not acknowledge this, the Minister of Industry is going quite far in his reply to the Committee. She recognizes the two-track economy. There's nothing special about it, most people see it. She is also flagging, I think, her good ambition that in the years to come Norwegian industries will be leading the international competition. Then I think we need to see this together. So the right-hand side definitely shares that ambition. I think we should bring together many of these strategies, to which reference is also made in the Council's response to the Committee, to see how it works – how it works. Maybe an overall, general view of this can make this better. I will take the words of the case-rapporteur in the previous case, the Socialist Left Party Holmelid, to me and say that we shall be very modest in our wish for this, if it can help. Now, I guess the Socialist Left Party is not a party that speaks for one to stand in the hand, but we very much want to be responsive from our side and be part of a message that can be good, if it ever comes to the Stortinget. The seed is sown.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3495	The Socialist Left Party has a long tradition of helping the little ones, so what we're going to see later on. But I'll go back to the core of the matter. For a person who has worked a long life in the industry, it is very interesting and exciting to discuss it in this room, and we are happy that the matter is being drawn up, so that we can get a good discussion about Norwegian industrial policy. One of the things I have been talking about in my long life in industry – since the early 1980s – is that good environmental policies are good business policies. Now I'm actually seeing that decades for decades there are more people that are starting to take it inward. Today, there are probably relatively few, hardly enough Progress Party, who dare to reject good environmental policies as good business policies. I'll just give you some examples of what's behind a statement like that. I've probably said that before, but a good thing can't be said too often. A few weeks ago, a whole page in the Federation friend was dominated by a statement from one of the leaders of the oil technology industry. He said it's the strict environmental requirements in Norway that have made us have an international leadership industry today. Because we were early on setting strict environmental requirements for the Norwegian industry, he has developed a technology that makes him today world-leading technology. But it's not just that environmental requirements mean that we get less emissions or that we get better technology for exports. In fact, it very often also leads to lower production costs and better product quality. Because if you go through a process first, it gets better in several areas. I can tell you that on Monday I will visit Alcoa on the list. There we're going to look at a process that, if it succeeds, is going to revolutionize the production of aluminium around the world. In this way, the offensive environmental effort in Norway – with good support schemes in Innovation Norway and Enova – can revolutionise and make aluminium production in the world significantly less energy-intensive. And that's the result of someone having to stand up and say that environmental policy is business policy. So I would like to make some comments to the representative Fleet. Because if he's been following, as long as I've been in the Storting, I've been talking about the fact that it's worth worrying that we have an oil economy that's very hot, and that it goes beyond the land-based industry. The problem is that I have never seen that neither the Fleet nor anyone else has come up with any solution to that problem. And as someone said before today, what we need is solutions and not necessarily new messages. But I mean to the extent that we can be open to the message, if that would be appropriate. I was at a meeting yesterday, which was arranged by the oil technology industry, and they've taken the point. Because they see that they're in the inflated industry. And they know that at some point they might have to convert to other nutrients. The fact that the industry itself is now at a technological level that allows them to switch from one production and one market to another is one of the contributions that can enable us to build bridges across the different parts of Norwegian business that have different markets today and that differ according to cost levels. So one of the really important bets is that we need to have a broad level of competence and a business that is willing to bet so widely that it can change when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3510	Norwegian industry has greatly contributed to laying the foundation for the welfare society we have today. Our rich natural resources and our high competences are important prerequisites for our long industrial history. Industry is important both for value creation and jobs, but also for the development of new technologies needed to create a more environmentally friendly society. Large parts of industry compete in an international market and it is important that the conditions of industry in Norway are in line with those of competing countries in order not to impair the competitiveness of enterprises. A responsible economic policy and a stable krone price is essential for the further development of industry and other competitive industries in Norway. The centre party is concerned that industry is still an important part of the Norwegian economy, and supports the ambitions of the red-green government that Norwegian industrial industries will continue to lead their industries and niches in an increasingly strong international competition in the years ahead. Economic development in Europe has become a challenge for export-oriented business. Together with changes in the global picture of competition, it poses challenges for key industrial industries and for individual enterprises. The Centre Party therefore considers it important to pursue a comprehensive policy, which ensures both current and future industrial activity in Norway. The red-green government has put in place a number of measures to improve industrial power conditions, including the development of new power, planned grid investments and the maintenance of a good power balance. The government has put in place specific measures aimed at the power-intensive industry, such as the power-purchase guarantee scheme for the power-intensive industry and support schemes for undertakings in the purchasing consortium for power. In addition, important schemes are being put in place to help develop sustainable industry, such as the Eco-Technology Scheme in Innovation Norway and the Enova Climate Technology Fund. In sum, this shows that the Centre Party and the Red-Green Government are concerned with the conditions of the industry to create growth and development throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3527	Industry is an important part of Norwegian business. Industry is part of a highly adaptable and productive Norwegian business that has led us over a few generations to become one of the richest countries in the world. Both industry and other competitive industries have made considerable efforts to increase Norwegian value creation through their ability to adapt and competence. It's going well in the Norwegian industry. Looking at employment in Norwegian industry and mining together, we have had very stable employment over many years. We're actually at the level we were just before the financial crack in the autumn of 2008. It's important to communicate that message because there's a little too many people who think that industry is something we used to run with in the past and that's about to be phased out. We're going to be an industrial nation, we're going to have industrial jobs, and we're going to have a lot of competitive, profitable industrial businesses. So we know that we have challenges. Global competition is increasing, and a challenging situation in the European economy. The level of costs in Norway means that we must constantly be at the forefront in terms of skills, technology and productivity. The government's policy is based on industry continuing to be an important part of the Norwegian economy. It is an important contributor to maintaining the welfare society through the efficient production of profitable products. This is not least the basis of the government's economic policy. When we're so concerned about the rule of action, when we're so concerned about a responsible use of money, when we're concerned that we can't give, whether it's 25 billion. kr or 100 brd. kr from the Right and the Advance Party respectively in tax cuts, it is among other things. because we want to have good welfare arrangements while not increasing money use in Norway in such a way that we destroy the framework conditions for the competitive industry. Framework conditions in the field of energy and the environment are another area that is important for industry. We have put in place major power measures that are important to the industry. Power supply has been strengthened, and we have implemented several measures aimed at the power-intensive industry. It is gratifying that many enterprises in the process industry have entered into new long-term power agreements. This was also a major theme in the election campaign, where some thought that it was no longer possible to have these long-term industrial contracts on force. We also have an offensive policy to ensure that climate policy goes hand in hand with industrial policy. We have taken the view that the revised EU climate allowance directive will be implemented in Norway, in order to make Norwegian enterprises equal to European ones. We have set up a CO2 compensation scheme for industry – here we are at the forefront of Europe – to prevent European climate policy from leading to the deflagration of industry. So we know that part of the industry is facing significant market challenges due to the international crisis. The more important it is to have a large instrument to meet the needs of industry for transition and innovation and the development of long-term competitiveness. The financial crisis shows us just how important it is that the state has an active and forward-looking industrial policy and does not engage in business neutrality or inaction, but on the contrary contributes, for example. through a yard package or woodworking package to sustain important environments of competence over tough times. We work in a number of areas to facilitate industry in particular and business in general. It may be that different size messages can be a way of working – it will be evaluated on an ongoing basis. However, it does not prevent us from discussing a big message that every day we implement a policy that in practice facilitates Norway to remain a strong industrialised country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3553	For the Progress Party, it was of the utmost importance that we had received a communication on industry and its framework conditions and everything relating to industry, and we could have an exciting debate on this. Then the decision states that the matter is annexed to the Minutes. Then I think it's close to asking, when can the Council of State imagine that there's going to be a message about this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3560	Since we have not notified that we will deliver a message, it is probably premature to date it. If we choose to make a message that also includes industrial policy, we also need to notify the Storting about the date of such a notification in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3565	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. It was said a little from the representative Andersen Eide that the matter was attached to the protocol and what it could mean. That's where my question lay, which the Council of State probably understood. Furthermore, some industries are flagging out. In my home country Hedmark there are both steel companies and companies that make windows and doors. That's the way it is on large parts of the country, too, that you have a certain kind of flagging on a larger or smaller scale. This makes the industry that remains even more vulnerable. It also gives some unemployment, of course, or leavencies. So my question is, does the Council of State worry about the flagging out that happens, or is this natural in the development we have in the industry? If the Council of State is concerned about this, what can the Council of State do to reduce at least this flagging?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3572	There are a lot of things that help us to maintain and develop and get new jobs in the industry in Norway. One of the instruments we have is state ownership — where we have secured our head office and decisions and long-term investments in Norway through the fact that some of the most important industrial locomotives in Norway are in state hands. Here, the whole opposition doesn't share the same point of view as the government. At the same time, we must expect a certain division of labour, where very labour-intensive industrial tasks are done in low-cost countries, while the more technologically advanced and expensive operations are carried out in Norway. Conversion is constantly the key to investment in technology. With the investment and development of new products, we can also be competitive in an international, tough competition with our level of costs and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3579	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State well acknowledges the problems of the competitive industry in particular, and this is what we call the two-track economy. In particular, he is in this with a stable price for the export companies, and it is absolutely central. He also writes that despite interest cuts, the crown is still stronger. This is written a while ago, and the crown continues to strengthen itself. Now we in Stortinget have just adopted the budget for 2013. What is it specifically in the budget that the Council of State believes should be able to stop or counteract the developments we see in the crown price at the moment and which are almost poisoned by the export companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3586	It is too competitive for industry to worry if we get too strong a crown over a long period of time. In the short term, most people have probably secured themselves through currency hedges and such things, but in the longer term, a strong crown is very problematic. The key in the budget is the overall, the sum of the money we have, the fact that the budget does not work too expansively, and that the level of costs thus increases the pressure in the Norwegian economy further. All the things we can do to make the labour market work better, also helps. But then it is also important that we arrange through the budget so that monetary policy can be of such a nature that we, for example. does not have to increase interest rates exceptionally in order to keep pressure on the economy and thus make the crown even more attractive to international money marketers. So we're very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3591	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3596	I just want to start with what was our main conclusion in this case, which is that – let's say – the clarifications about an industrial message or a message that a person refers to business, including industry, are being continuously evaluated. I think that from the situation is a pretty reasonable approach. Then I want to stress in the debate that in the case of traditional export-oriented industry, there is every reason to be concerned. I stress that – not least because of the different opportunities available to Norwegian businesses to recruit skills and people. There are two main reasons why our traditional export-oriented industry is challenged. One is, of course, and obvious, the market, where the main exposure is to Europe, and Europe is so challenged. The second is the relation to access to labour. When an NHO's economic barometer emerges, I think that despite the current situation, there are actually quite good feedback from the Norwegian industry and not least from the Norwegian industry regarding the future. I think it's very good to underline that as well. However, in the case of export-intensive enterprises, there is a shortage of labour, there is a decline in turnover and order availability — it has to do with the situation in Europe — and, not least, there is a decrease in sales prices, which may be some of the reasons for the unrest. That's why it's the focus we need. I fully agree with the representative Fleet when he is concerned about the development of interest rates and exchange rates – perhaps especially the development of exchange rates. There's something the government has in focus. Safe economic governance and ensuring that a non-political decision puts the krone price at risk are particularly important. What may give rise to more concern – but that is what we get into the budget debate – is who Right will cooperate with, and what influence it might have on the price trend over time. I believe that those with whom the Right wants to cooperate have both toy money and a much more irresponsible approach to the use of oil money in Norwegian industry and in terms of the competitiveness of the mainland industry, not least in terms of the price of crowns.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3605	There are several important industries for Norway: fishing, food, tourism, but the three that have been most prominent in relation to an export-oriented situation are the petroleum industry, the power industry and industry. We finally received an oil message after six years of red-green government – after major conflicts. But the industry and the power industry are still missing a message. The opposition has made a number of proposals that an energy message should be submitted. We first got no to that, then it became yes, then it became no, then it became yes, then it became no – and it applies today. The same thing we tried to do for the industry, precisely because there is so much good in Norwegian business, as much good in industry as we should develop further, make sure that there are framework conditions that make it possible that when there are difficult markets out in Europe, outside the world, it is Norwegian industry that will survive and not be closed down. This is about being able to compete on the margins; it is about making sure that the framework conditions are more interesting in Norway than in other countries. Unfortunately, the government is failing in some areas. Yes, there is much of what was mentioned both by the Council of State, by Heggø and by Aasland, which is good, and the Progress Party has supported all of this. But then there's a lot of this that's not good enough, and some of that goes directly in the wrong direction. It's e.g. it is not sufficient to demonstrate that a guarantee scheme has been put in place for the industry when no industrial holding has put it into service at present. Then it doesn't have much value. The industry was tricked into thinking that if you got a red-green government, there would be an industrial power regime that became better than what they could achieve in the market. What we see is that all of those who have entered into power contracts in recent years have entered into them in the market, because the government delivered was not good enough. Then the industry won't sit and wait. The same applies to the CO2 compensation scheme. It's the Progress Party very positive. I'm glad it's being introduced. But when we took it up with former government councillor Erik Solheim in 2007 and with former state councillor Terje Riis-Johansen in 2008, it was rejected. It was not possible to do such things, because it would undermine the climate policy of the government. I'm happy when the government changes policy, but it's not this government that's been pushing; it's this government that's pulled the legs in the syrup. Let me mention the rule of action. It is worth noting that today the SSB has presented new revised figures for investments on Norwegian base. Next year, the investment will be 27 billion. kr higher than this year. The investment level has increased by 13 billion. kr after the government provided its budget, and then gives the impression that if a person spends a little more money on investing in road and rail, it is wrong for the Norwegian economy. But when the oil industry invests on a Norwegian base, which does not remove bottlenecks on the mainland, it is suddenly quite unproblematic. That argument is not valid. Terje Riis-Johansen launched his energy vision in Dagbladet in 2009. All the points have been scrapped today. That's why we need an energy message -- so the Storting decides what the state councils are always saying, but they don't have to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3623	I only have a few brief reflections on the comments of the committee chairman. He forgets a very central theme when we discuss the two-track economy, namely the high cost level of Norwegian enterprises. Labour supply is probably important, but even more important is the level of costs, not least on labour. It's not that we need to adjust it down – we don't get to do that elsewhere than in SAS, it looks like – but we need to look at compensatory measures: what can the public contribute? We already have a number of measures. It is not that there should be aid schemes for industry that are not doing well, it will always be a conversion. But it is important to look at how we prioritise budgets, what can be growth-promoting in the long term, research, knowledge, education, transport, tax relief – all this that is originally in how we should use the additional phase-in of the oil economy in Norwegian business. Otherwise, I think we quite agree on the starting point, except that the government won't make a message now. But it's positive that you want to evaluate it, and I think you're wise to consider it very continuously. As said in previous articles, there is no crisis scenario like that right away, but very many people are concerned that there is a difficult situation. When the representative of Aasland says that there are many good feedbacks when he talks about the NHO economics survey, I think we should rely on statistics rather than on feedback. The government trusts very much in statistics otherwise in describing how good most is in Norway compared to other countries, and that is the case. And we trust that statistics. Let's also rely on both the NHO economics barometer and the OECD survey report from March/April, which said the exact same thing. Let us not derail this important debate with the fact that the Right will not pursue an economically responsible policy. It has been repeated so many times from this pulpit that it is almost unnecessary to underline it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3635	First of all, a little bit about power contracts: one of the reasons why long-term power contracts are now being concluded is that power producers in Norway believe that there will be a very good power situation in the years to come. This is because of active political choices on the part of the government. It's precisely because we want to facilitate good power generation, that we also get these many long-term and good industrial contracts. They have not arisen in a vacuum, they have arisen from a political direction. The second was quotes from Erik Solheim and Terje Riis-Johansen when it came to CO2 compensation. Well, they were absolutely right, because at the time they answered, it was impossible to implement it, because this had to happen within an EU legislation that had not been completed. I could have said, of course, that it was a new Minister of Economic Affairs who had to put it in place, but unfortunately that was not the case, so it was the European Union that had to go through with its legislation, so that we had something to do with it. We are the first country to introduce such a comprehensive CO2 compensation system, so once again, here we are also in the front. So that was the last point, that the biggest danger in the Norwegian industry is just Solvik-Olsen, who says – think of that reasoning – that since the oil industry will invest next year even more than it was due to when we made the budget, 13 billion. kr more, then we can release in all other areas, cf. Now it's even faster outboard than we thought before, so now it's really about pressing on the gas. It's a pointless reasoning – if it's not unparliamentary. It is to hold back the use of money, to follow the rule of action that the Progress Party has never respected, which is the most important for the competitive industry. It's the one that gets hit when the krone price gets strong, it's the one that gets hit when the cost level gets high, and it's the one that gets hit if we get even stronger pressure in the Norwegian economy. So, in the interests of the competitive industry, we have to be able to end the rule of action. It's just that the Empire speaks for itself. Only in the province of Solvik-Olsen have more new jobs been created since the red-green government took over, than in the whole of Norway at the time the Right Party and the Progress Party were overthrown. So for the sake of Solvik-Olsen's own citizens and voters, we just get to intersect our fingers and hope that red-green policies continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3652	I want to start with a little story. ROI established itself on the island of Her Island a little over a year ago. This was an Austrian owned company with great experience, not least from Asia and China, and they were to start establishing in Norway. Their feedback was that they couldn't really get the full rust system, how one could go in and establish a large and heavy industry. It was an investment of 1 billion. kr — actually based on an old industrial tradition, which takes up production again. Not least to clarify the relationship to a power contract was doing very well. That's what's great about the guarantee system. When it was adopted in Stortinget, both power suppliers and industry began negotiating. So 11 contracts have been concluded in the last two years. I am convinced that it has its direct reason for clarifying the relationship with this guarantee scheme, which lies as a foundation and can be used if it is appropriate. But there is nothing wrong with – and perhaps even a representative from the Progress Party itself should be pleased – that it is concluded on commercial terms. Then I've never accused the Right of gambling with the rule of action. What I asked the representative Fleet about was what considerations he has about the party Fleet will cooperate with after the 2013 Grand Prix, if they come in majority. I might ask the representative Fletten specifically now, in the light of the fact that Mr Solvik-Olsen just explained that the investment appropriations on the Norwegian base are now adjusted – 26 billion. kr: Is it then a correct reasoning in the view of the fleet, the Solvik-Olsen makes when he says that there can also be a strong basis for increasing investment or the use of state money in mainland Norway? Is that a reasoning Fleet comfortable with?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3661	It's interesting to hear the lines, because there's no substance, it's just an attempt to confuse about the Progress Party. Let's take what's the fasit after eight years of red-green rule. The level of investment in industry is at a record low level. It's been 40 years since it was as low as it is now if you look at the mainland industry. The oil industry is going down, and we're very happy about that. I should just have wanted the industry on land to see the same bright future as the industry at sea. The fasitator is that there are a lot of good arrangements, of which the Progress Party has partly supported all of them. Yeah, they're there, but it's obviously not enough for one to do what we want. Power contracts are one of the points. There has never been any prohibition on power contracts in the market, but what this government promised if it was elected was that there should be something better than going into the market for power contracts, namely getting an industrial power system. So when the government has now delivered this guarantee system, you can see that no one has used it. To say that there's reason to take credit for it, when you see that one goes into the power market, is the opposite logic of what's fact. When one goes into the power market despite the fact that the government has opened up a system, it only shows that the power market is better than the government has supplied. It is not a success criterion for the government, but the opposite. But it is obvious that industry sees no need to sit any longer and wait for policy solutions. They take the spoon in their own hand, and they solve this. The market is working, and the government has failed. In the case of GASMAKS, that's good. The Progress Party has supported it, and we proposed to strengthen it. The problem is that when someone makes proposals to the gas-based industry, like Alcoa, who aired the possibility of having a gas-based aluminium plant in Finnmark, the Workers' Party was out and said that we can't have it because of climate policy. It shows that the policy as a leader is one climate policy and another industrial policy. When a non-industry message is linked, self-contradictory results are obtained. As far as the CO2 compensation scheme is concerned, I think the Trond Giske State Council should go and see what was the reason for Solheim and Riis-Johansen. It wasn't a technical reason, as the council here gave the impression, but it was a principleal reason. What they said was that introducing compensation for CO2 costs would violate the principle that CO2 should have a price. Ergo was wrong, what the Council of State said in the pulpit here. Finally, the Action Rule: The Progress Party does not want to release the use of money. We want to reduce growth in the public sector, and then we want to strengthen investment opportunities in infrastructure and research. The SSB has calculated our conversion of the State budget to show that we will have higher GDP, higher employment, lower inflation and lower interest rates. All these are good indicators for industry. The working party will have to continue to paint black, but the SSB's fasitizer shows something completely different, and that's what the industry can look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3689	The representative of Svein Flätten has spoken twice earlier in the debate and, in this regard, he is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3692	The chairperson of the Committee is very concerned – as always – with finding out whether the Right is inconvenient with the policy of the Progress Party, and it is usually best to draw out individual statements such as: «investment in the oil industry versus mainland industry». I remind the representative of Aasland that we have a budget of well over 1 000 billion. kr, with relatively large opportunities for re-priorities, and I assume that the representative Aasland listened even more closely to Ketil Solvik-Olsen than he listens to me. When I hear statements like ‘do not release the money’, it of course warms a right heart and makes you feel very comfortable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3699	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3714	There is no proposal for a debate here. That means that the rapporteur on the matter, who is the only person who has spoken, has a speaking time limited to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3717	As rapporteur of the case, I present a unanimous opinion from the Economic and Social Committee. The very purpose of the inclusion of this Directive is to improve maritime safety, to prevent pollution by ships and thus to reduce the risk of future marine casualties. The Directive needs to be seen in the context of the IMO Code, which was completely revised in May 2008. There is now more committed cooperation between the investigative authorities in the EU. There are requirements for both countries and individuals, and there are rules on which marine casualties are to be investigated, who is to be responsible for the investigations, and the procedures to be followed. The Directive imposes an obligation of investigation and lays down the principal responsibilities and responsibilities of investigation where the accident affects several Member States. A general principle is that parallel studies should not be conducted. There is a requirement for an independent body to conduct the investigation and for them to have free access to any relevant study area. It is established that the information obtained during the study shall not be used for purposes other than maritime safety. The Committee's position is promoted by a unanimous Advisory Committee, as I said, and is also supported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3732	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3746	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3755	Prop. 142 S for 2011–2012 about Secora AS – the financial framework – most of us thought it would be a fairly simple and quick matter. Either you agreed or you disagreed. But after the case went its way, it turned out that a sale including a loan of 50 million. kr resulted in a number of questions to the Council of State. The matter was suddenly not quite that simple for all of us. We see this from the comments of different parties. There are also places where the Committee fortunately agrees in its comments. The Committee's recommendation is that, with all parties except the Advance Party, Secora AS can be converted into a 50 million loan. kr to equity within the maturity of the loan. I assume that those parties that need to explain why do so in their posts. For the Progress Party, it has always been a clear idea to support a state-owned company – in this case Secora AS – with 50 million. kr would be the wrong use of public funds. Secora AS was founded in 2004/2005, when the Production Unit of the Coastal Plant was separated into its own company. The company has an administrative center in Svolvær and has approx. 110 to 120 employees. Since its establishment, the company has had difficulty delivering satisfactory results. For the treatment of Prop. 83 S for 2010-2011 was authorised to sell the State’s shares in Secora AS or to merge the company with an industrial operator. The company is 100 pst. State-owned. Since the fall of 2011, it has been working to sell the company, but it has not been an easy task when you have had the relatively poor operating results to show, and there are also several private companies competing for the same jobs where Secora AS is located. It is here that there will be errors of the Progress Party to support the case. The progress party believes it is wrong to support a state-owned company with a loan of 50 million. kr when this company competes with other private companies for the same jobs. It would probably have been something different if Secora AS had been a company where only this had had competence and equipment, etc. to perform a certain kind of task, but when you compete with others, this is going to be a mistake for us. The fact that a company can go bankrupt without the introduction of capital is something that is everyday for the private business, and then it cannot be such that state companies are satisfied in this way. The Party considers that it is not a public task to engage in commercial activities in direct competition with private operators. During the Committee's time, a number of questions have been sent, as I mentioned earlier. This includes, among other things: referred to the selling price of the company, the number of stakeholders it has been during the process and how it ended up with one. Another important question was whether the sale was 100 pst. depending on a loan guarantee – something that was certain. They also asked about any other conditions and valuations of Secora AS, which was answered that the valuation was 61.5 million. kr. This case shows us that the state is not always the right to engage in business, at least not when there are many private operators in the same market. The progress party has nothing against the sale itself or who gets it, but to get a loan of 50 million. kr will be the wrong use of public money. That is why the Progress Party is voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3778	I want to start a little bit with history. Secora was established in 2005 to distinguish between the authority tasks of the Coastal Plant and clean production tasks that can be translated into a market. The company should be run on a commercial basis. The objective of the country's ownership in Secora was to contribute to good industrial and commercial development in the company. As the Advocate General said, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade authorised Stortinget to sell Secora's axles or merge the company with an industrial operator. The starting point for the government to ask for such an authorisation was that the State that owns has limited the ability to supply the company with the industrial skills required by Secora. Since the fall of 2011, it has been working to sell the company, and Secora has been struggling to deliver satisfactory wages during the period. Therefore, the government came to Stortinget and asked for a three-year loan – I repeat: three-year loan – under market conditions. The government believes there is a significant risk that the company without the injection of capital, cannot discharge its obligations, and thus go bankrupt. This view shares the red-green plurality of the committee. On 16 November of this year, an agreement was reached on the transfer of the State's axles in Secora to Torghatten ASA. This hall was under the authority of the loan. The Working Party, SV and the Center Party indicate that a loan is the most commercially reasonable solution in order to avoid a potential loss of value for the State. The Christian People’s Party and the Right also recognize that the loan may be necessary. It does not make the progress party. There's 116 added to Secora. The square garden can be a long-term good industrial owner of Secora. We have an obligation to each of these 116 to try to do our best to make this a very good solution. The Torghatten also took care of the head office that Stortinget requested that the company be associated with Nord-Noreg, and that this should be emphasised. I have also noticed that in order to get a good salsa process, where all potential interests should be able to participate, the time when the process began to be published – which is not usual at all. I would also like to mention that all three of the three who submitted binding bids on Secora, provide the state with permission and pay the loan to Secora AS. This is also not unique in the sale of a company; the seller assumes a guarantee liability towards the buyer. Being a good owner is, in the red-green's view, the best and most commercially reasonable. Then the solution, if you want to avoid a potential loss of value, is to give this responsible loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3815	Right is to reduce state ownership, it's well-known. There's a lot of ways to do it. One of the worst ways is for companies to break up. While we want to reduce state ownership, it is that when we are owners, we also have a responsibility to act in a clean and responsible way toward the companies. That's why in this case we say yes to the transaction that is now coming. Of course, the sale we had hoped would have come earlier, and the value could have been greater – there are no de facto values again. But we see that it is necessary to give this guarantee. What we assume is that you follow up your loan exposure and use the means available from the creditor to promote the most efficient and cost-reduction of Secora. There's not much you can do about it in the future. But such a large guarantor and creditor could, of course, have a significant impact, not least through the conditions, which are initially market-oriented. Besides that, I don't think there's any reason to say a lot about this. There is an unfortunate situation that has arisen. We have long thought that the company should be sold – for several reasons, not ideologically to reduce ownership, but because we thought it could work better in a different way. Now it also turns out that the department and government have found out that there are private owners that you actually think can take this further in a good way. That is why we are also advised to do what is in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3824	In June 2011, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade was authorised to sell the State’s shares in Secora or to merge the company with an industrial operator. The background for this was recognition that the company had limited opportunities to achieve industrial growth on its own. The government considered and believes that the State that owns has limited opportunities to supply the company with the industrial skills it needs to carry out such growth. The assessment was that stronger industrial owners were needed to exploit the growth potential of the company. This must also be seen in conjunction with the fact that the company operates in a competitive market and that the State has only business objectives with ownership. The Ministry started a sales process in autumn 2011. We've focused on having an open and broad process, where the goal has been to find a sustainable solution for Secora and to focus on the company's relationship with North Norway after this was put as a premise during the treatment of the government's proposal for sales, while the ministry has had a focus on maximising the country's values by seeking the highest possible price for the state's shares. The Ministry has wanted to add to a process where all stakeholders could participate. Therefore, the Ministry published in October 2011 that the sales process had begun, which is not common in that type of transaction. The Ministry's adviser has sent enquiries to 34 potential buyers nationally and internationally and has met with 13 potential buyers. The sales process has been demanding, including: as a result of the company's poor financial performance. This is probably also the reason why the State received only three binding bids. Following an overall assessment, the Ministry chose to conclude a sale agreement with Torghatten ASA on 16 November this year. Torghatten is one of Norway’s largest transport companies and is based in Brønnøysund and also has maritime entrepreneurship through the subsidiary Maritime Venture. Of the present, the Torghatten appears to be the industrial and financial best buyer of Secora. Torghatt will also take over Secora's debt. A sale reserves the right to review the assessment of the Competition Authority and that the State that sells grants a loan to the company in line with the Ministry's proposed proposal for the Stortinget. All three binding offers had the same premise that the Storting granted loans to the company. The Ministry promoted the proposal to grant a loan to Secora in June. The background to the government's proposal was and is that Secora has delivered weak economic results. The weak operational development has led to a deterioration in the liquidity situation. The situation is so serious that it is challenging to ensure continued operation within a sound framework. Measures that could bring the company out of the demanding liquidity situation are necessary to enable the company to operate properly in the future and to enable it to be sold. Through the agreement with Torghatten, we have come up with a solution that can facilitate the development of Secora, which is in line with the leaders set up for a sale. The alternative to sale, including the granting of a loan in line with the government’s proposal, is likely to be bankruptcy, with the consequences and uncertainties that this entails for the State and for the company – and not least for the employees. This is about showing a responsible ownership. I am pleased that all parties on the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3850	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3853	As the Council of State explained, 34 requests have been sent out, there have been 13 meetings, and it has ended up with three that were seriously interested – to put it that way – and then it ended up with one buyer. Then comes my question, which should not be misunderstood: can you then say that Secora AS has been poorly driven for various reasons from 2005 until now, when you know at the same time that other similar companies have survived this period and gone into positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3860	There are many and complex reasons why Secora has had a challenging situation. Secora has also survived, but has been in deficit for some years. There may be structural reasons — the size of the company. Of course, it may also be that some choices have been made over these years that have not been good enough, but the most important thing for us now is that we find a good solution for the company. That is what I believe our proposal and what the Storting has joined us to mean. There is also a risk of being the owner that not all companies are going as well. The more important it is to show accountability and to find a good solution to continue both the values, competences and not least the jobs in such a company.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3865	I thank the Council of State for the answer and have another question. What is the difference between a state-owned company that goes bankrupt if, for example, it does. not be allowed to borrow 50 million. NOK 50 million and an equivalent private company. NOK not to go bankrupt? Does the Council of State think there's any difference there?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3873	Nor is it unusual in private transactions for the seller to make some form of financial credit or loan facility available to a company. I have to remind you that when Torghatten now buys Secora, they also assume the obligations that the company has – the debt and obligations as part of the agreement – so that there are quite great values in it as well. It is also the case that the winding-up of a company is not necessarily free — it may also entail costs — and a private operator would be able to act exactly as the State does in this case. There is also reason to stress that the loan is to be granted on market terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3878	Both the Council of State and the spokespersons of the Workers' Party indicated that the State has limited possibilities for the provision of industrial competence. It's clearly a fact here. But does the Council of State think that there is a statement that you might also need to take further into the state ownership, so that you can go in and make decisions based on the fact that you sometimes see limited opportunities to acquire skills before you stand on the steps of the law of change?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3883	It may be possible to make arrangements and assessments in the past that had given a different direction – it is very difficult to write such counterfactual history. We just get to register that we're where we are, and that this is a very special market. The history of Secora was also special, with a separation from public activities. This has a historical background, which has led us to where we are. We believe that the company needs to enter a larger industrial environment in order to develop its competitiveness. That's the same thing we say about SAS too, so this is not necessarily related to size – while other businesses that we have, we believe that we are very well equipped to own and continue as the companies are. The said representative refers to, was a very company-specific assessment of this, not a general view of state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3890	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3893	Yes, we are pleased with this solution for the company Secora. I come from Lofoten where the company Secora is established, and I know the meaning of having such a company in the region. As it emerges from the case, the company – as has been said here – has come into a very difficult economic situation due to poor financial performance, and there has long been uncertainty about the company, which has, of course, worn out its employees. Therefore, we are very pleased that we are today to adopt a good solution for this company. I record from the press release from Torghatten, with the director at the head, that they, together with the staff in Secora, will further develop the company to become an even stronger player in maritime entrepreneurship. The Torghatt also believes that their industrial approach could contribute to the further development of the company, and the Director now looks forward to building on the potential and competence of this company, Secora. In addition, Torghatten wishes to continue to have the company established in Svolvær with local management. I can tell you that there are a lot of people who are very happy and very relieved about it. Secora's CEO is also pleased that it is Torghatten who is now taking over. The same is true of the Chief Trust Committee, which heads 116 employees. They are relieved that the sale is over, and are also satisfied that it was a Nordic company that was promised. They also say that now it's only going one way, and it's going up. I am pleased with this optimism that the employees are now showing. All of this is in line with the government's intention of selling, which is to find a good and sustainable solution for Secora and to focus on the company's relationship with North Norway. It's only going to have to do with the Principal Sumulation of the Advance Party in this case, if that's the way it's supposed to be. The alternative would have been that the company had gone bankrupt. In this way I point out that the Progress Party would, as has been said, vote against the proposal, and they also say in their comment that the result of poor ownership management is now being seen by the government. I would rather say so: For the company Secora, the employees and the buyer, we see good ownership management from the government in this case. For us, the most important thing has been to find a good industrial owner of Secora, so that valuable competence in the field is now being continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3908	So the debate is on case No. 12 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3914	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3922	71 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-11, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 12-14, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 15-62 and 71, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Party for Progress, 63-68, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 69, by Øyvind Halleraker, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 70, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 70, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a Universal Design Status Report in all transport areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3958	There is a vote on proposal No. 69, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of OPS financing and organisation for the following projects in 2013: E39 Rådal–Svegatjørn E18 Akershus–Riksgrensen/Örje E18 West Corridor Railway project Bergen–Arna [[Oslo-Akershus]] [[Ulrikstunnelen]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e3987	There is a vote on proposal No. 65, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present an action plan for increased cycling among children and young people.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4002	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 63 and 64 and proposals Nos. 66–68, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 63 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit a strategy and financing plan for electric vehicle charging stations and infrastructure.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State reward scheme for the route and cycle.’ Proposal No. 66 reads: ‘The government asks the government to draw up its own case on alternative forms of financing and organisation, and to describe both road and rail projects for which it may be appropriate after professional judgement.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present its own case for measures to increase the use of alcohol.’ Proposal No. 68 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case for the possible realization of the City Tunnel as a OPS project.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4041	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-22, Nos. No 24, 26–28, Nos. 30-33, Nos. 35-62 and Nos. 71, from the Party of Progress: Proposal No. 16 reads: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of transport charges and charges, with proposals for a future strategy for the use of charges and charges in the pursuit of national transport policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to submit its own case as soon as possible for the state financing of debt in existing toll companies and for projects adopted but not initiated where toll financing is undertaken on the basis of the State taking over or redeeming the debt.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is requesting State funding of debts of existing toll companies, etc., to propose the use of new financing tools to ensure the necessary development of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network in Norway over a maximum of 25 years based on full state funding.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that annual toll payment and use schedules are drawn up on all types of roads as long as toll financing is provided for the construction and operation of infrastructure and that such an overview is provided to the Storting annually in an appropriate manner.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the repeal of § 27 and § 27A of the Act 21 June 1963 No. 23 Road Laws.’» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the major cities is coordinated with the Railway Agency, and that such development is part of the development of a traffic nodal point where several modes of transport are directly linked. The government is asking the government to present its own case on this matter.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an administrative audit of the Urban Railway project in Bergen, both of investment and operations, and of the achievement of the objectives of the Bergen public transport network in terms of objectives and premises in the Bergen programme.’ Proposal No. 24 reads: ‘The government asks the government to determine intermodal nodes in Bergen/Flesland and Trondheim/Værnes’. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a free ferry system on the national road network.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘During 2013, the government is asked to provide a financing solution for the implementation of a national broadband lift with the objective of high-speed broadband across Norway.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan to simplify legislation so that broadband deployment is not unnecessarily expensive.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘During 2013, the Government asks the Government to present its own notification on the modernisation of Norwegian aviation policy based on the ‘Norwegian aviation strategy’ of June 2008, submitted reports on aviation safety in Norwegian aviation, and Document No. 8:16 [[2008-2009]] Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks to include the non-state airports of Stord, Notodden and Ski in the cross-subsidisation system currently operated between State airports.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The government asks in connection with the work of the State budget for 2014 to share the day's cape. Item 23 of a number of budget headings 1320 to clarify the amount allocated to the individual purposes of the current item.’.» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to have the driving test carried out under the supervision of traffic schools approved for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government requests unrated driving licences for persons under 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the replacement of additional peak load in the event of road traffic accidents for drivers between 18 and 24 with additional training requirements and points out in particular that such training should be carried out in cooperation with the road safety halls.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The size is requested by the government to approve 120 km/h as the speed limit on the best motorways’.» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a complaint concerning a system for the classification and periodic approval of the road network in Norway.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: «The Government is asked to incorporate legal liability into the Road Traffic Code for accidents caused by road keepers.» Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to explore the possibilities and effects of establishing a functional and decommissioning system of ring roads leading to traffic away from Oslo City, based on Rv. 23, Rv. 35 and Rv. 120, alternatively rv. 22nd@item: inlistbox ‘... Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an action plan to be drawn up by the Government with a view to a forced replacement of the ferries in the national road corridors.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to waive the requirement for new ferries to be gas fuelled.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a national express bus strategy by the end of 2013.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: «The government asks in connection with the work of the State budget for 2014 to share the day's cape. 1350 item 23 in two, so that the railway works budget has two separate items for operation and maintenance.» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a financing plan for the construction of Ringeriksbanen in connection with the State budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is specifically asked to take action to steer the active development of railway development in Bergen both as part of collective action in the major cities and as part of the national strategy on the development of transport nodes. The size points in particular to the need to do this in order for such a project to be included in the new national transport plan 2014-2023.» Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asking for statistics on direct and indirect energy consumption for the various modes of transport to be compiled.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the increased use of TBM in the case of tenders for new road and rail sections.’ [[TunnelBoreMachines]] Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to open up the competitive opening of all sections of Norway.’ Proposal No. 50 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit a case on financing and development of major transport projects of national importance, irrespective of the national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to apply State regulation to all expansion projects on the national road network and the rail network’.» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is calling for much greater use of life-cycle centre prices and total contractor prices in the construction of large road and rail projects.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a separate case on financing tools for investments in the transport sector. The size assumes that this is done independently of the treatment of a new national transport plan.’» Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘During 2013, the government is asked to present its own case for the renewal, simplification and efficiency of work on national transport plans, in particular adapted to stronger governance of the national and national roads.’ Proposal No. 55 reads: ‘The government is asked to notify during 2013 of the development and financing of a modern and efficient network of traffic routes for the period 2013 to 2040.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the full state financing of Oslopackak 3 in the context of the revised national budget for 2013 in order to put an end to the toll collection by the end of 2013.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer responsibility for ports and fairways from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast to the Ministry of Transport in connection with the State budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government’s draft government budget for 2014 calls for the gradual phasing-out of the unloading charge in Norway except Svalbard over a four-year period.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately start work on the lifting of the submarine U-864 and the removal of the mercury cargo in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland. The size assumes that, in parallel with this work, there is a case in the Storting on schedule and clear funding.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an action plan for the management of all shipwrecks along the Norwegian coast.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan with the corresponding funding for the necessary upgrading and renewal of the Coast Guard Depot equipment and the Coast Guards’ own vessels to reinforce coastal oil protection.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all public-sector actions relating to accidents and emissions, routinely as part of a permanent evaluation plan, are also audited by the National Audit Office.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government to provide rapid clarification on the location of 3rd runway on the OSL Gardermoen, with a view to faster start of construction for the necessary capacity increase’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4280	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 23, 25 and 34, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a comprehensive and comprehensive overview of the overall road network with state information is drawn up. [[Rice, county and municipal roads]] The statement shall be submitted to the Stortinget together with proposals for the State budget for the first time by the submission of the State budget for 2014.’.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to transfer responsibility for public transport from the respective counties to the municipalities of Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up its own node plan to ensure good node solutions where several modes of transport meet.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate driver training and to increase the commitment to supervision of driver training as soon as possible in order to improve quality.’ The right has notified that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4314	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the scope, content and costs of the current system of safety measures at Norwegian airports are reviewed with a view to reducing costs without reducing safety.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4330	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12-14, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for a reward scheme to secure the school roads.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Railway Agency into State undertakings’. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests the start of the construction of the City Ship Tunnel based on the option Large Tunnel as soon as possible, and submit proposals for the necessary additional appropriations for the revision of the 2013 national budget. The majority asks the government to ensure that funds are put in place if this is necessary in order to keep progress on the matter.’ The voting boards showed that there were 72 votes against and 27 votes in favour of the proposals of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.28.32]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4354	I think I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4359	Let's try it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4370	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, 7 and 10 from the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a higher speed for mopeds.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is calling for a case to be brought forward by the government to reverse the administrative reform in the field of transport, so that those more than 17 000 km along other national roads transferred to the county municipalities on 1 January 2010 are returned to the State.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the standard of operation and maintenance in accordance with the applicable manual 111 continue to apply to the other national road networks even after transfer to the counties.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up national guidelines on the quality and quantity of TT transport as soon as possible and to propose a financing mechanism for TT transport in line with national guidelines.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better use of the Oslo Tunnel capacity through reduced train follow-up time and station stay’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a system which automatically gives persons who are bound by their property for infrastructure purposes the right to redeem the properties at market value immediately after the plans have been approved.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e4412	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. One, six, eight, nine and eleven of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the route-ATK as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the work of the Alnabru Terminal to be carried out by cancelling the plan and the development of an external operator through tenders.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the exclusive right of Post Norway AS for letter items below 50 grams and to remove the concession requirement for Saturday mail distribution from 1 January 2013. Saturday newspaper assignment of the post is assumed to be maintained.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that external quality assurance reports for large-scale State investment projects are published as soon as they are available.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and replace today’s demands for state redundancies with demands for state-authorised losers or similar, so that the state monopoly of the loosing is abolished.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6103	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will vote against. The roll-call boards showed that the Committee's position was approved by 52 votes to 47. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.30.44]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6112	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6117	Let's try it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6155	The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6311	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6444	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide its own overview of the state financing of railway activities in Norway through the activities of the Railway Agency and the NSB.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6851	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on point II.1 and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, which reads: «The size adopts the extension of the E39 Eiganes tunnel in line with the report given in Prop. [[2012-2013]] 36 S and Prop 109 S based on full state funding. [[2011-2012]] The size asks the government to provide for an advance if this is necessary to ensure the progress of the project. The size assumes that state funding is included in the revised national budget 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6867	The Committee's position is then put to the vote at I and II (2).
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6881	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:5 S [[2012-2013]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6894	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6911	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the development of today’s fv. 33 Skreifjella-Totenvika as described in Prop. 6 S and with State funding of a total of 340 million. That's $178 million. crowns are covered from Item 62 Grants for racial protection on the county road network. [[2012-2013]] The size assumes that the municipality of Uppland contributes 85 million. crowns as shown in the financial plan presented in the case. Furthermore, the size assumes that the State’s contribution is accelerated, if necessary, in order to keep the case moving forward and that final budgetary recovery for the State’s contribution is made in the revised national budget for 2013.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6943	During the debate, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the implementation of the Data Storage Directive be postponed indefinitely.’ The left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e6972	A total of 38 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1–15, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 16-24, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 25-38, from Inge Hallgeir Solli on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 25–27, 29–33 and 35–38, from the left. Proposal No. 25 reads: ‘The government is asking for a minimum deduction of NOK 100000 for all self-employed persons as an alternative to deduction of actual costs.’ Proposal No. 26 reads: ‘The government is asked to amend the rules for the payment of advance tax on self-employed persons so that tax is paid in arrears per quarter and not in advance of the current legislation.’ Proposal No. 27 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to raise its sales limits to 2 million. crowns for the right to the annual task term relating to. the payment and reporting of VAT.’» Proposal No. 29 reads: ‘The government is asking for exemption from the employer’s fee for start-ups with up to 5 employees for up to 3 years.’ Proposal No. 30 reads: «The government is asked to introduce a CapitalFunn scheme whereby a tax deduction of up to SEK 20 per cent/500 000 is granted for long-term investments in start-ups.» [[minimum 3 years]] Proposal No. 31 reads: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce a grant scheme for so-called unremunerated research efforts.’ Proposal No. 32 reads: ‘The government asks the government to raise the maximum savings in compulsory occupational pension-like schemes for self-employed persons to a maximum of 6 per cent.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit an obliging escalation plan in order to equalise the entitlement of self-employed persons to sickness benefits equivalent to 100 per cent compensation after 16 days.’ Proposal No. 35 reads: ‘The government asks in the context of the revised national budget in 2013 to double the system of nationwide institutional grants managed by Innovation Norway.’ Proposal No. 36 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the nationwide innovation loan scheme under Innovation Norway by 250 million. crowns related to the revised national budget 2013.’» Proposal No. 37 reads: ‘The government is asked to establish a grant scheme for innovative public acquisitions under Innovation Norway’. Proposal No. 38 reads: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen SIVA’s incubator strategy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7056	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 28, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce exemptions from the employer’s fee for apprentices.» The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7072	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 34, on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests a reduction in the fees related to reporting and registration at the Brønnøsund Registers.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7088	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22-24, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that local self-government is strengthened in land matters by proposing that the provisions on national expectations for regional and municipal planning, state planning guidelines and state planning provisions be removed, that the possibility of promoting objectivity is removed only from the discretion of the State, and that State authorities can only review exemptions where it can be demonstrated that the exemption from the construction ban would clearly infringe the rights of all persons in the area.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the concept of ‘non-interventional natural areas’ is no longer given weight in dealing with land-related matters in state administrative bodies.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose, during 2012, changes to the county’s tasks, where these are restricted to legal controls only in order to safeguard the rights of individuals with regard to the municipal administration and to keep the municipalities within the limits of adopted laws.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7114	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-21, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the inheritance tax law so that the inheritance tax can be removed in the long term in order to facilitate a generational shift.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a broad assessment of the measures during the autumn of 2012 and to propose tax arrangements that may allow several employees to become partners in their own enterprise, including an increase in the amount of the employee’s purchase of shares in their own enterprise.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a low-threshold innovation exchange in order to create a stronger link between private savings capital and small and medium-sized enterprises at an early stage. The objective shall be to facilitate the access of these enterprises to capital at an early stage of the development of the enterprise.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: «The Government asks the Government to strengthen vocational training in line with Document 8:52 S [[2009-2010]] Proposal No. Twenty sounds. ‘The government is asking for several research projects to be submitted in order to ensure that several relevant research environments are given the opportunity to contribute to their competence.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to encourage several municipalities to make free user choices in the care sector.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7158	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit its own notification of the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway as soon as possible, and no later than in the spring of 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7172	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–15 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the strengthening of private ownership and to make proposals for reduced taxes on ownership. New and better framework conditions must eliminate the tax on working capital.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked, by the end of 2012, to carry out an overall review of the terms and conditions of individual undertakings, and to propose concrete improvements specifically related to fiscal non-discrimination, social rights, simplification measures, access to capital and the means and efforts of the public instrument.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the care allowance system for sick children for self-employed persons and to ensure that unfair discrimination against workers is eliminated. This applies, inter alia, to self-employed persons with more than two children or with chronically ill children or who are self-employed persons.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government asks the government to increase the pace of business simplification and implement proposals in line with Document 8:96 S [[2011-2012]] Proposals Nos. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case on how the Tax Fund Scheme can be made simpler, more flexible and thus more attractive.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to simplify the application process in Innovation Norway, inter alia, with the intention of reducing the need for external consultant assistance from the applicant.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of new capital into seed funds.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a user guide for public-private innovation cooperation, in particular organised for service innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the apprenticeship system through increased apprenticeship grants.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in intra-corporate training efforts and to facilitate the use of the scheme in the event of less shifts than is the case today.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to develop its own financing mechanism for Professor II positions, so that businesses are given stronger incentives to finance such positions.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the State budget for 2013, for proposals for a neutral value added tax for central government to ensure that public and private actors can compete on the same lines as government procurement.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase investment in infrastructure and to facilitate public-private cooperation as a form of organisation for new transport projects.’ [[OPS]] Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate and propose changes to the tax law so that municipalities can retain a share of the corporate tax.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7274	In the course of the debate, a total of 30 proposals have been put forward by Mr T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-30, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate statistical reporting forms so that non-activity issues are not asked repeatedly.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests that forms be submitted by electronic means in connection with the follow-up of sick leave.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to replace quarterly statistical reporting for external trade via IDUN with annual statistical reporting, possibly through increased use of estimates in the reporting.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce an obligation to re-use data, so that the business community does not have to report the same data on a number of occasions, and to provide systems to prevent enterprises from providing structural statistics by taking the data from the business task instead.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the possibility of changing the deadline for the reporting of salary statistics from the beginning of January to the end of January.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to improve Altin and to propose simpler procedures to log on to the Altins so that the Executive Director or the Chairperson does not necessarily have to sign.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend Altinn by ‘Altut’, i.e. secure two-way electronic communications with business as a whole.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests the prompt provision of event-related reporting in the pay field for tax, tax and employer charges, including the extent to which this involves business simplification.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests the revision of the number of codes in the pay and draw tasks with a view to reducing the number of codes.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for speeding up the EDAG project with a view to reducing the scope of forms, so that the tax rate generates wages and salaries for itself and that this form, as well as the annual tasks of employers’ fees, future tasks for employers’ taxes and tax deductions, and the statement of control of the amounts recorded and reported, can be removed’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks it to produce simpler and better solutions for page 4 of the business assignment for the allocation of personal income to industries.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to limit business reporting to customs by not filling in declarations of goods for each import or export but moving to forward declarations.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to simplify the deduction system for quotas and to ask for an assessment of whether more stencil rules can be used with a monetary ceiling.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to impose direct deductions for R & D costs.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to review the rules of the Tax Act with a view to reducing differences in assessment in relation to accounting assessments.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that representation be tax deductible up to an appropriate amount around the current level and that the conditions for deductibility are simplified.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to propose as soon as possible that the audit thresholds be calculated on a consolidated basis, in order to see the turnover, balance sheet total and the total number of annual works of companies controlled by the same ownership. The purpose is also to exempt small group parent companies from the audit obligation.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the audit obligation for partnerships with more than five employees and less than five million. crowns in turnover shall be cancelled.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the founders of small companies to decide whether the annual accounts should be audited.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the statutory special statements of the statutory auditor with a view to removing those who do not defend costs in relation to benefits.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider revoking the annual report requirement for small enterprises’.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review and implement reasonable simplifications in accordance with the recommendations of the Accounting Standard Board.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to incorporate event-driven reporting for the shareholder registry task.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose to remove the requirement of opening balance by the formation of a company.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to introduce a general rule in the Share Exchange Act on written proceedings, as well as more flexible rules on what is considered to be a meeting.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to coordinate the shareholders' book and the shareholders' register of the tax administration.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review and submit proposals to implement reasonable simplifications in accordance with the recommendations of the Gudmund Knudsen Committee.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government requests the coordinated registration of company names, trade mark and domain names.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to repeal the Conversion Act.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose to reverse the requirement that notification to the competition authorities should contain the names of the five main competitors, customers and suppliers in the markets of the undertakings concerned.» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7461	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to report every six months on the achievement of the government’s simplification commitment based on the standard cost approach, preferably in the context of the presentation of the State budget and the revision of the national budget.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7482	The President wants to take the vote again. This time it was the President who voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7500	During the debate, Rigmor Andersen Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the promotion of a growth report on the industry’s environment during the current period.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7608	The progress party has announced that it wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-06.ana.ud599e7629	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
