ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e184	Honourable co-representatives! Former prime minister and central councilman Anton Skulberg is dead, almost 91 years old. Anton Skulberg, a socialist, followed up as a professor, veterinarian, director and politician, and as a voice and warm fellow human being. The popular veterinarian from Spydeberg was supposed to be full of lists for the municipal elections in 1964, but was elected by his congregations. At his first municipal board meeting he was elected rapporteur of the village, a position he had for four years. Anton Skulberg was elected to the Stortinget for Eastfold in 1969. He represented the Center Party for eight years. Skulberg was a member of the Church and Education Committee until he became Minister of Church and Education in the government of Korvald from 1972 to 1973. In his last period he was a member of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. Anton Skulberg's strong commitment, personal qualities and broad fields of competence gave him work and trust in a number of areas of society. As a politician and highly esteemed trust elected in the Center Party, Anton Skulberg is remembered with respect and humility. The main basis for his political work was to stick to the realities, to the truth and to what one himself thought was right and correct. That was the way he won political respect. Anton Skulberg was ahead of time in many areas. In the early 1970s, he became involved, among other things. on prevention of mental health protection for children and young people. 40 years ago he warned against an increasing pressure of expectation and that we were creating a stressful everyday life for our children. Of what has been written about Anton Skulberg, there is one thing that overshadows the many evidences of honor, trust and positions he has reached in society, namely his fundamental belief in the good in man. And through life he followed four absolutes: conscience, purity, unselfishness and love. We thank Anton Skulberg for his commitment to the service of society and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e205	The President will draw attention to the fact that there will be a simple voting rather quickly in the meeting, so it is good to be decisive in the Chamber – that is, Unit. The President will come back to that. The representatives Henning Warloe and Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Lars Egeland, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Erling Sande and Borghild Tende on leave from 4 December to 7 December, all to attend the high-level part of the 18th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Climate Convention and the eighth meeting of the 8th Meeting of the Parties under the Kyoto Protocol in Doha, Qatar from the representative of the Øyvind Waxdal on leave from 4 December to 7 December to attend the annual hearing of the Intergovernmental Union at the United Nations General Assembly in New York from the Working Party on the leave of the representative Susanne Bratli on 4 and 5 December to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Dublin. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: Applications shall be dealt with promptly and be accepted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the period of leave: For the East-Agder counties: Marion Gunstveit BojanowskiFor Akershus County: Inge Hallgeir SolliFor Rogaland County: Terje HallelandFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Knut Magnus OlsenFor Troms County: Hanne C. S. IversenFor Nord-Trondelag County: Bord LangsåvoldFor Vestfold County: Heidi M. Tomtum Runningen Representative Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski, Inge Hallgeir Solli, Terje Halleland, Knut Magnus Olsen, Hanne C. S. Iversen, Bård Langsävold and Heidi M. Tomtum The run is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e296	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Geir-Ketil Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Geir-Ketil Hansen are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e306	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 27, Unit, before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The background for that is a proposition that we just heard was superimposed, which has come too late for the Storting, but we're going to do what we can to reach it as quickly as possible. So we need to get it sent to the right committee. Then the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e382	– It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e396	The budgetary area of the Control and Constitutional Committee is probably at least controversial in the Stortinget. We cover Framework Area 14, which includes allocations to the Royal House, to the Stortinget and to the external control bodies of the Stortinge. I will briefly review the various budget headings. The Committee endorses the proposal for the granting of the royal house. We have noticed that the public display for both the Royal Palace and the Oscarshall is popular. The Committee considers this to be a good thing, and we support the proposal for an increase of 3 million. kr to cover the costs involved. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the government parties and the Christian People's Party, also supports the appropriations for the Stortinget. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left all refer to their respective alternative budgets presented in the financial position, where the three parties proposed different reductions in items and chapters under the Stortinget. With regard to the external control bodies of the Storting, I will start with the Ombudsman’s defence title. The Committee has noted that the scope of the complaint is quite stable, but that there is now a growing trend towards complaints from women in the first-time position. The Committee has stressed in its opinion the importance of the seriousness of the fact that some girls in the first-time service are struggling with culture among some lower orders. There is also a call for the Ombudsman to pay particular attention to this issue in dealing with complaints from young women in the first time. The Ombudsman is 50 years old, i.e. the term of office shall be 50 years. The civil officer is probably somewhat older. The Committee congratulates its efforts over these years, and we believe that the Ombudsman is a strong institution in Norway. At the same time, the Committee stresses that the scheme may still appear to be little known, and we ask the Civil Ombudsman in the next annual report to do further work on what can be done to help the institution become even better known. In addition, the Committee unanimously supports the draft budget. So on to the EOS Committee. The selection team regularly supervises the EOS service and relies on sufficient resources to carry out these checks with the necessary thoroughness and to the extent necessary. This control is an important democratic control of the secret services. In this budget position, too, the Committee stresses the importance of the EOS Committee conducting a wide-ranging study on issues of major public interest. If the sample carries out such studies, the Committee considers that any additional costs should be borne by the Storting on request. It is also consistent with previous practices. The Committee has examined whether the proposal for allocation is in line with the draft budget of the Committee, and therefore supports it. I would also like to briefly point out that the control job carried out by the EOS Committee involves checking that the secret services remain within the framework set by the legislator. It has therefore surprised me that in the public debate it has been argued that this control leads to a kind of precautionary culture, among other things. in PST. The inspection shall contribute to checking and ensuring compliance with the laws laid down by the Stortinget, and there is no reason to believe that the inspection shall result in any restriction on the activities of the PST. The Court of Auditors is the prime provider of control reporting by the Stortinge and helps to enable the Stortinge to exercise its constitutional obligation to exercise control over the executive. The National Audit Office has the vision to contribute effectively to the control of the Storting and to promote good governance. It is a vision that took place in 2013, among other things. materialises in a new audit support tool and implements new international standards that will enable the Riksaudition to carry out the control job on behalf of Stortingen. All lots, with the exception of the Right, shall join the budgetary position at this point. The right-hand member refers to the financial position, where they propose to cut 15 million. kr in the budget of the National Audit Office. With this unusually short and small budget line, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is presenting a position on our budgetary framework for debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e419	As rapporteur for the chapter on Stortinget, I have just a few comments. The budget has a gross budget of 1.9 billion. SEK, of which approximately 800 million goes. kr for operation and, inter alia, $159 million. kr in support of the party groups of Stortinget. It is important what is described in the budget, namely that the Administration of Storting should support the grubbing-up work through a service and functionality, in order to allow the grubbing-up representatives to concentrate on the policy function effectively. There is a somewhat different assessment of the budget for the Storting. As the rapporteur said, the majority have followed up the government's proposals, while the minority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, have cut to a range of between 30 and 50 million. kr. I just want to stress that in the same way that one is going to be sober in central government in all other areas, not least in the time we are now in, when we see around us that one has to have far more sparingness in the use of government expenditure, it is important that we also in the Stortinge, through the budget of the Stortinge and through the administration of the Stortinge, implement soberness in all one do. At the same time, a sailor in the work of the Storting must have a dignity and a functionality that is in line with the demands of a modern parliament. But it's essential that one from Storting's administration, too, follows this soberness. In the last year's budget, there was agreement on a saving of 30 million. kr. I hope that in the administration there is an understanding that a loyal follow-up to the decisions being made, so that one ensures that the Storting can go ahead and play its role in a good way at a time that will require more negligentness in the future in terms of the use of public money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e430	I agree with the case-speaker's good statement on our budget. Not least as the case-speaker for the Civil Service Ombudsman – the civil service, which I would like it to be called – I congratulate you on the 50th anniversary. One thing that I would also like to say from the Chair is that for the next annual report, we want the Civilobodsman to look at the debates that are now taking place in Sweden and in Denmark, on how they organise civil society, so that it is also part of the strategy we are going to have to make civil society better known. I agree very much with what Anundsen says about «prudential culture», which we have also discussed. in the case of PST in the hearings after the 22nd July report. Therefore, it is very gratifying when it comes to the Traavik report, which came yesterday, that the Council of State addresses those issues, among others. the person raised by the chairperson of the committee shall relate to the organisation of cooperation in the secret services. It's very good that this has now come out. There were also 50 suggestions on how to improve your PST. I believe that there will be a very important debate in the future on how the PST should be improved, and therefore it is good that our Minister of Justice is taking good care of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e439	So the debate is on case No. 1 over. At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e466	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e477	When I sat last night and was going to prepare contributions to this debate, I felt that I had a challenge. I went in and looked at the post that I held during the same debate last year, and I got a feeling that I could almost keep the same post. That's what I'm saying because I don't feel like there's any movement in the justice sector. I have a feeling that everything is standing still, and that all the debates, given the challenges we had before July 22, also exist today, but I'll come back to that a little bit. Of course, I should also like to thank the Committee on Effective Progress in Budgetary Negotiations in the Committee, but I hope that others can do that because, unfortunately, I have not been present during the progress, when I was on leave. But the result is there, and I think I know the committee so much that here you have had the same effective progress as on previous occasions. When I open the door to demand or put my finger on progress in security and preparedness, it is because we also have separate issues, and we have debates that go public – of course – largely based on the Gørv report and the shortcomings that we unfortunately discovered on 22 July and after 22 July. It shows that in the justice field and this chain, we also have a huge aftermath, which also characterises other areas of public administration. You might want to ask a lot of questions about this, because if you go in and you look at what you actually have, and what possibilities you have to take this back, you see that you have a lot of possibilities. If you go back to 2005 — eight years ago — you'll see that you've had an increase of 356 billion. kr, and that outside the oil business. There are large sums that, of course, any government can use to really prioritize and make Norway competitive, making Norway perhaps the world's most modern and efficient preparedness and security. But we don't, and that's what's the big question for everyone outside this house too. In the 2013 government budget, total revenue, including oil, amounts to 1 314 billion. kr, and expenditure of more than 1000 billion. kr. The fact that within these frameworks there are no possibilities to make our courts effective, that within these frameworks there is no possibility of tens of millions to strengthen legal certainty, that within these frameworks there is no way to make an economic progress plan for our courts, that we cannot dare to find funds over several years in a predictable funding for sound and image in the courts, I think there are many who question. Within the courts, there is a cross-political agreement to take different action. Yes, it is that it will lead to pressure in the economy and the rule of action governs etc. Can you say the same in criminal matters too? Is it the rule of action that governs the capacity of Norwegian prisons, is it the rule of action that tells us how weak or strong criminal custody should be, is it the rule of action that tells us to have a queue of 1 100-1 200 criminals, is it the rule of action to give a penalty discount, is it the rule of action that is to govern that a person who has committed serious crime is more likely to make an open settlement, and is it the rule of action that determines the working conditions of employees in Norwegian prisons? That's what you say, when you go through the criminal justice system today and you see that you have a lot of lag and major shortcomings and major challenges that it should have solved. Is it the rule of action and the pressure in the Norwegian economy to regulate the density in relation to how many police officers we need? That must be the case, for we have now experienced, for two to three years, that there has been a downsizing in almost all the police districts. Response times go up, serious cases are settled, 3,000 cases with a known perpetrator are ordered, and women are refused to report rape. It must be the rule of action that governs it, when there is no room to strengthen it, when there is no room to give police students a guarantee that they will work and not go to work or find jobs in other professions because predictability is so poor. That must be the reason why it is the rule of action that determines. At least it must be the rule of action that decides that this government will use seven-eight-nine years to build an emergency centre in the Oslo region. The government, the government and the Storting have, of course, opportunities to cut through if there are regulatory challenges that lie there when it comes to starting an emergency centre more quickly. When it comes to the security of the state, any government can cut through. That is why the Progress Party has put forward a proposal that we might have to look for other alternatives, so that we can establish an emergency centre much faster when the need is so strong. In that case, the rule of action may also indirectly contribute to the creation of unculture, poor governance assessment, poor understanding of preparedness and security, poor communication between institutions and institutions, and so much pressure is exerted to prevent the necessary progress and communication from being made in order to provide good preparedness and security. I've been going through most of the areas superficially, but this is the feeling you're left with when you know that all of these areas are now going to be covered in big shots and propositions. What are you experiencing, what is the opposition – or the position of that part – to the Storting? Everything is suspended, everything is suspended indefinitely. You put down samples, you put down commissions to evaluate the situation. You have to assess the police, you have to assess the preparedness, you have to even have 40 million. kr to assess why there is such a poor cooperation culture in the department. You're going to spend tens of millions researching how I and you and everyone have taken over us on July 22nd. The question is, will there be better preparedness and security? Is it going to be better police helicopter capacity by pushing everything in front of you? Is it going to be like this that we get new rescue helicopters before the old ones have to stand on the ground? Through investigations, initial investment, fuel, handling costs and operating costs of the existing rescue helicopters, we will have used up ten new helicopters, because the existing ones are in such poor condition, because we do not dare to make decisions – we push it ahead. At least next year, contract decisions relating to rescue helicopters shall be taken. It's taken ten to twelve years. So we're going to have the same experience with an emergency center. Why do we just have to have one emergency room? Aren't we going to have emergency centres in the rest of the country, which might also be facing exactly the same challenges? That's what the Progress Party wants. That's why the Progress Party in its 2013 Alternative State Budget actually finds room to strengthen the police by 150 million. kr. Well, we're approaching the limit of breaking the rule of action. But our intention and our overall goal is to continue to strengthen preparedness and security, so we allow ourselves to go 150 million. beyond the government to achieve as quickly as possible the objective that is mutually agreed, that we should have a coverage of two operational police officers per 1000 inhabitants in 2020. We allow that. We allow ourselves to set up a separate investment budget for the police of 150 million. kr. Well, then we approach the limit of what the rule of action of this government says, but once again: for the Progress Party, it is overall that we have preparedness and security, with the equipment that is available as of today, which makes police, defence, preparedness and security a little more modern, a little more efficient. So we want to renew the tools: communication equipment, vehicle, protective equipment – because it exists. We will prevent downsizing and queueing in front of our courts, and therefore we will allocate 106 million. kr more instead of cutting down. That is why we are proposing 11 million. extra to increase the capacity of criminal services, and to strengthen the PST. We received an evaluation report on the PST yesterday. Not much of it is new. We've heard this for three, four, five years. We allow ourselves to strengthen border control, and we also actually allow ourselves – not within this budget – to strengthen Home Affairs. Two short words about Prop. 23 S: there is agreement within the Committee on the amendments made, with a few minor comments. I am promoting the proposals put forward in the budgetary position of Prop. 23 p.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e509	The representative has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e514	Today, there's a record record of students at the Police College. Experience has about 94-95 pst. of the graduates in the police department. From the 2011 coal has 94.2 pst. obtained a position in the police on 15 October – not 64 pst., as the Progress Party wrote in the vote. That's old numbers. The progress party also writes in the setting that the police coverage is now approx. 1.45 per 1,000 inhabitants. This is wrong. Updated figures on the Police Directorate's website are 1.59 per 1 000, when a holding PST outside. Takes one with PST as well, is the number 1.64. The representative Sandberg said in his post that everything was standing still. That's wrong. It's moving forward. Will the representative Sandberg acknowledge that the facts are different from what he said in his post now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e523	It's really hard to find facts. In terms of coverage, we're going to write 1.45. That's the last updated number we had. But I think 1.45 actually doesn't have to be closer to facts than 1.59. I have challenged the Minister of Justice in the past, because, after a cross-political agreement in 2006, operational staff would be counted. I'm afraid that the figure of 1.59 -- if you take the PST with you, it gets a little higher -- includes the number of annual works, that is, the number that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has over how many employees there are in the police department. In my and the Progress Party's objective, we operate with the figures we wanted in 2006: two operative police officers per 1 000 inhabitants. I want this number, but it's very hard to get it out. Because I don't think we're reaching the goal of the progress we're making. Even though we have a 720 admission to the high school of police, the challenges are greater when it comes to recruiting these people out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e532	Norway is a safe country. We can all agree on that and note it. We have a professional police force that delivers security every day. We have an unarmed police force that has very little threshold for contacting people, and the other way around – people have very little threshold for contacting the police. Swedish police, armed daily, triggered 76 shots in 2011, according to the Evening Post. The Norwegian police triggered shots once. The Joint Police Association has now decided to work to arm the police also in Norway. The party has gone out and supported it immediately, without any research, investigation or thorough data on it. My question to the Progress Party is: On what does the Progress Party build its support for arming the police and changing Norway forever?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e541	I'm waiting for a response from the Council of State. I sent a question to the Council of State a week ago where I challenged the Council of State to give me some opportunity to see how quickly we can get it in place, what can we get in place, if you can do it differently, if this can be strengthened in relation to better forward-looking storage, etc. The progress party has not fallen to any final position. We have also said, as the representative Chaudhry says, that the police are delivering very well in Norway. The police work very well in Norway within the limits they have. But there are major shortcomings. Among other things, the police in some parts of this country feel very unsafe. We also saw that in a report yesterday, where the police said that the situation in the public room is becoming tougher and tougher every day. Then I think we, as magnification representatives, should listen to what the police say. But I have said that: Before the Progress Party falls on something final, I will see whether it is possible to differentiate it, because the Police Union is not entirely in agreement either. There it is. 50-50 for armaments, the Advance Party is in favour. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e548	The President reminds us that the speaking time for posts in the line change is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e551	I would like to ask the representative Sandberg: What is the problem of open reconciliation and reconciliation with electronic control if it can help to ensure that criminal convictions that go back into society after another settlement live law-abiding lives? Does the Progress Party think that the solution is to keep prisoners in the maximum closed setting, and then to drop them straight out on the street again with just one plastic bag in hand? Sandberg mentions in his post that everything has been postponed indefinitely. I'm going to refuse for just 'everything', but it's obvious that there's an important point to make. The resulting reform has been published, something that has been postponed. I would like to include: clarify that the Ministry has been bombing healthy and that the Gjørv Commission has come to conclusions that should be relevant to what we are doing in the future in the Committee on Justice, is one of the reasons why something has been postponed. I want to ask Sandberg if it's just money he thinks it's on, and if it's just pinching his fingers to make the police better able to deal with terror. The Dot Commission pointed out that it was not the resources and structures that needed to be changed, but that it was about the resources that could not be found each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e560	I've been very clear on this. In the short term, it is about adding more resources. But in the long term, it's all about other things as well: system changes and structural changes that make the police much more effective, the courts much more so and the criminal justice system much more effective. I'm the number one person to make system and structure changes, but right now this government has led us up in a situation where there is a strict need for fresh funds to get us going, just to the point. And when I say that it's postponed indefinitely, it's because the council can't answer when she's going to deliver messages and staging propositions to the Stortinget. The size doesn't know. Now it's said May – maybe – about some messages that we should have had at a long earlier time. In the case of open ground, there's no problem. The problem comes when those who have committed serious crime are released after an open asylum. Open settlement is the Progress Party for as long as traffic offences — to a lesser extent crime. So it's that the Progress Party wants more reconciliation. We want three-quarters atoning, while the Center Party wants two-thirds atoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e570	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e573	Since I was the working chairman of the Judicial Committee during the budgetary work, I can take on what the committee leader said, thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in the budgetary position. As usual, we have good processes together; we go straight on the case and get a setting that shows both consensus and difference. Last morning we were reminded that not everything is black – that justice is actually very good in Norway. We saw in the news that what is called the World Justice Project — an international organization — appointed Norway as one of the leading legal states in the world. It referred to the quality of the courts, the quality of our criminal proceedings, the principle of power sharing that works well, transparency in administration, etc. We see from the results that our courts are far below the objectives of the trial period and the case law well below. We see that the prosecution authority, which has a maximum trial period of 30 days in different areas, is on average between 18 and 19 days before they have decided to prosecute or take a decision on complaints. We see that the police have reduced their processing time in the first six months of this year in case of completed investigations, from 127 days to 110 days on average, and that the cases of young offenders are 30 days before they are completed, while the deadline is 42 days. We also see that the cows in criminal custody, which is an important part of the criminal chain, have fallen, so that they are now halved since 2011 when they were over 1 400. Now it's down to 700 waiting for a settlement. There is a big difference from when the red-green government took over in 2006. Then the figure was between 3,000 and 4000. We also see that an important factor in crime – the number of young offenders under the age of 18 who can have a criminal career – is clearly falling. It's reduced by about 20 pst. in recent years. So there's a lot that happens, and a lot that's positive. I do not agree that everything stands still in the justice sector. The setting also bears the impression that there is a broad consensus about the big grips. There is a broad consensus that we will train 720 police students from the Police College every year in the years ahead to reach the figure of two per 1,000 inhabitants by 2020. And there is a broad consensus that we need to get funds for it. We see that if we do it for eight years to come, at least if we calculate 350 more net per year, we will have 2,800 more policemen in net growth in 2020. We also see that there is an agreement to follow-up on preparedness and follow-up of the Gjørv Commission – with some shades there. At all, opposition parties are going in the same direction as the government, but you want to suggest larger appropriations, more money – perhaps with the exception of the Left – as it is the opposition's job to do, and you need more speed in implementation. But in this budget, government parties have also concentrated on other aspects of the justice sector than just more money, which we believe is crucial. You don't solve it the easiest way and deepen the weaknesses by just spending more money on something that doesn't work well enough. We have been kept informed that we have problems, in particular in triggering interaction between the resources we have in a small country, in order to create security and good preparedness. Last night, the report on the PST showed a lack of interaction with the E service, lack of interaction between the departments in the PST, interaction with the police districts, etc. The Gjørv Commission put the issue of interaction at the forefront, entitled ‘The resources that did not find each other’, as they described the preparedness and situation on 22 July. The Judicial Committee, in connection with our being the main actor in the 22nd of July Committee at Stortinget, has examined the lack of interaction with the Defence, with the Civil Defense and with the Police Reserve. Also during visits to the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, we have seen that there is a lack of a good, close interaction that could improve the use of resources between the agencies in our sector. We have also seen this in terms of police, tax and labour supervision interaction with regard to the work on restaurant crime, competition crime, tax matters, etc. A key aspect of the budget is to facilitate more interaction, to get a plan in different fields, which means that things work better across – that we get more out of resources. It is presented that there will be a common plan for helicopter preparedness between the police, the defence, the rescue services, etc. It is presented that a common unit of analysis, the PST, the E service and the national safety authority will be developed. We saw yesterday that there is a need to develop the PST further with reception units in order to provide information in a good way within the PST. We present in the budget position that we want a clearer legal base for how the police should ask for assistance and get assistance from the Defense in different situations. We report that the investigation requested by the Stortinget regarding cooperation between civil defence, home security, police reserve – the investigation requested by the Stortinget in March – will be launched in the spring of 2013 to improve coordination, look at convergence, coordination, and to improve the efficiency of these response resources. So there's a lot going on to tackle the interaction between different parts of the justice sector. Those who say that the situation is the same as before July 22nd, when it comes to preparedness, I mean give an unfair impression and paint with too broad a brush the fact that there's a lot to do in the future. But we must not underestimate that there is much that has also been done, and is about to happen. Once the Committee has visited the police districts, we have seen that there is a real need to reach out. They have built up much better warning procedures for their crews, so that they can quickly summon the crews in a state of emergency. They have put in place a system in which the national alarm system is protected in a completely different way in each police district when a national alarm is issued. They have increased their capacity on the emergency number 112 to the police. They train on ‘shooting ongoing’ in a different way and with a different focus than before. That instruction is in the process of being revised and improved. Training capacity for emergency teams, which is the leading response staff in the police districts, is increased at the Police College. We get more operational staff of the most educated type. Much has been done to establish better helicopter standby already with helicopter standby on Back, which should be able to carry, among other things. the emergency response team, and to provide new funds to enable Oslo police districts to now have two police helicopters to operate 24 hours a day. There has been an innovation in changing the instructions for rescue helicopters so that they can assist the police when there is an urgent need for police to get around the country quickly with the help of the helicopter. We've seen the reinforcement of the security force. We have seen the strengthening of the PST in this budget, with 30 new millions to next year. We have seen that a situation centre has been set up in the Ministry of Justice, that the situation centre of the PST needs to be improved, as announced in the report yesterday. Strengthening the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness is under way next year, with increased appropriations to increase the emphasis on exercises and to improve the control of chemicals such as ammonium nitrate, from which bombs can be made. The Safety Act is in the process of being implemented in the field of building and civil engineering security. The next step in preparedness is that important new steps need to be taken in the Gjørv Commission report, which the government has announced will come in the first quarter of 2013. Here, emergency response measures such as the National Operation Centre for the Oslo Police District and the Police Directorate are being implemented, with a clearer use of a large button that can be pressed and where a system of resources can be developed to interact with the country around as a matter of urgency. It is essential to put such an operating centre in place, which is also strongly recommended by the Gjørv Commission. In the same big message, there is reason to see how we can make good progress in the establishment of the Emergency Response Centre. The government announces that it will come up with a plan for it in this big message. So it's not like it's in the blue. It is such that a concrete plan for Stortinget will be presented in connection with the Gjørv Commission’s Gjørv notification. It is also uplifting that the Storting is open to discussions about how we can strengthen the capacity of police districts by looking at whether we should have fewer police districts to make them more operational in critical situations. For our part, we have suggested that we should go down to a number of police districts near the number of counties, while the Progress Party has gone much further as we know – to between five and ten police districts. There's going to be an interesting discussion about this until next year. In addition to doing so, there is a need for legislative changes that can make it possible for police and preparedness to function better. We have sent legal changes to the hearing on solo terrorism, terror planned by individuals, who stay away from networks. These legislative proposals, of those who want to criticise, have been made in a caricature, as if it were enough to wear rubber gloves, while it is all about having done enough concrete preparations to pass a threshold. It is a matter of demonstrating that a deliberate, a purpose is at the root of these preparations. It is about the fact that before these measures can be applied to solo terrorists, they must be tried before the Court. So there's a lot more than rubber gloves to be detected. I have to say that some of the criticisms of these legislative proposals have been rather trivial. We also have important legislative proposals for PSTs and those who work with organised crime's ability to obtain information, provide security for their informants, for their sources. This is reflected in new rules on information processing, which the Judicial Committee has asked for in the context of the paper on organised crime, and which are announced in the new year, where new rules will be put in place, so that the informants are less likely to be known by the counterparty and thus be exposed to serious threats. We have the same need for legislative changes in organised crime, which is a major threat to our society. The seriousness of this type of crime is to be underlined by defining the kind of modern networks in which organised criminals are also involved, to be covered by the mafia paragraph or the section on organised crime, which provides double penalties. There is a major question in the position on the budget for next year, about the emphasis to be placed on the importance of increased resources in all fields versus correcting system errors, addressing attitudes, management and culture pointed out by the Gjørv Commission, and also pointing out yesterday's report on the PST, that the PST has not been behind other Nordic countries, rather on the contrary, in terms of resources. It points out that perhaps Denmark is a little over, but that the PST has had a really solid resource increase in recent years, and that that is not the crucial point in how PST now achieves its goal of securing us against terror and other threats. In the right comments in the setting, the Right says that there is a weakness in the Gjørv Commission report that it believes that the resource situation was not a critical factor on 22 July. It's probably the closest we've come to criticism of the Gjørv Commission's report here at Stortinget since it was presented. I just want to say for the government parties, that we also see that there will gradually be a need to increase resources in some fields. We are also increasing resources in areas we are sure of should be increased in this budget, but we also believe that first we need to take seriously that the easiest thing can be to waste money, and that we can do it in the wrong way if we do not now go into the changes we need to make to make the justice sector work optimally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e620	The representative Jan Bøhler is a man who often believes a lot about justice policy, and that's good. The regrettable thing is that the influence that the representative of Bohemia should have on the government's policy is obviously small. Jan Bøhler has been out demanding Islamic police, permanent police, combating drugs in prisons. He wants new terror law, and he wants permission against football mobs. He has demanded a beggar ban. He has demanded immediate closure of Akersgata. He demands the emergency centre established faster than the government, and he demands more visible police. He has agreed with the Christian People's Party to demand porn filters. He criticises the ICT situation in the police, and he demands action against recrimination. When are these issues to be debated in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e627	It was a big surprise, and the questioner makes it impossible for me to answer at each point. But if I had the opportunity, I would like to answer everything. In the case of emergency services, the government has gone ahead and decided where to lay it, while the opposition parties are still discussing alternatives in Akershus and around the country and keeping it open one and the other, while the government has taken the first step, allocated money, said where to lay it, and will come up with a concrete plan in the big story on the Gjørv Commission's report. When it comes to – I have to take examples here – the effort to prevent violent environments, the Oslo Police have responded very well to what I asked for, a coordinated prevention in these environments, and have put in place a plan for how to follow them around the clock, and, to the most extent, dedicated resources to this effort. In the case of recriminals, there has been a replication project over many years, which has really achieved good results in dealing with, among others. The B-fold.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e638	I think it was a very good line from the representative Kielland Asmyhr, because it is quite difficult many times to understand what the representative's policy is, and what is the Labour Party's policy. But that's not what I'm asking. My question is quite brief. How much was drawn from police operational budgets in 2012 to central ICT deployment, and how much will be drawn into 2013 from police operational budgets to central ICT deployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e645	The figure in 2012 would be around 250 million. kr. It's going to add up to 360 million. kr this year on ICT in the police. That was 80 million. kr which was earmarked in addition to that used in the police districts. There are also some means used by the Police Directorate and the unit called the PDMT, the police data and material service. This means that there is a strong stepping up of efforts to expand the ICT infrastructure in the police, and it will be completed during 2012–2013, as announced in the budget. It's obvious that there's things that we would like to do before, but in this final phase, there's pretty hard work that needs to be done to get that infrastructure in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e650	This debate is the final outcome of the important budgetary procedure that the Judicial Committee has been through, in which we have received input from a wide range of organisations and actors in the field of justice. We had a hearing on the budget in the committee, where during this period there were actually record numbers that had signed up. Many of these made clear the shortcomings in the government's submitted budget, for example. as regards the courts, where the judges of the country have written letters to the Committee. Other aspects have also been pointed out. Nevertheless, the government parties do not take any of these recordings into account. Is Jan Bøhler of the opinion that we should now abolish the Committee's budgetary hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e659	No, absolutely not. It gives a lot of important knowledge, and some of what is included in the hearings, which was taken up this year, is also reflected in our budgetary position. For example, with regard to the comment of the prosecution authorities on their budget, we say that we will follow it up and come back to it in the revised budget, while pointing out that the prosecution authorities – when we look at the results – are very much in line with the procedural requirements, etc. The same applies to the courts. They received additional funds in 2010–2011 to avoid a queue, and those inputs have been reduced slightly in the last two years – they retain 20 million. kr of them until next year. Now they just got seven million. kr extra this year, as a result of funds transferred in a balancing now before Christmas, where they will be able to invest more in ICT this year. We hear, but we can't do everything at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e668	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e671	When we discussed the Justice Budget last year, it had been less than five months since July 22. Most of them were still in the wild and marked by uncertainty. Last year, therefore, I started right-hand posts by thanking the staff of the Ministry of Justice for having done a very difficult job, both in terms of work and emotionally. There is a reward I want to start with today. Employees have worked in a climate characterised by a critical focus that has been no less than last year, rather opposite. The Gjørv report had to come up with its findings and showed many years of political neglect, which had to become visible sooner or later. At the same time, our sector needs to solve a wide range of tasks that are weak or have no connection to the Commission's discussion, for example. ensuring a balance in the criminal justice chain, ensuring a balance between preparedness and day-to-day work, or readiness for everyday life, as you might also call it, ensuring that any proposal that might prevent terrorism but does not assess the relationship with privacy properly and ensure that we do not forget all the important prevention work – not least by volunteers – that contributes to less crime and better readmission. All of this must be remembered, so that we do not unintentionally move towards less democracy. All this must happen within the framework of what all parties have as a common political project: to preserve the best of the best in the Norwegian model, the rule of law and our democracy. We agree very much on Norwegian policy, not least in justice policy, and we all boasted of the District Court's handling of the terrorist case. It is important to remember what it was that we were really bragging about, when we are going to face future threats too, namely the way we deal with things in Norway, as the well-developed democracy we are. If Norway hasn't been before, at least we are now a small island of prosperity and harmony, in a world that is not characterized by exactly the same thing. It presents us with some challenges. One, and most demanding, is that everyone understands what it takes for Norway to continue to have it that way in the future. Self-satisfaction in the oil nation of Norway and disregard for the challenges of all countries is problematic. Loss of competitiveness and an increasingly two-part economy are things that in the longer term can create problems in keeping what we have now. The second, most obvious, challenge to justice policy is that, as a small, rich country with an open economy, we have had a little naive approach, from both people and authorities, to what it means to us in terms of crime challenges. When discussing low police coverage in Norway, there is reason to remember that the countries around us, because of their economic situation, will contribute to creating further criminal pressure. One thing is asylum policy, but there is reason to look at what happens when countries that are very close to us, cut their welfare goods and perhaps also in their police budgets. Then we get more angry and frustrated people, who we see increasingly being oriented towards strong men or authoritarian ways of thinking, while we have fewer policemen to cooperate with when these people move on. I hope that the left-hand side of Norway, in its eagerness – sometimes – to label bourgeois parties as something they are not, remembers the common responsibility we have to combat parts of xenophobia and the hatred we see very close. You call yourself a wolf, wolf too much about, for example. The party of progress or the right, you risk that parts of the arsenal are used up when we have to stand with you in the fight for something more important. Several people are therefore expected to come to Norway to get some of our wealth — legally or illegally, peacefully or violently. Maybe they're not moving at all, but they're deliberately using the PC and hacking, for example. countries such as Norway, which lack the strategy and thinking to combat ‘cyber crime’, or which have not made any judgements on how to build up the 4G network and who are invited. The government's invitation strategy on this is about like a 14-year-old who holds the home-alone party for the first time and puts out an open invitation on Facebook. The right will therefore come back to our proposals for the better fight against ‘cyber crime’, organised crime and MC crime in later interventions. International and regional cooperation is becoming even more important, and the target of higher police coverage is becoming more precarious than ever. I want to praise the sitting council to not cover up that we have too few policemen. That exercise dominated her predecessor to the fingertips, but we got a clear feedback in the Görv report. The question is now whether we can learn from it in the future and see what results we get for the money we spend. The police have received more money, the PST has received more money, and the emergency networks have also been spent on money. But what are the results of the money? The external report we received on the PST also showed a PST that is partly unable to deliver, and not least a department that lacks competence to control and signal. The pile of unpaid bills for a new government after the election next year is big. At least we have to approach a police force that everyone has assumed should at least be on two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. They have to work when something happens, not when nothing happens. Not least, they have to work on what we need policemen to do, and we're going to have to deal with that later in today's interpellation. It was a surprise that the budget does not involve the expected promise of security and preparedness, and there are few new, concrete measures that are in line with the recommendations of Görvjörv. The budget does not add up to an extension of the staff increase. It is good that money is put into practice at strategic level, but there are no signs of any possibility of further training at operational level among policemen. Therefore, the right-hand side proposes increased funding for both ICT, training and the recruitment of police. There is reason to note that the police, in part as a protest, agreed to join general armed forces as a sign that POD and the Ministry of Justice have not intervened, for example. training needs. The right will address the issue of arms at its national meeting next year. It's a sad paradox that it wasn't necessarily just the crime scene, but the government's lack of initiative that led the police to make that decision, because there's no better police preparedness because in some police districts there's a police coverage of one per thousand, and they don't have time to train. More money is needed for a police force that should be given fewer tasks so that they can concentrate on what they should – create more security. While the Storberget in open consultation was very clear and said that police tasks should be reduced, it seems that with the current minister, there has been no thought in that direction. It's giving the opposite signal. It's unfortunate. We should have given the police today a signal that they will not only get fewer goals, but fewer tasks, so that they can concentrate on what they should be good at in 2013. The right is pleased that the government is making a mini-version – I get to call it that – of the police study we have proposed and were voted upon in the past. We hope that it will be a good basic document, but we are afraid that it may be urgent work. It's very heavy, and we hope you can get external and foreign expertise. Otherwise, I note that the question I asked the representative, Mr. Bøhler, about how much is to be drawn from the police's operating budget to ICT in 2013 remained unanswered. This means – unless the Council of State makes it clear – that this year the Stortinge will not know how much money the police really want to employ people for the next year. The pile of unpaid bills for a new government is, as I said, huge. We've all been together about a criminal code that's better to rehabilitate and rehabilitate. However, the employees do not feel that it is possible to implement St.meld. No Thirty-seven. Unfortunately, there is no separate capacity plan for the Storting and prisons are overcrowded. The right is open to assess EK – electronic control – also as the protection surrogate, but it needs to be done in a reassuring way and not only will it be able to solve the capacity challenges. The most important thing is that criminal services are given the opportunity to plan more long-term than is provided for. The courts and the higher prosecution authority are as a rule cautious in their demands, but it is quite clear that no system has been found to create a lasting balance in the criminal justice chain when we see that the administration of the Court of Justice and the Riksadvokat express their concern to the Stortinget about their working situation, respectively. In conclusion, the representative of Boehler was at the heart of what is written in his comments about money. It is obvious that there is also a resource challenge when there are not enough policemen in the job to ensure, for example, that they are safe. public buildings following a terrorist attack. Several thousand do not have operational capability. Then there is also a question of training and resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e710	The President invites the representative, Oktay Dahl, to consider whether the proposal on which the Right stands alone and which has not yet been raised should be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e713	It has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e718	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e723	The representative Octay Dahl was naturally within the follow-up of the Gjørv Commission's report. In the setting, the Right says that there is a weakness with the Gjørv Commission that it concludes that ‘the resource situation was not a critical factor in dealing with the events on 22 July’. And so on, the Right says that: ‘The Commission’s report is an important contribution in setting the framework for future preparedness. But it is no more than that." What does that really mean? My question is: why does this lack of trust in the Gjørv Commission at such an important point, and what indicates that the Right – at least in its own eyes – has more competence to assess this than the Commission? Or is it simply that the Commission's conclusions are wrong with Right rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e733	The right has always said that we have great confidence in the Commission and its conclusions. But the Commission does not affect everything. That's why we've also had hearings here in Stortinget that have actually revealed quite a lot of what I tried to record in my 10-minute post now. It's also a final response to the attack from Jan Bøhler. The Commission has pointed to a wide range of factors, namely that there are different cultures and lack of cooperation across the main problem. But when there are too few people with operational capacity to secure buildings, when you haven't developed your own ICT strategy, when you've spent more than a billion on ICT, but you haven't got anything special left and you can't hire people, it's actually a both-and-and-a-half. In the future, we're going to have to look at how we're going to hire people. The conclusion of the Gjørv Commission is then important. At the same time, I think it was good to have hearings in the Control Committee which showed that both the Gjørv Commission and the Control Committee came to the same conclusion as the Right has pointed out for several years in relation to the problems of Norwegian justice policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e738	It is a well-known profile in the Right Policy that those who have the least have to pay the bill for those who have the most to get even more. And we'll see that again in Oslo. Free legal aid has existed in Oslo since 1893. There, those sitting at the bottom of the table get help from the community. This has now been proposed by the Oslo City Council to reduce the tax bill. My question to the representative of Octay Dahl is: is this policy we can expect if the right against assumption is to win the election next year, namely that those who have the most will get even more, and those who have the least will have to pay the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e745	I have to remind you that the representative Chaudhry is a member of the Stortinget, not of Oslo City Council, although it sometimes works like that. Oslo Municipality has done this – yes. But what happens in this room, and that the representative Chaudhry – with the majority here – could do something about, is make sure that the state takes on the responsibility of the state in providing free legal aid. It's not essentially a municipal problem. So in the budget, you put down the first line project, which gives everyone an opportunity to get one hour of free legal assistance. It was one of the great victories of the previous Council of State to get into government. But what you choose to do is put down the project that was very important to a lot of people. Then I think you might rather spend the energy on your own government, which has more money for distribution than ever, than to focus on what is happening in the Municipality of Oslo. You don't have to look away at the town hall to see what can happen there. One has a government that actually shows with its own actions what it does, and does not, for the weakest of the weakest in terms of a state responsibility for free legal aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e750	The government established Kongswinger prison as a prison for foreign prisoners to be expelled. The target is customization, easier access to interpretation services, etc. The Progress Party has a proposal to have a poorer standard for foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons. It is contrary to international conventions, it is against discrimination based on ethnicity, etc. Slowly and gradually, you go against a choice. I would like to ask the representative Octay Dahl about the Right to support the proposal of the Progress Party that there should be a worse standard for foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons. If they can't: Is there a fundamental difference in human vision, and is it a good starting point for a government cooperation ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e755	First I have to say I'm glad the government is doing what it does with Kongswinger prison. That at all was hostile to human beings when the Right Party and the Advance Party a few years ago proposed to have their own departments and their own prisons for criminal foreigners. So I think maybe you should look at yourself a little bit before you start talking about human vision and that kind of thing. In the case of the Progress Party and the Right, we're not together on remarks. But I actually think it's pretty obvious that we can't have exactly the same charity. It will depend on whether or not to return to Norwegian society. But I want to continue playing the ball to the government, who is responsible, because it is not clear what level they are going to have and what kind of offer to give at Kongswinger prison. There the employees are very worried. So the question is, should there be a higher standard here, or should there be a lower standard? In fact, the government itself, which has been responsible for seven years, has not been able to answer – when it first starts this action, which there should be more examples of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e764	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e767	SV is proud that we have been leading the country for seven years. In cooperation with our government partners, we have turned Norwegian policy to the left. More than 330,000 jobs have been created in the country and the economy is managed solidly and safely. It makes the interest rate low. Unemployment is low, and people here are looking forward to the future. This security is essential for a harmonious society. High unemployment and economic insecurity are causing unrest. It hampers the nation's capacity for innovation and value creation. It also creates a breeding ground for crime and insecurity. SV and the government will continue to control the country on the basis of the value we have so far managed. We see no need to expose the economy, the country and society to experiments. We must note that Norway is a safe country to live in. However, we continue our work to make the country even safer. We're going to build a new emergency centre, buy new rescue helicopters, expand the emergency network, repair police management culture and strengthen NorCERT. Despite living in a free country, many people, especially women, are subjected to violence in close relationships and sexualized violence. Over the last few years, we have introduced our own penal code into the law against violence in close relations. The punishment against violence in close relationships is intensified, emergency services are required by law, police have increased competence and attention to both the prevention and investigation of violence. The right to a free interview with a lawyer before the notification in cases that will be covered by the aid lawyer scheme is in place. A DNA registry has been created, and positions have been created in Kripos as targeted jobs against sexual offences. It's about to be researched on partner drap. A secure life is a human right. Being exposed to threats of violence, mental or physical violence, reduces the quality of life. It's on the planet. It's on the planet. That's why the government and SV use a lot of forces and resources here. Nevertheless, we can say that too many women and children and, not least, older people experience violence. Sometimes it has fatal consequences. I believe that the most important preventive action against violence in close relationships is talking about it and creating good attitudes – preferably from childhood. The government and SV are very concerned that everything that can secure women is investigated, financed and started. One of the measures that will make women safer is the so-called reverse violence alarm. Unfortunately, it has taken too long to provide this solution. I want the Minister of Justice to be personally involved in the matter, so that this action can be initiated as soon as possible. This can mean a strengthened quality of life for many women. On Wednesday 21 November, the State Children's House opened in Ålesund. It is a multidisciplinary centre of competence that takes care of children after witnessing violence or violence or sexual assault. ‘The children’s house represents the door in which the children receive the help they need. Children under arrest are in a vulnerable situation – we will offer them the best expertise and provide them with better legal certainty,” said police officer Jon Steven Hasseldal in his opening speech. This is the eighth children's home in the country. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we promised a children's home. However, we see that this is a very good and accurate measure aimed at a vulnerable group. That's why we're happy that the bet goes on. There are good feedback about children's homes. Now it's about getting more people to use them and making sure they have good finances. It is very important that the police constantly pay attention to violence in close relationships. The Government has decided to establish a post in each police district. An official or woman shall work in 100 pst. position with the prevention and combating of violence. I want the Council of State to make sure that there is such a position in all the police districts and that it is 100 pst. position. The government has notified a big deal about violence in close relations. It looks SV with joy and commitment up until now. I also want municipalities to take time to prepare their own action plan against violence in close relations. Since 22 July last year, there has been sharp and justified criticism of preparedness in this country. The July 22 Commission discovered major deficiencies in our preparedness. We have to fix this. We are an open and democratic society based on trust and participation. Whatever the measure, we can never be 100 pst. safe from acts of violence. Therefore, both civil society and emergency services must take risks and threats seriously. The government is proposing 45 million. to the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. The money is excluded from price and salary compensation. In the July 22 report, the police get harsh criticism. The Commission determines that, above all, there is a need for change in management, interaction, culture and attitudes rather than increased resources, new legislation, organisation or large value choices. Therefore, the government has proposed to grant 25.5 million. to the development of police management. Norwegian criminal justice is based on a human tradition. Over the last few years, the government has been cultivating this tradition. St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008 is heaven above government criminal justice. It is a message that was well received by those who work in criminal matters, and it was also almost unanimous. I am therefore surprised that the Right writes the following in its comments: ‘This means that any new government after the 2013 elections will have a very demanding job of cleaning up after the last years of experiments with Norwegian criminal justice.’ I hope that this remark is explained to Stortinget. In 2011, 52 foreign prisoners were transferred to the home country for compensation. According to the Department's calculations, the potential is around 100 – and we're going to work on that. The government has decided to establish its own prison for foreign prisoners without a residence permit at Kongswinger Prison, Vardåsen, with 97 seats. Unlike the Right and Advance Party, government parties have not intended to offer foreign nationals in Norwegian prisons lower standards than Norwegian prisoners. The government’s objective in setting up its own prison for foreign prisoners is to develop an adapted offer, but with the same quality as the offer to other prisoners in Norwegian prisons. This shall be done, inter alia: through enhanced cooperation and transfer of competences in the justice sector, enabling the use of services as interpreters. I would like to stress that the principle of equality of law underlies all prisoners, regardless of citizenship, and that it is therefore not relevant that there is a lower offer in prison for foreign prisoners. I have to say that it tastes bad when the Progress Party writes the following in its comments: For these Members it is essential that: ‘Some institutions adapted to lower standards of foreign criminals should be converted than those of the Nordics returning to Norwegian society.’ This shows a human vision in which SV strongly disagrees. Crime is doing a fantastic job. They deal with people like everyone else has failed. Repair work is difficult, so there is respect for the job done every day in Norwegian prisons and in the care of people. I therefore find it regrettable that the Right Cutter 5 million. to the administration of the same criminal code. It's a little worth thanking for the effort. Let me end by saying what I started with. Norwegian society is a free society. It is governed by a value basis which provides for the least possible distance between people, safe society and safe jobs. Then we see no reason to postpone this society, this country and this economy for experiments from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e824	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e827	I have listened with great interest to my colleague Chaudhry's comments. I almost thought he'd talk more about Oslo in his post – considering what important meeting he's going to at later today – but he didn't. I'm recording that the representative is elected from Oslo. In the capital, we have huge challenges in fighting crime. I, who also live in this city sometimes, follow the news picture. The capital has major challenges, not least on weekends. The police have a hell of a job trying to handle everything that needs to be done. Is it so that the representative Chaudhry is satisfied with the judicial budget that has now been put forward and that he himself will vote for later today? In order to get control of the situation in Oslo, can he guarantee that the everyday life of the smooth Oslo citizen and those who live in the capital will be safer with the justice budget he is now very much in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e836	I am proud of the police budget that the government has presented both for the country and for Oslo. I am an oslo citizen, traveling in this city and know me quite safely both on the Furuset, where I live, on the Tue, where I travel, on Greenland, where I go off the T-Bahn, and around the Stortinget. I refer you to the budget presented by the government. That'll make Oslo even safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e841	In June 2011, the University of Bergen presented a report that called for better legal certainty related to DNA analysis and pointed out the lack of ‘second opinion’ potential in Norway. On 4 March 2010, the representative, Chaudhry, saw the need to take the step of saying that the representatives of the Right acted as paying lobbyists for an alternative DNA analysis centre – an opinion he later had to dement in the VG. Then we see in this budget that the DNA analysis capacity in Tromsø is to be phased out. You're left with one institute – not a second opinion option on DNA analysis. My question is, how does the representative of Chaudhry want to ensure legal certainty and effective investigation, especially for the raped women?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e852	I must note that the Right is most concerned with the past. I'm more concerned about the future. I am also concerned, as the representative knows, with the legal certainty of all, but not least – and especially – women who are subjected to violence. Over the last seven years, this government has strengthened women’s legal certainty, including the following: by setting up a DNA registry, ensuring that there are new jobs in Kripos – and strengthening DNA research in the country. What the right is concerned about is just one thing, and that's how private actors can get into the market. That is not the main objective of this government. We have secure DNA research in the country. When I travel around and talk to the police, I have never heard that there is any problem, nor for the courts there is any problem. Good research material and research material are provided to the courts of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e861	The representative did not answer the question. The question was whether the representative, Mr Chaudhry, felt it was okay with one environment when he said earlier that two environments were important. What does he intend to do to create more than one environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e866	The most important thing is not whether it is one or three or six or ten, the most important thing is that it is competent environments. We have a competent environment. That should start to be trusted by the representative. We have our own environment. It delivers very good results, and I expect the representative to have confidence in that environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e871	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e874	The basic needs we humans have are more than food, drink and dress. A little girl from a warring African country was asked once by a Dagsrevyen journalist about what she would be when she grew up. There's such questions one asks kids, and it usually comes up with answers like fireman, pop star, or air hostess. The answer from this girl, on the other hand, was this: "Safe," she replied. Safe it was she would be when she grew up. I won't forget this answer. It often happens to me when I hear about vulnerable young people growing up in unsafe conditions, whether it's because of acts of war, violence, violence or harassment. The need to be safe we all have. We, who are elected by the people to rule, have a great responsibility for just being able to feel safest in our country. In addition, we have an international responsibility to help improve the situation of people in countries where there is a conflict. The budget for justice consists of many figures, chapters and budget lines. In addition to these numbers – and in addition to them – there is a lack of tasks to be solved. For the funds that we apply to the various service areas, for example. police prevent crime; they shall detect and clarify a wide range of offences. The courts shall settle disputes and judgments, and the criminal courts shall take care of those who are convicted. The goal is not to punish itself, but to ensure that the most law-abiding is done when they come out, and that action is also targeted. Societal preparedness shall be good for coping with crises. Civil defence must be quick on the plate and qualified to deal with different tasks. The industry must be able to move out and do the job when it burns. We can continue to frame what kind of important services we get for the money that's put into the justice part of the state budget for 2013, and we can also frame what more we could get if we had more money. Preparedness has been raised as a specific important area following the July 2011 terrorist attack. This is necessary, because we have been told too much as failure when what happened that no one could see would happen. At the same time, we must not forget that preventing untruths is also about being early on the plate and offering follow-up for young people who are about to end up on the slope. Police shouldn't be just an action police force that's there when it clicks. It shall be present in the communities and be able to cooperate well with other important actors, such as schools and child protection. They shall be able to catch up when the criminal environment is developing and preferably taking early action. I was supposed to be in a debate on the radio earlier this year. I have a gut of 12 years that is sometimes interested in what I am doing as a grossing-up representative. He asked me what to talk about on the radio, and I told him it was about the local police, that we need a police officer around the country. Then he said, "When I hear the word "near police," I think of him Per." That was so well said, because we have just a police officer named Per in Surnadal, who on the mouth of the people goes by the name of Per Police. The good saw him right away. Per Police was the face of the police. I think this is a value, that the police have a face for young people and young people growing up – and for all of us. In order for this to be possible, we need to make sure that we have loonsmen's offices spread throughout the country – that distances are not too large. I'm not saying that everything should be just like it was before. Some places can be natural to make changes to the structure. But it's interesting to see how the police officer in e.g. Nord-Trøndelag is thinking when it comes to the canning offices. He points out that the role of lumbars in themselves has an important function in the community, and that the most populous areas do not think that most of the resources are being drawn into it. The country is far and wide, and then the structure of municipal and state services must also reflect this. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Justice said so clearly in his speech to the League of Police that near-police officers and cannon offices should be strengthened, not weakened. The centre party is pleased that we in the red-green government since 2005 have strengthened the police budget a lot, actually with a total of 32 pst. – Mr. 2.7 billion. kr – when wage and price rise has been subtracted. It has our – and is – a right bet. We've got a record number of police students out there, which has been absolutely necessary to achieve the goal of higher police coverage. It is a cross-political objective to put in place two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants by 2020. Then not only money is needed, but also police officers can fill these positions. The fact that the classes at the Police College are in spite of the fact that we have created a lot of new student places is a sign that police work is seen as interesting, important and rewarding. Then it's also a task for us to make sure that new police officers get jobs as quickly as possible after passing the exam. The combination of the fact that there will be no vacancy due to the natural departure from the station, and that we have added funds targeted against adding new outlets from the Police Hill, has done so over 94 pst. of the 2011 coal had police work on 15 October. Of the newly formed 2012 coal, over 80 pst. by those who have passed the examination position in the establishment at that time. To make sure that those who pass the exam for the spring will get a job as soon as possible, it is good that we have added an increase of 120 million. kr in the budget for the next year to add ready-made students. Since we formed a government in 2005, there have been 1,700 more annual works in the police and prosecution authorities, and there is reason to appreciate this. At the same time, we must not forget that the population is growing and that, therefore, more and more policemen must be appointed to keep up with this development. Not only that, but we're supposed to increase the number of police officers per 1,000 people by 2020. Each increase in the budget is a step towards this goal. Now the number is 1.64 per 1000 – as far as I've got it – so there's still a job to do, and we have to make sure that this increase will benefit the whole country. When talking about the important job being done in the justice sector, one must also take into account the high value of the work of voluntary organisations. WayBack and Music in prison and freedom are two organizations that, in different ways, contribute to improving the quality of life and to improving their performance when they finish their soning. The Fangers Family Association also does a nice job for those who might have easily forgotten, the family around the individual convicted – and for better conditions. We have increased the rights of volunteers over the years, and we must continue to do so. Every penny we give to these is going to give us a lot more. I thought I was ready. Some of the debates that have raged since last year's terrorist attack have been about the potential of the police to receive assistance from the Defense if necessary. The primary task for the Defence is, of course, to defend Norwegian territory. However, terrorist attacks are warlike acts, and they can be a threat to national security. Also in other types of serious events, the Defense can contribute in a positive way. When the defence has resources and capacities that can help to get a serious situation under control and to save lives, it is important that the possibilities for the police to get assistance are good and that it should go quickly. That is why there is now a new aid directive that provides a lower threshold for the police to receive assistance from the Defence Agency. Furthermore, it is important for preparedness that the police have been given greater opportunity to use the rescue helicopters for important missions and that provision has been made for day-to-day police helicopter service. Of course, the new emergency network is also fundamental to the rapid and good communication of the various emergency situations on a closed network. It is bad that the project has been so late that it has taken so long. It has been mainly due to supplier problems, but luckily it is gradually being rolled out, so that it can be completed by 2015 – if everything is going to go right. I should have liked to have said a lot more about other areas of particular importance in the field of justice, such as courts and criminal justice, etc. I want to refer to the comments from the red-green to the state budget, which says a lot about what we think is important in the different areas, but I also want to draw up some examples in addition to what I said earlier. Kingswings prison was mentioned in the line change earlier today. The increasing number of foreign criminals in Norway and foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons creates problems – we are not getting away from that. I have previously stated that we need to strengthen the border control in the future. More options are needed for Gardermoen and Værnes, among many other places. I also mean that we need to reconsider the Schengen cooperation, because as it is now, it facilitates the free movement of criminals across borders. Reconciliation is an important measure, and other things are of course also important in order to better control the situation that has developed. When the Octay Dahl was in place, I would also point out that there should not of course be better conditions in prison as Kongswinger, but that there should be targeted and adapted measures. I want to finish where I started, with the girl who would be safe when she grew up. We live in a much safer country than many others, but there are also many who are vulnerable in our country, who are exposed to serious things, and the kids are the most vulnerable among us. I will, as the representative Chaudhrey, bring forward the new children's home in Ålesund as a good measure in the budget for next year. We're still going to have a safe country and a safe society, and then we're going to have to continue to have a strong justice sector. And we're going to make sure that in the future, and what I'm happy about, after all, is that the opposition and the government party are united on that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e920	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e924	The representative Klinge often used the word ‘safe’ in his post. We know that the government is now adding up to a new emergency center on Alnabru where to add the Delta Dog Patrol and a helicopter base. But the Gjørv report points to the need for interaction, co-treatment, co-location, etc. between the various emergency situations. That is why I strongly support Mr Klinge's view is that the Alnabru proposal takes care of the need for people's security.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e929	There will always be a big discussion about localization, no matter what we talk about. What's unwavering, is that if we get the emergency centre on Alnabru the fastest advice and in a sensible way, it will mean a great deal of progress for the interaction between the different actors. I am busy that it should be well thought out, but also that we should get started, and then – as I see it – it is perhaps better to make the very best of the option that is well-founded than always to ask questions about alternatives and use time to assess new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e934	For a moment I thought that the guy at the representative Klinge was thinking about me, but it was obviously a local Per, so I guess I just have to work a little bit extra. I record that the Center Party and the representative Klinge are very concerned that foreign criminals do not get the standard that others have in Norwegian prisons. It's kind of interesting, because in the Storting, in the Center Party, and in the government, there's been a unanimous agreement to set up extradition agreements. If you are concerned that the standard is going to get worse for foreign criminals, does it also mean that the Senter Party does not want extradition agreements unless the premises are set for the standard in foreign prisons to be the same as in Norway before we deliver foreign criminals? That's the situation, actually. Or the Central Party would like to cut off the funds that Norway is using to build up criminal justice, among other things. in Romania?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e941	I am pleased with that question, because it is an incredibly important point that we should contribute to the improvement of criminal justice and better care for prisoners in other countries as well. Now, when it comes to international human rights laws, such as conventions and cooperation to which we have committed ourselves, it's in spite of everything within Norwegian borders and Norwegian prisons that we have to decide on this. But that doesn't mean we're going to ignore the fact that it's going to be the best possible terms in the rest of the world, and that's why it's quite right, as we do, to spend money on the EEA project, etc. in Romania, as the representative named Sandberg, to improve the conditions there. The Justice Committee has been there to see how it is there, and it's bad, so there's clearly a need for improvement there too. But it is important, as I pointed out instead, that the standard should not, of course, be better for foreign prisoners, but it should not be worse either. The main thing is that there should be a custom setting for those to go out. I also believe that the zone for the Norwegian prisoners in the other prisons will be better, because it can then be more targeted at them as a group.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e946	In 2012, it was raised to 280 million. spending of police districts’ operating budgets to finance central ICT investment. Police services are affected both in cities and not least in districts. My question to the representative is whether she is satisfied that we do not yet know the extension from police operational funds for 2013 to key ICT investments. In the current year it is then drawn over 1⁄4 billion. So we still don't know about next year's excerpts. We also don't know the consequences of that extension when we don't know the amount, but we know that this is beyond the police's ability to solve their community mission. Is the representative satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e951	Of course, it is important to have targeted resources for ICT, but here it is a large budget of several billions starting from which the police have been involved for several years, and what one unfortunately sees is that ICT efforts have been too bad for many years. The targeting of ICT resources is very important, and I am concerned that the police districts within the budget framework they have otherwise – in addition to the funds that become ‘loyal’ to it – make sure to prioritise ICT as an area. It's not just about the computer tool itself, but it's about what kind of services the police can deliver, how effective they can be, and how well they can cooperate across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e956	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e959	Safe neighbourhoods are a prerequisite for safe families and for safe children. It is a fact that many today know of insecurity because of increasing violence and crime. Much could have been avoided with early response to young people at risk. The Christian People's Party will give priority to the work on safe streets and the community and the fight against everyday crime that destroys people's security, and in order to achieve this, we need a closer and more visible police force. Recently, it has been found that the percentage of accommodation is very high in cases of violence in close relationships. We in the Christian People's Party will therefore prioritize the investigation of violence in close relations and abuse of children. In order to free up time for investigation, we have not only given more money so that more people can be employed in the police, but in our alternative budget we have also increased the allocation of ICT equipment to the police considerably compared to the government's proposals. In view of the terrorist attack in Norway in 2011, there has been a high potential for improvement in the interaction between emergency situations. We have therefore chosen to strengthen the allocation of cooperation between the police, the defence and other emergency services to ensure that the assistance comes in time. We have also chosen to strengthen the police by means so that it is actually possible to free up time for practice, as the report of the 22nd July Commission pointed out is necessary. The courts are struggling with considerable delays after many years of depriving them. The number of cases in the courts has increased markedly in recent years, both in civil and criminal matters, without sufficient budgetary follow-up through increased appropriations. As a result, the procedure has increased. This results in victims being subjected to legal proceedings, which in turn means that the opportunities to move forward in life go out, leading to an extra and unnecessary burden for the individual. I would also like to stress my concern about the lack of results in connection with the development of the Emergency Network. Emergency networks are very important for safe and good communication for each emergency and between the stations. The project has been postponed, and the government itself has cut the allocation because the expansion is slower than planned. In order to ensure that progress will be made, the Christian People's Party has proposed to halve the appropriations submitted by the government. The reason for this is that we have asked the government to come back to the Storting with proposals for improvements and a full implementation plan in good time before the revised national budget in order to ensure proper deployment of the emergency network. Finally, but not least, many non-governmental organisations are making significant efforts to assist former prisoners in the process after the settlement has ended. This is also very important work, especially for individuals, but also for society. The Christian People's Party has therefore chosen to strengthen this work. In addition, there are several non-governmental organisations working on victim care, such as the Stine Sofies Foundation. These are organisations that provide care and help for victims and relatives, which we strengthen in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e977	The representative of the Christian People's Party was concerned with cooperatives and training, etc. And that help comes out in time, but it's in favour of a dramatic cut in the appropriations for the Emergency Network. On the one hand, the representative of the Christian People's Party says that it has gone too slowly – and now they want it to go even slower, creating a huge uncertainty. I live in inland waters – Hedmark and Uppland are under construction now. Why should Hedmark and Uppland be hit in this way? Why will the Christian People's Party target the further development of the country, which is to ensure that all of Norway is equipped with such modern equipment, which our emergency and emergency budgets are in great need, and on which the Committee has also received many positive feedback when we are travelling?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e982	It's a nice day to present such a challenge to the Christian People's Party when it's the first day for a meeting product – I thank you for it! But what I understand is that all parties actually cut in this appropriation, including the government parties. There is a large cut in the draft state budget, as I have been presented with it. What is important to us is that the funds allocated correspond to the development you can manage to achieve, and there, as I said in the post, we have sent a challenge to the government to come back to Stortinget with one thing, so that we can get a full review of the further development of the emergency network. It is absolutely a bet also for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e988	I see that my colleague is within Stortinget as an alternate, and I am not going to go into the figures budget in very detail, but relate to general policy. I understand that the Christian People’s Party has a warm heart for the weak man and for fellow humans who are struggling. We have had a debate about the Roma people lately in Norway that you can say very safely many times has been at a level where the Christian People's Party disagrees. Now the Christian People's Party wants to go into government cooperation – if, contrary to assumption, it would become a majority – with the Right, who has had a hard rhetoric against the space people, and who want to forbid the possibility of begging, even if you do not have the opportunity to support yourself. How does my colleague deal with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e993	I think the representative Chaudhry had a very good characteristic of the Christian People's Party, so I can just sign it. We have a warm heart – human dignity is at the heart of all our policies, no matter what theme we talk about. So maybe the representative of Chaudhry knows more than many others that any government negotiations are about to take place, and then we come in with our heart matters. Clearly, human dignity is high in the Christian People's Party. It's also going to make sure that we're allowed to be part of a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e998	The representative took up a very important part in his post that we in the Center Party also support. Now the distance is not too great between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in some things, and perhaps especially not where there's talk of the warm heart and the concern for individuals. I want to talk a little bit about what we've been up to in the past too, namely this with prisons and prison departments related to foreign prisoners going out again, who don't have a place to stay here. What we've heard from the Progress Party now, and I also understand that there's a possible point in the Right Program, is that there should be lower standards in prison wards or prisons with foreign deployments. I would like to hear what the Christian People's Party's position is in that area, all the time it is possible – God had to forbid, but it is possible – with a government cooperation now after the election of a new government. I could think of righting the way the representative from the Christian People's Party looks at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1003	It is true that we agree with the Center Party in a relatively high level of real policy in the various issues, but I may not agree with the conclusion at the end of the line. Well, it's going to be the next harvest. When it is said: Yes, the Christian People's Party has a great heart, and as I replied to the previous line, the human dignity is the basic. That's what we're building on in all of our things. For us, it's an unmistakable thought that the one that's now being launched, that we're going to degrees the prisoners like that. For us, there's a little bit of a wrong focus. For us, a much more important focus is to discuss and encourage the Council of State to have more agreements on compensation transfers in place, and that we simply make more use of that opportunity. But to grade the prisoners in Norway, we see from our side not as any imaginable policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1012	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1015	The core of the government's political project is to support a society of small differences, where people experience security, participation and belonging in small and large communities. This requires a well-functioning justice policy. Security includes: using the possibility of criminal execution, to bring them to a new course, so that they do not commit new crimes when they come out again. This is why the government will strengthen the operation of criminal services next year. We want to train more prison officers, have more money with electronic control and set up a separate prison for foreign prisoners. In the foreign field, we will strengthen the work of returning people without having to stay legally in Norway. In addition, we propose measures to reduce the length of proceedings. Persons applying for a stay in Norway are best served for their case to be decided as soon as possible. We will continue to work to build up a new, efficient and secure management system. The defence reform will strengthen the legal certainty of persons who are unable to attend to their own interests. The government must strengthen preparedness, but it cannot be at the expense of the police's other tasks such as crime prevention, law enforcement and investigation. We need a good professional basis for how the police will be organised in the future. That is why we have set up a working group to carry out a police analysis by June next year. It shall form the basis for a long-term police development plan to be presented in autumn 2013. Any plan for the future must be based on a strong presence of close-up police forces, which will put an end to a wide range of prevention efforts. To do that, we need policemen. This is why the government has for a long time trained record policemen and made sure that there is money in the budgets to hire them. Of the students who graduated in 2011, 94 are postgraduates. at work as of October 2012. Of those who were graduated in the spring of 2012, already 80.7 pst. at work. Next year, we're proposing to increase the budget for the police by 150 million. kr for increased crew. It involves about 70 new annual works in Oslo Police District and up to 280 new annual works in the country. It shall contribute to several operational police officers in all districts. This year, the government has presented a new action plan against violence in close relations and the first action plan against rape ever. Violence against women is a serious crime. The fight against violence will continue to have a high political priority next year. We are now in the final phase of working on a big deal about violence in close relationships. We want to invite the Storting to join in giving leadership to this important policy. A large part of next year's proposed increase in the budget follows the recommendations of the 22nd of July Commission. The Commission concluded that, after 22 July, the lessons learned are more about ‘management, interaction, culture and attitudes — than lack of resources, need for new legislation, organisation or high value choice’. For this reason, the Government proposes appropriations to contribute to good governance, both in the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate. The Ministry shall assume greater managerial responsibilities and be a propellant in the field of emergency response. At the same time, we also need to change our way of looking. This also requires new competence in the ministry. For this reason, we will establish new posts related to tasks in the fields of social security and preparedness, ICT security and the management of the police and civil servants' seat. The management of the police must also be given room to lead. That is why we have put the political governance of the police at a more general, strategic level. We need clear targets and clear demands for results. The Police Director has used this space for action by setting up an amending programme in the Police Directorate which addresses the recommendations of the Commission. We're going to strengthen this program by 25.5 million. kr next year. I note that the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party are critical of these efforts. On the right, ‘minimum use is required for administration’. The forwarding party will ‘invest in better preparedness measures’. My answer to this is that I base the July 22 report of the Commission on the further work to strengthen preparedness in Norway. This means that I accept the Commission's presentation and the premises for its recommendations. The Commission’s main recommendation is that managers at all levels of administration must systematically work to strengthen their own and their basic positions and culture related to risk recognition, enforcement, interaction, ICT exploitation and performance-oriented leadership. It surprises me that the Right and Advance Party do not take this recommendation into account. Had they done so, they would have recognised that yes, we are going to renew the ICT systems of the police, but first the police have to put in place a plan to make the best use of the ICT tool. They had seen that it does not keep ‘investing in measures outside’, without simultaneously starting work to get more robust units in place in the Norwegian police force. [[...]] It is vital for our security that we have a security service that is well-equipped to solve our societal mission. Therefore, the government proposes to increase the appropriation for PST by 30 million. kr to strengthen the organisation in terms of both manning, operations and investments. Yesterday, the external sample that has reviewed the PST presented its report. It will be sent to rapid consultation, and in the Ministry we will go through the proposals thoroughly, in particular in view of the sample's assessments of how PST can make even better use of its resources, make the good priorities and also plan for the right profile of competence for the future. The draft budget takes account of the cost of concluding a contract for the delivery of 16 new rescue helicopters. For the purposes of the competitive tendering procedure, the specific amount shall not be declared. But this is a billion investment in rescue and preparedness in Norway, which in no way has to be underestimated. At the same time, we are proposing to strengthen the rescue services by 300 million. kr to ensure the continued operation of today’s continental-based life-helicopter fleet with Sea King helicopters. There is no doubt that the Sea King helicopters are ripe for replacement. But with this reinforcement, we're keeping them in the air until new rescue helicopters are in place. I think it's worth noting the mechanic who now goes out into retirement, who was very proud of the technical quality of today's Sea King helicopters. As I said at the outset, a good justice policy is a prerequisite for a well-functioning society. With the draft budget for next year, we will take another step forward. We provide more security, more accessible services in the justice sector and, therefore, greater legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1059	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1062	I can probably stretch to agree with the Council of State that in some areas it is a step forward. The question is how big these steps are. It's individual, and I think the steps are too small. I would like to challenge the Council of State – and I have actually done so in the past – on the coverage level, in terms of the number of operational police officers per 1000 inhabitants, which is the objective. The numbers create great confusion: 1.45, 1.54, 1.59, 1.64. Could the Council of State, if not for the time being, come to the Grand Government and tell them what are the actual conditions, and what are in the coverage figures that the government operates with from week to week. Is it true that we only talk about operative police, civil and laundry services, etc. are taken out of these numbers?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1069	The Police Directorate has just published on its websites a full overview of the coverage of police officers. I have asked for this to be done – and that it also be regularly updated – and where the latest population figures from the Statistical Centre are used. These are useful facts both for the representatives of the magnificence – and I believe for the population – to be able to check. With such a regular update from the Directorate of Police, it is my hope that this will appear as a fact – an actual development – that it will also be possible for all political parties to deal with whether they want to discuss policies on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1074	Yes, I've registered it. But the question remains unanswered. What annual work, which jobs, is included in the figures published by POD? If you include the canteen worker, the cleaning officer, civil positions, you include every year’s work – everyone employed within this chain – in these figures, or is it such that you operate with what it was cross-politically agreed in 2006, that there were only operational officials and women who were to be included in the coverage that we were mutually agreed to have two per 1 000 inhabitants in 2020? These are the questions the undersigned wants an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1079	Of course, they don't include civil positions. They therefore do not include canteen staff. This is about those who have police training and the categories of posts in which officials with such training are involved. Of course, the statistics that will be regularly updated by the Directorate of Police will also be based on the report on which the police report against 2020 was based. There is enough room for the representative Sandberg and I to agree that it is important to lay the groundwork for a policy that ensures increased staffing in the Norwegian police force. There will also be other job categories that are important for the police to handle their tasks, but an increase in the number of officials we both want.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1085	First, I have to say that it has some entertainment that government representatives use the July 22 Commission as proof that the Right and Advance Party are wrong when we have proposed our own ICT strategy in Stortinget, several police officers and central civil employee strategy. It's quite entertaining. My question – since the Council of State has been present throughout the debate – is again linked to ICT. How much is going to be drawn from the police districts in 2013? There's a number that the Storting will know when we're going to adopt the budget later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1092	Luckily, considerable efforts have been made to ensure that ICT is invested in the police and relief services. Therefore, far greater funds have been invested in recent years than had been done in the past. It is worrying that the July 22 Commission also points out that not only is there too little investment in ICT, but there is also insufficient competence to ensure that the ICT that you have is used effectively enough. I think we'll see an increased investment in ICT in the future, and that the share of the operating budget is likely to be at the level of the current year. I consider this fundamental as a professional decision that must be based on good plans for further investment in ICT, which also makes it possible for well-qualified officials to perform their tasks where new technology also plays a significant role.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1097	Then I find out that the Council of State does not know – or does not want to inform the Stortinget about – how much will be withdrawn by the police's operating budget next year. That was interesting. That's exactly what former government councils were dealing with against Stortinget. I have a question related to management culture, because it totally agrees that is important. There the Commission is very clear, and there the Council of State has said many times that you want a good management culture. Then I wonder: there are many signals from local teams that there are established fear cultures in several police districts. For several years, the Police Directorate has been given notice of specific police districts where there is fear culture. In response to me, the Council of State has stated that there is no culture of fear, and POD has said that they do not recognize themselves. What is the reason why POD sits on written information from specific police districts that they do not further inform the Council of State, and why does the Council of State not notify Stortinget of what they intend to do with established fear cultures?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1106	I do not experience money spent on ICT that has been withdrawn. I experience them as a priority for important purposes, and where it is of course very important for ICT investment to have a solid professional foundation. I have therefore indicated what is a likely share of ICT investment next year. When it comes to management culture and fear culture, we've discussed it. It is quite right that the representative, Mr Dahl, points out that this is not least linked to the Oslo police district. I am very concerned to ensure that the guidelines of the Alert Authority, in line with other state agencies, are properly and properly implemented. The specific question that I have received in writing from the representative is, of course, to be answered. This will happen with the first, but I can also assure the representative that I will ensure that we have an even better warning system in place than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1113	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1116	The 2013 budget is taking a new step towards strengthening security and preparedness in society. The bulk of the reinforcement is to follow up proposals made through the work of the 22nd July Commission. It is important that we work towards a society where people experience security, participation and membership. If we are to create such a society, as we all want, it is crucial that justice policy is well-functioning. For the Labour Party, justice policy is not isolated from other policies. Justice policy is welfare policy, and welfare policy is justice policy. The Gjørv Commission concluded that, after 22 July, the lesson was largely about leadership, interaction, culture and action. These areas were much more concentrated than the lack of resources, the need for new legislation, organisation or high value choices. Against this background, next year’s budget has a specific emphasis on change management in the justice sector. Nevertheless, it is also important to strengthen concretely some budget areas linked to security and preparedness. The government's judicial policy will contribute to more security, less crime and good legal certainty. Often the government is criticized that there are too few policemen in the streets, and that the police get too little resources. The fact is, the police have been strengthened by over 4 billion. kr since 2005. In addition, the record height of 720 new students has now been added to the Police College for several years, and the first grade of 720 students will be graduated next year. I don't like to be owed to former bourgeois governments, but there's no doubt that the biggest challenge today's government inheritance from the Bondevik II government was the lack of people in the police and county seats. For 2013, we're increasing the permits to the police by 150 million. This is because we want more operational staff in all police departments. About 70 new annual works will be linked to the Oslo police district, while the remaining 280 annual works will be distributed to the police and countymen's seats around the country. Increased police force is important in the fight against crime and in prevention. It's a pleasure to record that the percentage of intelligence is higher than 10 years old, and that crime goes down. This shows that it is possible to fight back crime. The biggest challenge is the lack of people in the police and county seats. That's why today's government is doing three important steps, simply providing for a larger budget, more students at the Police College and more. Finally, I want to focus a little on the proposal to allow 176.6 million. kr to build a new defence management. The new Verjemålslaw, adopted by the Stortinget in 2010, will ensure greater legal certainty, more non-discrimination and improve the quality of defence management. The Government proposes that the new laws will take effect from 1 July 2013. This will lead to the closure of today's head offices in the municipalities and to the creation of a new local authority for the protection of property. In addition, a central protection authority shall be established in Hamar. Another important element is that a new representative system for single minor asylum seekers should be integrated into the protection system. This will strengthen this group's legal position. Among other things, the tasks of representatives are clarified and we have a more unified system of recruitment, training and supervision. Today we have a defence law that was passed many decades ago. That's why it's now in place to make a change that's adapted to today's society. In addition, it is good that there will now be an individual-adapted object. With new protection laws, the government is ensuring that vulnerable groups increase legal certainty. The bill emphasizes that each individual has a right to respect and protection over his trials. I look forward to the promise being made in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1142	The Progress Party, through its alternative to the budget in the justice sector, shows that the party is capable of action, has visions and, not least, is performance-oriented. The government parties are paralysed, with no vision and no ability to deliver better preparedness, visible police and an effective judicial system. The situation in the courts is critical. A modern country is entirely dependent on an effective dispute resolution system that helps to resolve disputes in a legally correct and effective manner, so that the defendants in criminal or civil disputes can have the matter settled quickly. This requires political will to bet on the courts. In Norway, this can be done quickly and with relatively simple means. The willingness to act is central, and there is a lack of government in this case. After increasing the number of cases before the courts in 2010 and 2011, in order to avoid what was thought to be a temporary increase in the number of cases, it is now decided to carry out a cut in spite of large warnings very well in advance. This was also a topic in this debate last year and through several consultations in the United Kingdom. In the same way, you don't want to listen to the facts. The Court administration has for a long time briefed the Committee on the situation and on the possible consequences of alerts. The judges have gone to the unusual step of writing letters to the Committee on the situation. In its letter to the Committee, the Court of Justice has identified error-findings and asked to be able to re-prioritize within the framework, without authorisation. This applies to miscalculations concerning the remuneration of judges and court guards in connection with the introduction of the Data Storage Directive. The poor ICT situation persists, and the Minister of Justice does not address key challenges in the Court of Justice such as structure, staffing, the jury system, the building mass of central property courts and the increasing complexity of the cases, leading to increased waiting times in the courts. Professional development was also downgraded. The Progress Party will increase the budget of the courts by 50 million. kr. We are honest enough to admit that this is not enough, but it is a significant phase-in within a year and shows a clear willingness to bet. The Progress Party is clear that the ICT situation needs to be resolved, and I would argue that it is molbo policy to adopt a new penal code and let an infinite number of years pass before the law can come into force. What's the point in a modern country about organizing so badly? This shows that the Workers' Party has come into a serious bureaucracy. The systems have become too complex to implement the necessary projects. Competence is too weak, and the leadership role has been seriously underestimated. This will have serious consequences that will harm society. The Labour Party shows paralysis of action, the Advance Party shows action.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1157	The President would point out that ‘molbo policy’ is an unparliamentary expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1160	On the right, an alternative judicial budget involving more money for the justice sector and, in particular, for the police. It's because we think the police need more money. We need to strengthen social security by having a reinforced police force. But on the right, we also believe that it is important that we get more impact from the means given to the justice sector, including the police. As an example of just this last one, I'm going to use the Traavik report that came yesterday, about PST, which is one of our most important front lines in the defence of our democratic values. We all have a common interest in having a PST doing the job we expect. The Traavik report shows major deficiencies, not only in the PST, but also in the relationship between the PST and the ministry. It refers to a weak governance dialogue between the ministry and the PST, and it indicates that there has been an excessive focus on detail in the communication between the ministry and the department. It is an example of how we need to work more systematically to get more effect out of the justice budget, that we need to focus more on competence and management from the department level to the agencies. At this time of enlargement, the right has been voted down twice on our proposal to have a police study for the justice sector and the police separately – voted down twice. Our intention with that police study was just to focus on leadership, competence and more impact. Then we hear that the Council of State points to the Right and the Advance Party that wants us to have as little money as possible for administration. No, it's not just the Right Party and the Advance Party that will. I would like to correct the Council of State at that point and refer to the vote on page 15, where a unanimous committee writes that ‘minimum use is made for administration’. It is therefore an overall committee, all parties, and therefore a clear enlargement. So this isn't about devoting attention to administration, it's about increasing the focus on management and role clarification. Organized crime may have come to the fore in the public debate after the Gjørv report and its follow-up. From the Right, it is important to keep an eye on the fight against crime that we see developing in society. Organized crime is increasing, it becomes more violent, it is better organized, it becomes increasingly borderless in terms of the violence being committed, and it spreads across borders. It is worth noting that Kripos is concerned that more and more young people are recruiting to organised criminal environments, including the United States and Japan. The MC environment. Right, a proposal to combat the one-percent MC environment last year, and we received unanimous agreement from the Stortinget on, point one, that an action plan should be drawn up for the municipalities, so that they can carry out their prevention work more effectively. We're still waiting for that. It's looking for the right. The second major decision was that there was a great need to increase the protection of witnesses and informants in relation to threats from organised criminal environments, and that, therefore, a legislative proposal should be made at this point in the current year. We have still not received that, and on behalf of the Right I think there is reason to ask where and when that matter comes from. The right has taken seriously the signals we have received from national courts about failing means of both recruitment and skills development. I refer to the alternative budget of the Right, where we strengthen both the courts and the higher prosecution authority. Finally, I would like to point out that we have a large number of unpaid bills that are made visible in this budget. It's going to challenge this Big Thing, and not least it's going to challenge the next Big Thing. Time does not allow me to elaborate on it, but I refer to the Right's budgetary remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1179	Crime prevention is an important part of both justice and welfare policy. Norwegian criminal services are of high quality, and Norway has among the lowest rates of relapses into new crime after abduction. This isn't random. The government's conscious commitment to criminal services for more than seven years has contributed significantly to a safer society. The government put down a thorough and good work in St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008 – Punishment that works. The notification is continuously followed up by the government through targeted actions with a strong focus on the content of the settlement. Development of housing capacity, alternative forms of housing, provision of training, health services, night work, nurturing, etc. provide a better starting point for convicted offenders to manage after an acquittal has ended. I can mention detention centres in prisons, the establishment of drug programmes with judicial control and compensation with electronic control. I am very pleased that the government wants to facilitate that children of convicted offenders will be able to maintain contact with their parents. This is very important for both the children and the parents during and after atonement. The government has established over 870 new settlements. The pay queue has been significantly reduced since the government took over after the right-wing dominant Bondevik II government in 2005. At that time, the settlement queue was about 3,000. Now on Friday it was 695. Due to high levels of capacity utilisation in prisons, employees experience increased labour pressure. The majority are therefore pleased that the operating budget will be strengthened by 14 million. kr in 2013. However, we are concerned whether the increase will compensate adequately for the increased labour pressure and will therefore follow the manning situation closely. All the main resources of criminal services are employees. Their professional competence and their commitment are essential to the success of the return operation. This is why the government has placed great emphasis on just education and development of competences. Emphasis has also been placed on enhanced inter-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation. The recruitment of 27 repatriation coordinators and Nav in prison are concrete measures that help to prepare those with the greatest challenges to respond after release. Employment through school or work, owner-occupied housing, night work and activity offers are important keywords. Crime prevention also has good cooperation with non-governmental organisations, which contribute significantly to the repatriation process. All of these deserve tribute for their efforts. The appropriations for this purpose have increased from 13.9 million. SEK in 2006 to SEK 23,7 million. kr next year. I am proud of the great promise made by the government in criminal matters. The next year’s budget will facilitate the further development of criminal services through a wider range of settlements, increased skills and improved activities. In particular, it is to read the budgetary comments of the Right and the Advance Party. They have little positive to say about the criminal code. With the exception of the Progress Party, which wishes to expand its settlement capacity, neither the Right Party nor the Progress Party proposes improvement measures. On the other hand, the Right proposes to cut the budgets in criminal custody by 5 million. kr. This hardly provides better criminal care. Several have argued so far that the Right Party and the Progressive Party want to discriminate between foreigners and Norwegians in prison. The party of progress says that non-residents should zone with lower standards than other prisoners. The reason is that Norwegian prisons are not deterrent enough for foreigners. The right has launched similar proposals in its programme proposal. On the other hand, the government wants to create its own compensation offers for non-residents in order to develop an adapted compensation offer through, among other things. coordination of resources, targeted interpretation services and adapted training for prisoners. The aim is to prepare settlement transfers to the home country and prevent new crime from being committed after transfer and release. For us, it is not relevant that a worse offer should be made to foreign prisoners, as the Right and Advance Party are calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1211	I have had the pleasure of being a member of the Justice Committee for one year, and this year I have gained an insight into the Norwegian police and judicial system that has given me knowledge and many reflections and thoughts about the area. I take the conclusion at first: I thought it was better in our justice sector in terms of resources than it actually does. I have been given insight into the situation for the Norwegian police, and there is a lot of lack here. Given how little is spent on the police, it may not be a surprise, but it should be a simple matter to increase the budget in crucial areas. This is in stark contrast to the situation description that the government has foreshadowed. Why can it not be admitted that there are some challenges in this sector that the government has not solved? I hear a lot of boasts about everything you've done, but there's a lot of shortcomings in fighting crime, and the police are facing major challenges. Let me take this with the job of police and political workers who have completed their education and are ready for service. According to the government's figures in the draft government budget, it's only 64 pst. of those who were newly educated from the Police College in 2011, who now have a job in the police case. It is possible that the number is a little higher – based on the linecode exchange earlier today – but in any case: not everyone has got a job. The Progress Party has for several years warned against training policemen for unemployment, while the districts are screaming for more police officers. There is a shortage of police officers in the individual districts. At the same time, cross-political agreement has been reached that staffing should be increased to two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants by 2020. But you're way off target. It goes at such a pace that the goal is likely to be nothing but a fine goal. In this picture, it is especially that the government no longer prioritises the police, and ensures that police-trained personnel get a job. That is why the Progress Party today is promoting proposals that we should issue a guarantee of employment to all the police students who have completed the three-year police training. The guarantee shall be valid until the target of two officials per 1000 inhabitants has been reached. I've heard the Minister of Justice say that you want everyone to get a job. Today, it should be a simple matter for the red-greens to join us in issuing this guarantee to the police students. The progress party believes that more effort must be made on the ground crew until it has reached a robust level. Police districts' operating budgets are already under heavy pressure. Unfortunately, with the draft budget now before us, which will be adopted later today, in many areas it will be more urgent. This will result in problems for the various police officers to maintain a proper level of staffing and preparedness, while at the same time not being able to give priority to the tasks that are important in each district. In order to get a robust crew in the police case, it is also necessary to invest in other measures. There is a great deal of expertise in the police that you can make use of, among other things. of the seniors who have just retired. This is an action you can step up to get former police officers to do a job and assist in the good way you have seen, among other things. in the pilot project here in the capital. Civilians with special competencies should also be able to be brought in to improve the quality of police work. We will probably come back to this in an interpellation debate later today. I am pleased that the Progress Party is proposing to increase the operating budget for the police by 150 million. kr. It's basically little money, but it'll mean an incredible amount to fighting crime. Then we have to put in place a separate investment budget for the police. The police have a huge lag on materials and equipment. The greatest need is actually investment in a new ICT system. Calculations show that 2.3 billion is needed. kr to ICT investment in the sector. The 50 million. kr as proposed by the government will be very small in this context. I come from the border state of Eastfold. I have had the pleasure of visiting the customs station in Svinesund and have also had good dialogue with customs officers and police in my county. It is important to intensify efforts to stop more crime at the border. Smuggling and trafficking are major problems it is important to do something about. This is done most easily if you stop the introduction at the border. The employees at the border do a great job. That's enough to refer to the situation that arose on July 22nd last year. Then, unfortunately, there was a lack of resources and safety equipment on the part of the officers, which could have put them in a dangerous situation. Therefore, it is important that at the country's main border crossings, we take advice to get the necessary investment in place. I am pleased that the Progress Party is proposing something more money also for our customs office, then in the budget area of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1238	Large task portfolios call for more and more policemen. In addition, the county-Norway police have large geographical distances to overcome. The lessons since July 22 have been many. Getting a well-equipped police force is the most important investment we as a society can make to prevent and manage serious incidents and estimates against the security of society. The Troms bench has met with the police this autumn in both the Troms Police District and the Middle Hålogaland Police District. The message from the two police districts was clear: more policemen are needed, while it is important to have the opportunity to renew equipment and car parks. All-needed ICT investment also eats noticeably from local police budgets. Then we know that the new emergency network will require significant local co-financing in the years to come. This is the background for the Right proposing an increase to the police of 350 million. kr in 2013. The right considers that the police need to be better equipped to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges. We will therefore strengthen the basic staff of the police throughout the country. We will propose our own ICT allocation to the police of 100 million. kr. The ICT situation in the police is really worrying and a major obstacle to a more effective police force. It is therefore very regrettable that the ICT area has not been prioritised under the red-green government. Many police districts – such as the U.S. in Northern Norway – has huge distances between the extremes of its district. In many police districts, the resource situation has forced the organization of very large guard districts. This makes the police service vulnerable, as response time may be up to several hours. This is not a desired development. That is why the Right believes that police budgets need to be strengthened. Police helicopters are a very useful tool. The decision to strengthen police helicopter preparedness in the East is essential for the rapid movement of the police and for the active use of the helicopter in the fight against crime. In meetings with the police in Troms and Middle Hålogaland, we also discussed how cooperation between the police and the defense's helicopter capacity in Inner Troms can help reduce the response time for the police in the North in case of serious incidents. The police informed that there was an established dialogue with the Defense, which is positive to assist the police, and that with very modest resources of between 1 and 2 million. kr may be possible to ensure daily manning on the helicopter base on Bardufoss with a call-out time of down to 15 minutes. It is a fact that the police often experience coming after other emergencies to major traffic accidents. It would have been interesting if the Minister of Justice would have helped the police in Troms and Middle Hålogaland to get extra funds to try out a closer helicopter cooperation with the Defense, as described, to increase preparedness and reduce the time of evacuation. Increased activity in the north requires increased preparedness efforts in the north. Closer cooperation between police and defence will undoubtedly provide both better preparedness and better use of the overall resources of society. It is with great wonder that I have followed the government's evasive efforts to ensure a basis for operation of the adopted DNA laboratory in Tromsø, which a total collapse was behind the establishment of, the government parties included. The main reason was to strengthen legal certainty by providing a second opinion to ensure the quality of criminal evidence where DNA evidence can be absolutely crucial. Another central point of the establishment of the DNA laboratory in Tromsø was that Norway should at the same time receive its own education in the important field of legal genetics. After several tens of millions in investment in and certification of laboratories and personnel in Tromsø, it is remarkable how the government has tried to escape the responsibility for obtaining operating resources for the Tromsø laboratory. This has meant that the professional environment has been at risk of disappearing. That it's now found 3 million. kr to a minimum activity in real DNA samples in Tromsø is a step in the right direction. But this came after constant pressure from the University of Tromsø and Right, which believes it is serious that the Ministry of Justice has for several years failed to follow up the clear decisions of the Stortingen to strengthen legal certainty in Norway. It is mildly frightening to hear the representative Akhtar Chaudhry, who is running over the previous collapse decision, who takes it so easily, and who believes it doesn't matter whether we have one, three, six or ten analytical environments in Norway. This has never been said or meant by the right. What we believe, on the other hand, is that once the Storting has decided that we should have an environment for a second opinion, it is the government's duty to follow the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1257	The budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence for 2013 is an offensive budget. I am not going to repeat all the bets in the government’s proposals – which have been brought forward earlier in the debate by red-green speakers before me. I also think that some of the other posts had an ice spot of satisfaction, but it is well to draw it too far to say that this was continuous. I noticed that the Per Sandberg Progress Party believes it is wrong to strengthen research in the field of social security and preparedness. Obviously, the representative Sandberg does not see the need to secure the highest level of competence and to coordinate better the knowledge we acquire in the various sections and departments. This is not least very important with regard to the major challenges we face in cybercrime. Int. 101 S is just addressing this issue – in a matter we are going to deal with later today. There, the Right Party and the Advance Party say that ‘data security has a cost-effective side, but in the prevention picture Norway as a society cannot afford to be as prepared as possible’. But you can't afford research. If there is a social area where there really is a need to invest more in research, it must be in social security and preparedness. In particular, I want to highlight the ever-growing data crime. This is where all relevant departments want more coordinated and reinforced research efforts. For Oslo, and now in the last article, Tromsø, should not be the only two major cities that get the focus here in the debate, I'm going to make a move into Gjøvik. There is a prison that has been there for a very long time, but it is still well maintained. Prisoners are very satisfied with the offer given — and the follow-up of each sheep in order to be able to be rehabilitated. There are many good examples of their success. The prison follows the example of St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008. If the city is big, the prison is small – but small can be good – the results are, as I said, very good. I don't think you should cut the old prisons over one comb. You have to look at the state and what you get. We need every place that works well. But there is a great need — the Committee has seen seas — to replace some of our prisons. That is what we must give priority to. I have great confidence that the Minister will make good assessments of the capacity plan with a unit structure. Nevertheless, I think it's natural that the Storting should be involved in giving leadership, as is said in the majority's comment – I assume that the others really agree. The Right Party and the Advance Party go to the elections on big tax cuts, especially to those who have the most from before. If several tens of billions are prioritised for such a purpose, someone has to take the bill. We know from experience from the last time the Right was in government, that there will be tough times for the municipalities. With the Advance Party on the load, it'll probably be even tougher. Tax incentives provide welfare benefits, and then services aimed at children, young people and others needing a good offer in order to create security, participation and membership, as the Council of State said. Big tax cuts, as I see it, obviously mean less money for good prevention. The municipalities will do everything in their power to try to prevent it from happening, but with the tough tax cuts to be carried out, we know that it will be a tough price to pay for the local government sector. That's when all the joints are hit. With this rear carpet, I will not be impressed by the extra additions of the right hand parts. In addition, there is also reason to take care of where they take the money from. We will use society's resources to further develop good Community solutions and continue to invest in social security and preparedness. I think what is being presented today is a testimony to a government on the offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1283	I would like to say to the representative Hagebakken: if he goes in and sees what the Progress Party is proposing in terms of transfers to the municipalities in our budget – 3.5 billion. kr – which in many areas is earmarked for various statutory tasks, which ensure non-discrimination between citizens, whether living in Honningsvåg, Mandal or Gjøvik, I think that the representative Hagebakken might have seen it a little differently. Then we're here again, with many of the same challenges that we had last year – and the year before that again. Take, for example: prison capacity in the country. It has been detonated in terms of both custody and normal, closed spaces. The fact that free movement of criminals across borders from other Schengen countries is the main cause was also the representative Klinge, and there is no need to underestimate this – nor by others. The law and our judiciary are not adapted to the new criminal reality. The queues in the legal apparatus must be gone, as must the queues for atonement. It takes years and days for legislative amendments to be put in place. Therefore, it is alarming that the courts are being cut, that the plan for settlement capacity is not being presented, nor is there any additional limit measures to be in the forefront. That's it! The compensation for victims of violence shall in principle ensure full compensation for the victim. However, there are limited provisions in the Act on the Compensation of Victims. The new limit of 60 G, which came into the cold water of 22 July-trading, embraces the affairs of the vast majority, although unfortunately there will still be victims who will not get full compensation because of this ceiling. We in the Progress Party therefore believe that this ceiling is an unnecessary restriction. Removing it will have small economic consequences, but for those involved, it will have great economic and welfare benefits. That is why the Progress Party has put forward proposals to remove the ceiling, which we see all alone. Furthermore, we are promoting once again proposals for assessing the establishment of victim care. Last year, this was the whole of the Committee when we discussed the proposal for a representative from the Progress Party – the legislative proposal for amendments to the Law on Victims of Violence. Has something happened? No, no, no. It is particularly embarrassing when the Committee knows the background to the proposal and also the responsibility of the government parties to deliver on this point. I record that the committee has managed to reassemble on the proposal, but what does it do when the ministry and the Minister of Justice do not follow up? The volunteers are doing a fantastic job – taking the Rescue Company, taking the Salvation Army, taking all those who do volunteer work there every day, and making an effort for society. It is to me a thought that the government in its proposal cuts the grants both to the Rescue Company and to others. It's not a good profile. But: The Ministry is not only a Ministry of Justice, it is also a Ministry of Defence. I guess it's not going one day without a discussion of something in the ministry's business in the public room. One of these issues is police-defence cooperation, where, for most people — after the Gjørv report was presented — it has become even more topical to interact, together with and share information. Then we're in the emergency room. I cannot understand with my best will that we have to wait eight to ten years before we have an emergency centre up and up – a center where the government wants to place the emergency team, the dog group and a helicopter base. But is that in line with the need that exists out there? At the hearing held by the Judicial Committee in the context of the budget, the Norwegian Police Executive Team stated that the response of emergency services and police helicopters is important and correct. The action will be important for the police districts around and in Oslo, but has little or no value the further away from Oslo you get. It is therefore important to look at preparedness measures across the country. The trade union expresses itself in the same hearing: multidisciplinary efforts will also require multidisciplinary training. Regional training centres, which are open across emergency services and which stimulate joint training, will be essential to achieve a high-quality targeted response during major events. The trade union also notes that the new training centre at Alnabru in Oslo does not seem to focus on coordinated practice with all the emergency situations. Furthermore, ICT Norway had many points in its opinion that correspond to this view. So my question is again: why will the government be investing in an emergency centre that does not meet the needs we have in the future, namely interaction, co-operation and joint efforts between different agencies? It is no secret that the Progress Party wants more multidisciplinary emergency centres. There should be no difference – whether there is Petter in Lake Mosque or Anders in Oslo – with regard to having an emergency centre nearby.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1317	Providing security in society is an important welfare issue and a major public responsibility. Everyone should feel safe, whether you live on an island with 600 inhabitants, like Røst in Lofoten, or you are a young girl in the capital, on a trip home from a party – late – a Sunday morning. For all of us, no matter where we live and who we are, to feel safe, it is important to have rapid reactions and punishments that work for those who commit criminal acts. It is essential that the police are visible in the streets, and that the distance for people in the districts of the police is not too long. It is important to ensure that citizens have good access to justice and to ensure a rapid procedure. Available, high-quality, effective courts are essential for individual legal certainty. The courts in Norway are among the most effective in Europe, and for most types of cases in the courts, the average duration of proceedings is reduced. The courts are the most important sources of conflict in society. They have the right and the duty to decide on specific cases brought before the court, and they shall be independent. Many have mentioned the demanding situation in the courts, and I want to spend some time looking into it. Parts of the 2010 court action are continued in the 2013 budget. It is appropriate to say that the temporary reinforcement in 2010 was granted in order for the courts to be able to adapt the staffing during a period of increased access to the case. Due to the fact that many cases are still pending before the courts, it is important for the government parties to give priority to the courts also in the 2013 state budget. The partial carry-over of 20 million. kr is intended to be a permanent reinforcement. This will facilitate the maintenance of a high level of activity by the courts and the further development of the electronic procedures. And then we do something very unusual in the form of comments: we write that we will come back to the situation in the courts, and to the appropriations made to implement the Data Storage Directive, in the revised national budget. The Committee has received a letter from the Court of Justice, which has also been mentioned earlier in the debate, stating that the implementation of the Directive is unlikely to be implemented before the end of 2013. We will therefore come back to see if any of this money can be used for normal proceedings. The main rescue facility has been concerned about a possible reorganisation. HRS is based on a basic concept of cooperatives, where all the resources of society – state, county, private and voluntary – that are suitable for emergency efforts to save lives should be mobilised to help the rescue services. Such a model is unique in the world context and a very cost-effective way of operating rescue services. This model has been a basis for HRS for more than 40 years. The main idea is solidarity and cooperation, and its most important task, which comes before everything else, is to save lives. It is important for HRS that it is not subject to a body that can undermine what is at the heart of the model – that it is independent. A fisherman who gets trouble at sea shall not be afraid to contact HRS whether he carries anything he should not carry, or whether he has too high a prom. The entire Committee endorses the importance of the fact that the organisation set up to lead the interoperable rescue services is itself a professional, independent body without strong ties to special disciplines. HRS is a very well-known organisation internationally. The status has been reviewed over a longer period and has given Norway considerable influence over decisions taken. Finally, I would like to add some comments to Aspaker's articles on the Rechtsgenetic Center in Tromsø. In the budgetary position of the Health and Welfare Committee, which has not yet been discussed in this Chamber, it is proposed to grant 3 million. Extra kroner. The resources shall be used for the development of competence and research. The rector of the University of Tromsø, Jarle Aarbakke, says that he is satisfied with this: ‘This is a great day for legal certainty in the Kingdom of Norway.’ The health and care committee has done a step in the right direction. There will be competition between the Legal Genetics Centre — RGS — and the Forensic Institute — RMI — which is likely to reduce the waiting time for DNA analyses. Right will cut in the allocation of DNA analyses by 10 million. kr. This is because they want to use more private analysis agencies. Well -- how can using private make it so much cheaper? Nevertheless, you have to have equipment and people who have to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1335	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1338	One of the starting points for the Right's work on alternative budgets has been that the government has had a lot of focus on preparedness, but has forgotten to focus on the regular police tasks and also forgotten to focus on criminal care. When we read the capacity plan of the central government of criminal services, there are some aha experiences for us who do not work on a daily basis with justice policy on the Stortinget. We have 44 prisons in Norway, and we have 16 prison wards. 21 were built before 1920. 35 of the 60 prisons have fewer than 50 places, and 25 of them have more than 50, but not many have very many more than 50. In the justice sector, we have seen that both the police, the police and the courts have been through both a structural change and not least a change in buildings, while in practice, over the entire seven-year period, criminal services to the government have achieved nothing but a new, large prison in Halden. Former Minister of Justice Storberget rejected the fact that new prisons were to be built in Norway, but it is quite obvious that it will be, and the government must note that. The right has had a good dialogue with the staff and trade unions in criminal matters, and it is with them that the Right has a wish for this prison plan to come to the Stortinget. Because if you agree with a reality description where you have to do something about the structure, you agree with the interesting calculation that shows that a contraction, for example. of Haugesund prison and Sandeid prison have an effect of 10 pst. and provides funding for an investment of 100 million. kr – and if savings are included in all police officers in Norway who carry them back and forth between interrogations, back and forth between prisons, a disproportionate share is used for things that are not effective for anyone. The right has taken seriously the reasoning in the new penal code. When it finally starts to work, the point is that those who have committed a criminal act are to be judged more quickly, they are to be punished longer and they are to be in prison longer. Strengthening the police means that the police will take the criminals. The point of that is that several of the criminals are in jail longer, and more criminals are to be taken. It has implications for prison ambitions. In their comments, the right has also looked at the possibility of e.g.: public–private cooperation, which is carried out, for example: at the warehouses and other state institutions. If getting into an investment project is a problem for the red-green government, it is possible to have a OPS solution. So the right is dissatisfied with the government regarding the central government of criminal law, it should be anchored in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1353	Right hammers and hammers on that they've given more money to the police, and they want more police. Then I ask a simple question: where are these policemen to be picked up? On 15 October there were 300 unoccupied police posts, and 95 pst. Of those who were graduates, they had jobs. Where do you pick up cops to hire where the Right says they'll hire them? For the SV and this government, it is important to ensure that we have a competent and close police force that enjoys high confidence in the population. Today we have. It is important that the distance between people and the police is as low as possible, and the threshold for contacting the police must be low. We should be very critical of anything that could hinder this dialogue. Nearly a majority of the delegates to the Police Federation National Assembly have decided that they should work for the general armaments of the police. This is what SV believes for many reasons is a wrong track, and we are not alone about that. Nor is it supported by those with competence in Norway, nor, in fact, in Norway. As I mentioned earlier, the evening post reported that 76 shots were fired by the police in Sweden last year. The Norwegian police did it once. We have great respect for the men and women who make Norway safe every day, but we believe that arming the police will make the police unsafe, not more secure. I asked a question to the committee leader from the Progress Party: what builds the Progress Party’s view on when they want to arm the police – what investigations, what competences, etc.? Then the representative said that he was not quite sure about it yet, and referred to a question he had sent to the Council of State. I have picked up the question that the representative sent, and it says: ‘What time use and cost framework does the Council of State see as necessary in order to establish a firm armament for operational police officers?’ He spoke to TV 2 Politically: ‘When both the police and the public are insecure in our capital – then it is worth an attempt to put general weapons in place in Oslo.’ The question is: Has the Progress Party taken a decision, or has the Progress Party not taken a decision to arm the Norwegian police? And if the Progress Party wants to arm the Norwegian police – on what basis do they do it? How are they to justify implementing this measure, which will change Norwegian police and Norwegian society for eternity?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1374	We are a small country with challenging geography and limited resources. In terms of preparedness, we have to think completely. We can't build parallel structures within every emergency, we have to think completely and make the best use of resources. That means that we also need to build up some mental divisions, and we need to make the necessary investigations of legal structures that ensure optimal use. Then it's also a fact that preparedness costs. There is no better preparedness in the country because today the Storting is adopting formulations on increased preparedness; it will only be better prepared when the appropriations are accompanied by the measures we are adopting. It has taken the consequences of this in its alternative judicial budget, where, in particular, in the rise in the police-defence border, we are putting in increased appropriations to improve preparedness. Besides, it's important to know what capacities we've actually seen, not just on paper: what works? What doesn't work? I think there are still major challenges in both the police and the defense in finding out what we can expect to be able to use on the day the need comes. We've been given a new aid instruction. I belong to those who thought that the wording of the old aid directive was not the problem, but that it might have been about how to use it, and how to approach the aid directive. We have also proposed in the vote to ask the government to make proposals for legislative decisions setting the limits for the use of military resources and military power to civilians in peacetime. It is precisely to break down the distinction that can sometimes help to make preparedness more difficult. Let me stress that this is not about division of responsibilities, but about division of tasks. For example: Anti-terrorism is absolutely undisputed that it is the police who are going to solve it in Norway, it is the police who are responsible. But the police need to be able to draw more easily than they do today on the resources they have. From the Right, we believe that an assessment of the pre-definition of tasks where the police and the defence take on different tasks, respectively, can be one way to go. We have to increase interaction, we must not make it smaller and more difficult. In this context, it is likely that refusing to promote a request for assistance from the police to the Defense Department, which happened in connection with the opening of the Storting, does not exactly contribute. It's also the case that state secretaries have nothing to do with that chain of commands, but there's another discussion. Contributing to saving time and helping to raise skills is important when talking about preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1385	This is going to be my eighth and, almost certainly, the last justice debate. If I'm going to sum up this debate, it's not just the debate last year that reminds me of, that Sandberg was in, but really the last seven-eight years. If you're going to sum it up, I don't think it goes into history as very frontier-breaking. The summary also this year is that the government does not inform the Storting about how much is to be withdrawn from the police districts, and how much it may not be possible to employ police officers. After seven years, therefore, the clear ambition to establish a second opinion environment for analysis has been abandoned, which would really be a strengthening of legal certainty, especially for women who are subject to rape. If you don't think it's possible to do it in other ways -- well, what about using the environment that has better competence than the RMI, which spent years accrediting itself, as opposed to some of the ones we've proposed for many years? The representative, Tove-Lise Torve, pointed out that the Right Party and the Advance Party said very little about criminal matters. No, the Right Party and the Advance Party are concerned that we realize what we're saying we're going to realize by a big message. We stood together so well about everything in St.meld. No Thirty-seven. Each and every critical point related to the follow-up of St.melding. No 37 is based on the feedback we get from employees and their organisations, which says there's no point in adopting a kind of ambition that we're not close to being able to reach. And that's why they now call out a warning because you have 96 pst. upholstery. They, like us, want a capacity plan presented as their own case for Stortinget and get a anchor with a priority on which projects should be started in what order. In addition, I would like to remind you that the Right in its programme draft – it is probably also adopted – wants Nav to be used more in Norwegian prisons, we have been doing that for many years, and better medical coverage, it is under any criticism in prison today, and we want a redistribution of resources between Halden and other prisons within the framework of the Justice budget. It would help a lot of smaller units quite significantly. We want to bet 5 million. extra on volunteers. It's nice to have WayBack in Bergen for $1 million. kr may be able to inform all prisoners, and also the employees, who read the same printed paper, of the rights of prisoners in the event of their repatriation to society. One would think that it was possible to get as much within the millions of dollars as the large public systems already have. So they said a lot about those who take from the poor and give to the rich, etc. When you have had more poor children, more disabled people and more people who fall from high school, I think some red-green representatives could go a little bit quieter in the doors, given the budgets they have chosen not to spend on those sitting at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1400	At the end of the debate there is time for some summary. My summary here is linked to a fundamental amazement and bursting into reality after having heard the representative Chaudhry's last post, in which he calls for the Right's response to where we're going to pick up more policemen. Answer 1: We must stop the development of unoccupied positions in the police districts. I have not met a single police officer in these years who does not say that there are now unoccupied positions due to the withdrawal of central ICT funds. It's the government's responsibility, not the Right. Answer number 2: We must stop the leakage of experienced policemen who leave the police service and switch to other business services. It's the government's responsibility, not the Right. Answer number 3: It appeared during the debate that there is still 20 pst. by the police students who were trained this year, in 2012, who are not employed by the police. It's not the Right's responsibility, it's the government's responsibility. Answer number 4: We need to increase the use of civil servants who can enter and replace police professionals who are currently in the administration and who can enter the border between their civil competences and police duties. It's not the Right's responsibility, it's the government's responsibility. We could only strengthen the police force by the four arrests. That's my answer on behalf of the Right to the representative Chaudhry. Finally, I would also point to all the unpaid bills this government leaves to them as if. had to sit – regardless of the lot and lots – after the choice for the autumn. A quick summary: a new emergency centre, a new prison, which is mentioned as a major need, a new police high school and an unsolved cost to the emergency network. There is reason to believe that none of these four measures will cost less than 1 billion. kr each. There are many things to take hold of, and those answers are in the government, the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1417	The budget setting confirms a fundamental broad consensus on the main elements of justice policy, and I am pleased about that. Jan Bøhler went through many of the good results that have been achieved, and that right now we got the result from The World Justice Project, which is leading Norway to one of the world's strongest legal states, is in some way the dot over the i-en. But we're obviously not satisfied with everything, we're going to do a lot better. I want to try to answer some of the questions that have come. There were questions from the representative Werp about where the proposition for better protection for witnesses and informants is. It's scheduled to be announced next year. We have received information from the Directorate of Police that the Municipal MC Adviser is unfortunately somewhat delayed – scheduled for the end of January next year. There are several people who have been involved in the helicopter service. It's an important service for the police, not only the police helicopter and the hired police helicopter, but also the cooperation with the Defense. We need a better nationwide arrangement than the readiness we can take advantage of on Back, giving us. That is why I have asked for a new concept for the use of helicopters for the police. The cooperation with the Defence is central. Of course, it is also important for us to have a simple system of requests for assistance. As the representative Eriksen Soreide dares to be familiar with, I have opened the door to the fact that we are turning the principle of today's aid instructions in order to ensure an effective handling of those matters, but that requires a change in the law. The Emergency Response Centre is fully planned and is intended to be brought up as soon as possible. But with something close to a billion investment, it requires good planning and proper quality assurance of the project to ensure that we get good money. In some ways, this is what it is all about: ensuring the best use of existing appropriations when we also make good plans for new measures that also require new investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1427	Until the last Council of State was in on, about the Emergency Centre: we are not the ones who have said it will take eight years, it is the Progress Party that has come up with that calculation. At least a longer period of time is needed when making proposals that again address the issue of where the centre should be, by proposing that it be located in the Oslo area. Then the options that lie in the neighbouring countries will come back up again. It has not been established that the emergency team should be present at this centre. It shall be available 24 hours a day in central Oslo for sharp operations, and it is about seconds and minutes to arrive. Therefore, the location must be close to Oslo Centre. When the Progress Party opens up a debate on the whole concept of the Emergency Response Centre by talking about the fact that it does not take into account the need for a broad preparedness in the future, the whole question of what kind of emergency services you should have is sent out in blue more than what is in the government's decision to establish it. It was presented by the Prime Minister in the statement on the Gjørv Commission on the Stortinget this autumn. I hope and believe that we will get a firm realization of that center, and that it will be presented in the big news about the Gjørv Commission in the New Year. Regarding the question of how much will be used next year for ICT, such as: The representative Oktay Dahl has asked for it on a few occasions, I think he makes it a little more unclear than necessary. The Council of State said that a likely share would be such that it is at the level of what is set aside this year, i.e. 250 million. in the police districts. It is basically that the investments are part of the whole budget of the police, so that the final decisions on the investments are to be taken by the police themselves, and I think the Council of State answers as clearly as she can on how much of this money in the police budgets that will go to ICT. It implies that there is no change in the provision in the budget of the year. This, in turn, means that the money that comes into this year’s budget – i.e. money allocated to new posts for the 350 who go out of the police high school – is not affected by the provision for ICT if it is in line with the year’s provision, because it will be an extension of what you pick up this year. This will also be collected next year, and then extra money that comes to it will be used for new posts in the police department. Otherwise, I think it's funny that the right only allocates 100 million. ICT – it is also for exercises and equipment – when they say that they do not want to spend money in the police districts but that it should be centrally funded. This may mean that the right will slow down investment in ICT in the police when they only want to spend 100 million. kr, while consumption this year is 360 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1438	I didn't intend to extend the debate, but I think the post of the representative, Mr. Bøhler, was interesting, because my impression is that new information is coming. Then I would like to challenge both the Council of State and the representative of Bohemia: Is it such that the government has now decided that the Emergency Centre in Alnabru should be built within a shorter period of time? Is it the case that the content of this emergency centre is determined? That's the interesting information for Stortinget. The reason why the Progress Party has made a proposal is that our understanding is that we have decided on location, but nothing else. Progress and time use have not been determined. If you can realize this emergency center that the government has decided to do, it's a little bit interesting to know. I hear that in the post from the Council of State it is clarified that this will take time. It will take time, and I understand that it will take so much time that this will be included in the Storting Message with the background of the Gjørv Commission report to the Stortinget. But if you have other plans – a plan B that the Storting doesn't know about – it's interesting in terms of the discussion. The representative, Bøhler, is talking about maybe having an alternative emergency centre that's far away from Alnabru. No, there are actually alternatives on Alnabru to what the government fell down on, and that's what the representative Bøhler knows very well. If you're going to think about the emergency center in the future, there's more than one thing you can include in it. The representative Michaelsen pointed to the width of his post today, because this may also be an important part with a combination of several wards – emergency facilities, defence and others. So we know that we're going to build new police colleges, criminal services need new locations, we need new training facilities, and a helicopter base -- maybe for larger helicopters than what exists today. So there are several things that make the location where the government has fallen down on may not be sufficient for a future modern, efficient emergency centre to cover several areas. But if there are new points here, I think that both the Minister of Justice and the representative of Bohemia can inform the Storting about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1447	The representative Jan Bøhler gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1450	I think this should be reasonably clear. What I have said both in my main post and now in my three-minute post is that the eight years that the Progress Party is talking about are not a time frame established by the government. We have said that we will present the progress when the notification in connection with the Gjørv Commission's report comes. With regard to the contents of the centre, it is described that the police helicopter is supposed to be there, to have the emergency team there, to be able to load the emergency squad into the helicopter coming from Back, to have the dog service there, and to be assessed whether the bomb group should be there as well. With regard to the time perspective, it is my point that it will take longer to open up the debate on the location again and not as clear a location as the government had in the presentation this fall, that it will take longer to open up a much wider debate on the entire concept. So my point is that the Progress Party, with its approach, doesn't contribute anything to faster progress, while I hope we'll be able to clarify it in a good way when the big message comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1459	The representative Per Sandberg gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1462	It is said that the content of the Emergency Response Centre will be widely discussed when a notice is sent to the Stortinget. Then I expect the discussion to be taken there, so my question is, Has the government already decided? Then there is no reason to discuss this in this message that will come to the Storting? There may also be other points to discuss. Then you get accusations of withdrawing the process because you just want a debate on content. And in relation to progress: No, it's not the Progress Party that has said eight years. This government has said that it can take up to eight years, and then my question is, can it take up to eight years when there are alternatives that might mean that we can do it in three years? In that case, there is an important discussion for the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1469	The plans for a Emergency Response Centre in the August presentations this year, both from the Prime Minister and from the Minister of Justice and Security. The aim is to co-locate the emergency team, the dog service and the police helicopter, as it was said, and the site at Alnabru is available. However, it is necessary to make basic planning and not just start building. Of course, careful planning, including content programming and quality assurance of such plans, must be carried out. We have opened up the possibility to use state regulation, but things will still have to take some time. Estimates have been made of how long it can take. However, it is not finally clarified. Of course, the government is working to realize this as quickly as possible. I can just add that so far it just seems to be the Progress Party that has decided that this will take up to eight years. For my part, I want to work with the aim that this can be realised as quickly as possible, but of course with the quality that such an investment requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1476	After this response from the Council of State, I feel that this matter is still as unclear. Because if there's anything in the claims that it could take many years before such a center is in place, the Storting has to be notified fairly quickly. We need to get a case around this so that you have the opportunity to look at alternatives – it should not be surprising for anyone. This is a very important part of the debate on justice policy after 22 July, where this will be one of the main steps we need to put in place as quickly as possible. Of course, the Progress Party agrees that a thorough analysis should be carried out, but here the Council of State says that there are three elements to enter this centre, and then I see this as a conclusion from her side. There are many possibilities for introducing more elements into such a centre — not least the combination and interaction of emergency budgets — and therefore we need to look at whether this rapid decision by the government was well thought out. Stortinget needs more information about this. We cannot accept that it will go far into the new year before the Great Britain can get involved in this issue, which is absolutely essential for the debate on justice and preparedness in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1483	The representative André Oktay Dahl gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1486	I think it is a most timely warning that the Progress Party has come with, and that the Right also supports. For this is not about training an emergency centre – we all want an emergency centre in place as quickly as possible – but it is therefore about the way the Storting should be involved and given information in relation to future needs. In conclusion, I must also say that it is interesting to see how the representative, Mr Bøhler, who cannot say how much is to be drawn into the police's operating budget on the ICT side, begins to question the opposition's budgets, by how much we put on ICT. Then, as we did last year, in the past year, we have to almost guess what the needs are in ICT, based on the recordings we get, because the government would prefer not to tell us how much it is going to withdraw afterwards – after the budget has been adopted – which means that in January, February, March, April, May, June we will face a situation of employment challenges. So I think it's quite special that Bohemia obviously has more faith in the opposition's ability to think numbers than his own government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1493	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1507	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1516	Now we're going to deal with an important and fundamental issue. The European Court of Human Rights issued a judgment earlier this year that pointed out that there is a bias in the Law on Santa Claus §33, a bias in the balance between the interests of parties and the parties, and that the interests of parties are too much out of the paragraph. It is referred to in the judgment of Article 1 of the First Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, which forms the basis of the Strasbourg judgment. That article is about the protection of property, and we find some of the same entrance in respect of property rights also in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights, so that in the Storting we have here to deal with the clarification of the position of property rights in a human rights perspective. It's a very principleal, interesting and important discussion. Santa Claus has a long and – I would say – a good tradition in Norway. It has contributed to the fact that there has been a low threshold for the establishment of owner-occupied dwellings and own cabins or recreational dwellings. According to the case-law of the Ministry of Justice, more than 300000 fastening agreements have been concluded. All of them, most of them are long-term agreements. Then we got a change in the law in the Santa Claus Act, adopted in 2004. So it is the law and the paragraph that have been dealt with by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It was the Norwegian Forest Society that sent the complaint to Strasbourg. I want to thank the Norwegian Forest Geyser Federation for standing out this race. They have been alone to run the case on behalf of some of their members, a case where you know from experience that the way forward is long, and how the uncertainty is mildly said to be significant to the extent that one can expect to arrive at it. This is where you chose to stand out. I think that's reason to stress, and that's what makes us here today have the opportunity to raise our eyes and discuss both fundamental and principal questions. The examination of the Committee has just been based on this basis. And I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation on the occasion of the case. It has been quite intense – yes, not just quite – it has been an intense work, and we absolutely needed all the time we had at our disposal, to figure out what I want to call a balanced setting. There is a lot of symbolism in this case – there are partly quite clear opinions on both sides of the case. However, the Committee stressed that this is a temporary law with a very limited working time until 1 July 2014 – I stress 1 July 2014 – i.e. it is stated in the comments on a few occasions on 1 June. So it's 1 July, so it's a limited time period. It has been important for the Committee to reduce the uncertainty of many, both more firmly and firmly, in relation to this issue, and the Committee therefore considers that a high level of pressure needs to be put on the matter, with a rapid process and not least that the process to be managed by the Ministry of Justice is inclusive in relation to the parties concerned. I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation. I recommend, on behalf of the Committee as a whole, the position of the Committee, which is at the posts of the representatives, and thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1537	The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 12 June this year requires amendments to Section 33 of the Landfill Act to be made on a temporary and permanent basis after it is clear that the State's request for a reassessment in the EMD Grand Chamber did not come forward. After the judgment, uncertainty has been created as to the parties’ legal position in fixed contracts that have already been extended under Section 33 and in the event of future extensions. This is an important matter for many. There's 300,000 that have a fixation ratio. I hope that the arrangements of temporary law as well as the clear leadership of a unanimous committee on the involvement of the parties in the drafting of a permanent law will dampen the uncertainty and prevent disputes. I am very pleased that the Committee as a whole can present a unanimous position. A tribute to the case rapporteur, Anders Werp, for a good work and a great deal of cooperation, and a tribute to the Committee on Others, who together have stressed the need to reach an agreement – and have done it. I hope that in itself can be an element that can calm and normalize the situation as much as possible. The Committee considers that the best way to bring about a permanent legislative change is to establish a legislative committee representing the parties and that the legislative committee is investigating alternative provisions of the Law on Santa Claus paragraph 33. The parties have also expressed their wish to establish such a legal selection and appear to be prepared to enter constructively into the process in order to contribute to solutions which are found acceptable both to the fasteners and to the fasteners. The Committee stresses – and I would like to add strongly – the importance of a rapid final clarification on the legal situation between parties and landowners, and consequently the legislative committee needs to be set up as soon as possible and it needs to work quickly. I feel sure that the department will give very high priority to this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1550	I would also like to join in the honour that the rapporteur has so far received in the debate, and I can mainly agree with most of his views in his comments. The case of Santa Claus has had many rounds here in Stortinget. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 12 June 2012 states that the right of parties under the Law on Santa Claus to require the extension of fasteners under the same conditions as before the end of the feasting period is contrary to Article 1 of the First Additional Protocol to the ECHR on the protection of property rights. Here it is only for the Stortingen to note that Norway has thus been sentenced to amend the law on Santa Claus. It is too unbalanced in terms of the total value distribution between the anchorages and the awnings in the disfavor of the awnings. Norway is therefore required to adjust this in favour of the fasteners. In order not to create further uncertainty about the legal situation, we will also support the interim judgment, but will also clarify that it is very important that the work on the new and final law is started as soon as possible. The temporary law replaces Section 33 of the Landfill Act, which will clarify the parties until the new law is in place by 1 July 2014. The government shall have a favourable opinion in order to have been willing during the process to set up a law-making body composed of parties. This has to be reduced very quickly; there is little time to lose, and there are very complex issues to consider. The Ministry’s legal work is also important, given that the rights to the values represented by the plots need to be more balanced in the favour of the fasteners.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1561	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur and the Committee for their good work on bringing together a common position. Paragraph 33 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Land of Land and the freedom of contract of private parties is a serious step in the right to property, and the Central Party has been opposed to this provision since its adoption in 2004. The Human Rights Court has held that Paragraph 33 is contrary to the Human Rights Convention. This shows the importance of the fact that the landowners of the Norwegian Forest Association travelled the case. The consequence of the judgment is that the Storting must adopt a new provision on the extension of fastening contracts that comply with the requirements of the judgment provides for a better balance in the distribution of the capital increase after market value between fasteners and fasteners. When a decision was taken to appeal against the judgment before the EMD Grand Chamber, the Central Party Councils reserved themselves against this decision. At our discretion, there was no legal basis for an appeal. But most importantly, the judgment establishes what is our policy – the landowner still has the ownership of a land that is attached away. It is an important recognition that ownership also has a special protection, and is a central right protected by human rights, as the rapporteur stressed in his statement. The judgment is an important victory for ownership and for landowners. As the only party on the Stortinget, the Center Party has voted against all the amendments to the Landfill Act that have limited the rights of landowners. As a result of the judgment, a new provision on the extension of fixed-term contracts must now be drafted as soon as possible and must be in line with our obligations under international law. We have no doubt that the rights of landowners will not be respected this time either. As a consequence of the EMD judgment, the government has proposed a temporary law on the right to extend parties to residential and recreational homes. The provisional law shall apply until 1 July 2014, when the new extension law shall be ready to enter into force. Fixed-term contracts which are extended for the period until the final law is in force may not be extended for more than 1 July 2014. These are temporarily extended under the same conditions, i.e. the landowner cannot immediately increase the fixed charge in the light of higher market values. The unbalanced arrangement of the Law on Plotting has led to continuous rounds in the judiciary, including the treatment of changes in the Law by Storting. in order to clarify the conditions of the Constitution and now, at the latest, of the Convention on Human Rights. Changes have been made several times. Both parties and landowners now need calmness and predictability with regard to the law, both because the judgment creates market uncertainty and because there are a lot of issues in the legal system pending clarification. I am pleased that the Committee is making such a clear statement that it is now necessary to move ahead with a new, final provision on the extension. It shall enter into force when the provisional law is repealed on 1 July 2014. The Committee has decided that the government must set up a legislative committee as soon as possible to investigate alternative permanent changes to the law of the Landfill Act § 33. In the interests of both fasteners and fasteners, it is essential that a permanent, long-term and predictable system is put in place which provides for a better balance between the rights of the fixed and the rights of the accumulators. Thus, the legislative selection must provide a broad assessment of the access of non-participants to the requirement of new conditions and retroactivity. In the view of the Centre Party, this must result in the right to re-adjusted new conditions for fixed contracts extended by virtue of the Temporary Law. This is a significant and clear consequence of the judgment of the Human Rights Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1582	I'll make it very short. I find that this is a matter that has been under consideration for a long time, from the time the law was passed in 2004 and throughout the judicial system in Norway and in the EMD. I note that there is disagreement in the matter, but I also note that there is now unanimity in the Committee on how we should proceed and how we should finally decide the matter in Norway. SV and I fully agree with the rapporteur in his assessments, as they were presented in his articles. It is the justice that underlies SV's assessments in this case. There must be a balance between the anchorages and the awnings. That's how we can come to an agreement. It will always be in this kind of case that no one gets fully satisfied; everyone gets a little dissatisfied. But eventually it has to be that people are more satisfied than dissatisfied. That's what we're going to do on the SV's side. I look forward to the treatment and have confidence that the government will bring a good deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1591	I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal for a temporary law on the right to extend feasts to residential and recreational homes. This bill has its background in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 12 June 2012. The EMD came here to be attached right under Section 33 of the Landfill Act to require the extension of fastening agreements under the same conditions as before the end of the feasting period is contrary to Article 1 of the First Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights. The judgment is now final, and the Law on Santa Claus must be amended to take account of Norway’s obligations under international law. The legislative proposal currently under consideration by Stortinget provides for a temporary clarification of the legal situation in the period until the amendments to the Law on Landings are in place. After the proposal, the law shall apply until 1 July 2014. This legal clearance is important for the prevention of disputes and uncertainties among abductors and fasteners. We have a very large number of party relations in Norway, and these are fundamental rights issues. A rapid interim legal clearance is therefore required. The temporary law will replace Section 33 of the Landfill Act until the entry into force of the amendments to the rules of the Landfill Act on extension. It will initially extend the inescapable right to require extension under the same conditions as before the end of the fastening period, but so that the regulation of the conditions is limited to the date of the entry into force of the permanent amendments to the Law on Landing. In the case of fastenings which expire after the entry into force of the provisional law, the attachment may be extended under the same conditions as before until the entry into force of the amendments to the Law on Landings. In the case of fastenings which have already been extended under Section 33 of the Law on Landings, the attachment will continue to run under the same conditions as before until the entry into force of the amendments to the Law on Landings. In this context, it is important to distinguish between the right of extension itself as such and the right to require the extension of the attachment under certain conditions. Only the regulation of the conditions of the fastening is limited to the date of entry into force of the amendments to the Law on Landing. A fast extended under the temporary law or the Law on Landings § 33 will otherwise apply until it is cancelled by the attachment or the land is redeemed. What are the permanent changes to the rules of the Law on Landfill Revalidation on, including any questions of return, raise demanding legal and political issues. It is therefore important that the temporary law does not prejudge these issues, which should be subject to thorough assessments in the further legislative work. A temporary right to require extension under the same conditions as before does not appear to be incompatible with the views of the EMD judgment of 12 June 2012. What seems to have been decisive for the EMD was the overall shift in balance as a result of the fact that the Santa Claus Act § 33, in conjunction with the Santa Claus Act § 15, gives the parties the right to extend the attachment for an indefinite period while at the same time that the detainees in the cases assessed by the court would not have access at any time to specify the fixation fee in addition to the changes in the consumer price index. The reasons cited by the EMD in its judgment of 12 June 2012 will not apply with the same strength to a temporary right to extend the fastening under the same conditions as before, with the time limit proposed. Nor did the EMD provide concrete guidance on the legislative changes required, but granted a certain discretion to the State with regard to the closer balancing of the interests involved. I have noted the Committee's comment on the early establishment of a legislative committee to assess permanent changes to the Law on Landfilling and the need for a rapid clarification of the legal relationship between landowners and parties. I would therefore like to stress that I consider this to be a very important matter, and that the further follow-up to the EMD judgment of 12 June 2012 will of course also be a high priority matter on my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1613	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1616	The eye-catching and outstanding feature of this case is that the Right's view of the content of ownership, adopted in 2004, as regards the rights of the parties and of the parties in the event of the extension of fixed-term contracts, is null and void under the European Court of Human Rights. Today's law means that the whole increase in real value is due to parties, and that's what has been judged invalid by the 1st Protocol nature. 1, Protection of property, as described by the Advocate General, Mr Werp. It's a very clarifying verdict in relation to what the Right Party participated in in 2004, and it's incredibly strong for the Center Party to experience this. The case has been dealt with by the highest court in Norway. Owners of land have lost, but they have won the EMD. The case has its basis, among others. in a Santa Claus party in Numedal in Buskerud, where the fastener has obtained excellent lawyers and got the case out. What we are dealing with now is the question of the consequences of this judgment for us to amend Section 33 of the Landfill Act, on the right to extend contracts indefinitely under equal terms. That's what needs to be changed. So what we're dealing with now is a temporary law, a temporary law that must then apply from today's law was declared invalid, until the new law enters into force. The contracts entered into during this period must, of course, be irrigated on a sea-going basis, in such a way that those fixed and non-tethered parties who enter into contracts for fixed-term contracts during that period must be able to restate in such a way as to result in an economic settlement in accordance with what becomes the law of the future. It's the future law that becomes essential. The view of the centre party is that we have to go back to the provision of the law of the Santa Claus that the Stortinget unanimously adopted in 1996, where Gro Harlem Brundtland presented the bill. It stated that, at the end of a temporary land-attachment agreement, new conditions were to be negotiated. If the parties do not agree, legal judgement shall be exercised. If this creates unreasonable distortions in the relationship between land fasts and landowners, restrictions may be imposed on the regulation of the fast charge under Section 11 of the Act. What we are now talking about is a temporary law, where it has to be recalculated and where the important discussion is: what law will apply in the future? And according to the law that's going to apply to the future, part of the appreciation must also fall away from the fastener, not just parties, as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1632	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1659	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1675	The community is making, and should make, great demands on the Norwegian police. The Norwegian police have a lot of tasks: administrative, civil, order, investigation, traffic, prevention, emergency, etc. Closely everyone wants a more visible police force. When we dealt with the police role report in 2006, we were all concerned that the Norwegian police should be close, accessible and well managed. This time, more people stressed that the police’s ability to act was also a matter of providing the police with resources, equipment and methods that match the development of society and crime. The fight against organised crime, child pornography, child abuse via the Internet, money laundering from criminal acts and not least terrorism imposes high demands on a competent police force. A lot has happened since 2006. We experience more recent forms of crime, while we experience that new groups of people commit traditional types of crime because our borders are open, and people naturally move to a rich country like Norway. We have had several rounds of debate on the need for civil servants. Developments have been in the direction that the police action has gradually become more open to include civil servants and other professional groups. It hasn't been fast, and has been partly motivated by the need to teach naked women how to spin and the previous financial crisis. We still lack a national strategy for increasing the use of civil servants in the police action. I hope we get some clear conclusions with results reform. As I said, we are all concerned that the Norwegian police should be close and accessible. The question is whether people would rather feel that the police are partly removed and inaccessible. The trust barometer for the Norwegian police is still high, but unlike the health sector, where those who have actually met the health service are more positive than those who have not met the health service, the situation is the opposite for the police. It shows quite recent studies. People who have actually dealt with the police have a less positive impression than those who don't. Some of this is probably based on a feeling that the police don't have time for them, and that the police time is spent on things that don't affect what people necessarily think should be the police's core task. A new map is needed for the Norwegian police, but not just for districts. Thinking about numbers for police districts before we have agreed on what the Norwegian police are going to do is to start off at the wrong end and just move on boxes. We first need a debate and clarification on what tasks and objectives the police – and only the police – should have in order to reduce them, and then to ask questions about it in the police force are such that more professional groups than police professionals are to work on certain things. In fact, there has to be deep respect and recognition of the police department itself, and we have to ask ourselves the question: is this a task where it makes sense to use resources to use a person with three years of high school police education, or should this have been done by others? In some cases you need much more point skills, in others less. Do you necessarily get the best investigators by betting on a long - seagoing policeman, or can you get better investigators by getting people with other educations to receive shorter additional training? And: Does it make sense that potty stuff from e.g. The hub or tax rate is imposed in the way they are done today, where there is really not so much work left to do, but because of the resource situation, the police cannot prioritize them and set the ball in goal. For us in the Right, it is a paradox to see that in the PST as well as in the Kripos there is almost no debate that very many people who do not have police training, while to relatively recently it was almost unimaginable elsewhere in the Police Norway. You can see that in the Norwegian police there are tasks that are done exclusively by people with police backgrounds, without necessarily being required by neither law nor regulation. It is exemplified in the report I refer to, with answers from some police officers who assume that police training is required in order to be able to investigate — something that can be called into question. For one has to ask the question: why is it possible to use special investigators without police training on heavy, complicated issues, while requiring police colleges for less serious crime? Some police districts assume that police higher education is required to be the operator of the operating centre, others not. In this respect, we should discuss the issue of police professional competence to focus more on where there is a real requirement, and the issue is about some of the differences between police districts about attitude and culture, and not necessarily just evidence-based knowledge about the need for authority in the department. Perhaps you simply don't find the best candidates for a position among them with police training, either. It may be that those issuing passports and travel documents are best qualified to check the same documents at the border. There is good reason to ask why there are so many differences between police districts. Is it culture, or is there a lack of knowledge? In any case, none of the components should be in the way of good use of competences and resources. It's in that perspective that I think the NTL report is a very interesting input. What police tasks must be done by police officers and which are not, is a question that any police officer should ask himself. They should also have in mind possible secondary tasks, as well as a clear strategy for adequate training and the assignment of limited police authorities where natural. There are not particularly radical approaches that come, and much of what the report addresses is done in a number of places, but it is happening to a very varying extent in different police districts because POD has not yet developed a clear, central strategy for increasing and improving the use of civil servants, as the Right has suggested before. In order to avoid misunderstandings from anyone in this room: the right does not immediately take all the proposals over the table, and civil servants should not be used solely to balance budgets, but to create a better police force. At the same time, it's important that we don't do anything that we're very good at in Norway, that's to start professional struggles. But I am convinced that we could have implemented several of these proposals quite quickly if we had not subjected the result reform. We'll deal with it later, and then I hope there'll be clear conclusions and some signals that the Right has proposed. It would have been a force for the police that, after the Gjørv Commission's report, is now in a situation where, if possible, they are even harder pressed than before. And to make sure that not certain red-green representatives such as The representative Chaudhry or others would suggest something, it's not relevant for the Right to leave something about the use of power, to someone other than the police. It's a public core task. Our goal is a police force that is close and accessible, and that is not only in political parties, but also in reality. In that work, we also have to ask why so few will lead the Norwegian police. It seems as if it is a little unattractive to lead, when only two–three people are applying to become police chief or police director respectively. We're not going to make any great conclusions, but maybe that's something about the culture of leadership, innovation, and what it attracts people, without criticising someone who's sitting with police officers with names. But it's not easy to strengthen management cultures if you almost don't have people who will be leaders. The mismatch between people who seek to become police officers and those who want to become ordinary police — to put it that way — police officers are very different. Then we have to ask ourselves the question: what about the police that does that? Do you really value skills? And not least, do you really reward good leaders? Then I conclude the interpellation with a question to the Council of State: Which of the measures outlined in the report will the Council of State be able to contribute to the implementation in the short or longer term, and when, if possible, can the Storting see that more police districts than today have a clear strategy for increasing and improving the use of competent personnel, regardless of whether they have a police or other professional background?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1698	Initially, I want to make it clear that the government has a great deal of respect for the work and efforts of all policemen who have a background other than police training. We benefit greatly from the broad competences of the various professionals in the department – both because a number of tasks of the department require a different competence from that of the police higher education institution, and because today we have fewer trained police officers than the tasks assigned to us. All staff in the department help together to meet police targets, whether they are trained from the Police College, or they have other professional skills. In my view, the term ‘civil staff’ is misleading. It is negatively defined as all non-police employees. In some cases, the prosecution lawyers are referred to as civil servants, and at other times they are held in a separate category. What could then be referred to as the rest group includes everything from auditors in Ecokrim through administrative support staff and highly trained ICT experts to staff performing administrative tasks. This is a large and important group with very different backgrounds and different tasks. I therefore find it inappropriate to have a two-way between police officers and civil servants. I read the NTL report A modern police force as a useful contribution to the debate on the necessary link between task and competence in the department. It is important that this debate be conducted on a continuous basis, both in the central and police districts and in the county offices and police stations. Police have a very wide range of tasks, both in the so-called core tasks of order, investigation and prevention, and in administrative, rescue and preparedness tasks and civil justice at the basic level. Recent years' progress towards an ever-increasing range of occupations within the establishment is necessary to best manage all the tasks. In my view, it is also an advantage both for the working environment and for the solution of the problem that a workforce is not homogeneously composed. It should be broad in terms of education, experience, gender, age and ethnicity. I believe that the breadth of background and education is particularly important in an establishment that has so varied tasks and vast powers as the police. The principles of target and result management also apply to the police action. This means that individual managers are responsible for achieving the objectives and that the overall level should, as far as possible, guide detailed actions and instruments for achieving the objectives. Each manager shall put in place a strategy for achieving the objectives and shall use the available instruments. For the police, of course, employees are the most important resource for achieving the objectives. The individual police officer must employ, within his budget, staff with the competence to perform the tasks of optimum quality and then make the best use of this resource by his/her management and management. However, leaders need to deal to some extent with key leadership and jointly decided solutions. It is important that we have one police in the country, so that we have predictability and common solutions in areas where it provides greater efficiency and community. For several years, the Police Directorate has been working on staffing and competence issues to ensure that the entire police force is working strategically and focused on the exploitation of the overall human resources and on its staff planning. These plans must include all employees, not just individual groups of trade unions. It is therefore not appropriate to develop a separate strategy for increasing the use of so-called civil servants or other categories of employees. The composition of competence must be seen as a whole in order to meet the objectives of the establishment. Since there has been less access to police trainers than the need warrants for several years, the government has expanded the number of students at the Police College. In the spring of 2013, the first coal after the intake of 720 students a year comes out into the labour market. This priority does not mean that we have not been concerned with meeting the needs of more employees with a different background, as is the result of the increase in the number of employees in these groups in recent years. There are many reasons why police action should expand the number of professional groups and the number of people with different backgrounds than police. In my view, there is in particular the need for broader competences in a complex outside world that must govern this. The police high school provides a very good education for the tasks the police officers are primarily assigned to solve: order, prevention and investigation in contact with the public. It would not be appropriate to extend the education of the Police College to cover all tasks within a multi-faceted establishment such as the police. Other educational institutions do just as well. Then there's a leadership responsibility in the department to define the needs with the background of the strategy, and then make sure that the most qualified person is working on the tasks. This may be to supplement or replace officials in each type of task. I have to admit that someone in the police case seems to have hesitated to use skills other than those trained in the police for various types of tasks where others could do the job as well as – or better than – those trained in the police. It is good that this position is on its way out of the department, and that the police directorate's determined efforts to promote strategic competence planning in districts and special agencies contribute to this. I also point out that manning issues are covered by the POD's ongoing change programme, under the capacity, manning and resources response area. In today’s situation — with too few trained staff to meet the needs — we also look for solutions that can provide a good police service using other professionals. In functions such as custodians, convicts, border inspectors, operating centres, in security functions and in several other areas, staff with limited police authority provide good service after necessary additional training. Police need to continuously assess the needs and possibilities for increased flexibility in problem resolution. However, I point out that the police law provides that police authorities can only exceptionally be given to those other than those listed in the law. Similarly, there are a number of considerations that suggest that police high school employees should be able to get jobs that do not require such training. A good human resources policy meets the need for flexibility in tasks and working time arrangements at different stages of life for each member of staff. Pregnancy, age, illness or injury may mean that a policeman cannot go on tour or take part in operational tasks. It is important that staff planning takes this into account. I'm also concerned that the police have a good senior policy that allows us to keep the wise, experienced officials to tasks where they can appear as good role figures for the newly educated, and solve the assignments of experience and knowledge, even if they can't work on evenings and weekends. Emergency reasons may also, in particular in smaller places, indicate that the staff are trained by police, although a number of on-site tasks could have been carried out by staff with different backgrounds. Without these tasks, in a number of smaller places, there will be no basis for having officials on the ground, which will be very serious when events occur that require that the on-site first-person has a policy remit to solve the mission. I point out that in the first half of 2013, the government will present a communication on the follow-up of the 22nd July Commission. It will address these issues, but in particular the police analysis to be presented as a NOU in June 2013 will address a number of issues. The NTL report points to three measures to enhance the breadth of the police force's professional background: cultural change, knowledge and governance. As will have been shown, I consider both culture, knowledge and some governance to be important for the overall use of the police personnel resources, and I will follow up the implementation of strategic competence planning in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1728	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see with a little willingness as open and positive. I also agree with the emphasis that the concept of ‘civil servants’ may seem to degrade the efforts they make. Civil servants are employed by the police, they only have a slightly different education — perhaps even higher, or less extensive than the police — but there is no need to look down on them in any way, as some people can do when they are referred to as residual labour – so I agree. In the case of restricted police authorities, this is only necessary in the case of the use of coercive agents. Surveys, investigations — a wide range of tasks — need not be restricted to police authorities. It is natural to reserve it for those who are going to use coercive measures. But, as this report shows, there are a wide range of other tasks that are carried out very differently in the police districts. Hordaland has been good, and it is to wonder that other police districts are not inspired. One of the key points of the report is that in some places management does not have competence for what the legislation opens up, and not for what it does. Sometimes it's a culture where you don't want to let civil servants go. We had a budget debate earlier today where a number was made that the right obviously was not concerned with how best to use the resources – it has always been. We want more resources for the police, but at the same time that they are used as best they can. Then it's a very good idea to make sure that all police officers in all the country's police districts know the framework for what civil servants can and can't do, because there's too much difference. I have to challenge the Council of State on this: what is the concrete intention of giving political signals, including to POD, in order to ensure that at least all the police districts of the country have a more consistent attitude towards using civil servants more, and to use their money better – not least when you see that some districts have achieved very good results. I want to ask three specific questions to the Council of State: Can the Council of State just now say what is she thinking that civil servants can do more of? It doesn't have to be very obligating to say that, but can she say something about what specific tasks civil servants don't do today in police districts, which you can do more of? That's what I think was a useful marshall for both POD and the country's police officers. Not least, can the Council of State say anything about the political direction in which work is being done on the various programming messages? Do you want to facilitate fewer tasks for the police, or do you want them as they do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1741	Target and performance management forms the basis for our office management by the Directorate of Police, and clear targets should, of course, be followed up by clear demands for results. A lot has been said about how we want to put the etat management dialogue at a more general strategic level and how we now, together with the Directorate of Police, set up major change programmes to ensure this as well as better problem-solving and management in other areas of the justice sector. As part of this, the Directorate of Police will be more strongly directed at staffing. It is absolutely central that we ensure both the good use of the officials trained at the Police College and that we ensure a good solution to the problem by making use of the police and civil servants' seats also of other professional groups. Another area that will be part of the etat management dialogue is competence and requirements for development plans of competence, and it will be very central that greater emphasis is also placed on this in the Directorate. Of course, the Directorate will have to follow up the individual police officers in police districts and special bodies to ensure that such competence planning and development of competences are carried out — and are once again ensured through the dialogue between the Directorate and the various districts and special bodies. Police analysis will also be a central tool to ensure that the police use the forces on the right tasks, the right fields of action. This is why it has already been announced that a new border will be created, both against the courts and perhaps also against, for example, the courts. municipal authorities. We need to ensure that the tasks and work processes are optimised, and the analysis must ensure a good, long-term plan for the development of the police and officers' seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1754	Thank you to the interpellant for letting us discuss this important question in more detail. In the crew analysis called the 2020 Police Survey, which was developed by the Police Directorate in 2008, and on which we have established, among other things. the target of two police trainees per 1 000 inhabitants is what is termed civil servants in the interview. I agree with the Council's criticism of that concept, as the interpellant was, but I'm using it now until we find a better word. In this analysis of police personnel and competences, it says that we should increase the number of civil servants by 1 000. It began, with a fairly large rise in January 2009, when, as part of the crisis package, 460 new posts were given to the police – posts to be filled by civilians, so that police force could be released. In line with this 2008 analysis, we have gathered in the Justice Committee on a 720-year admission to the Police College. From the next year on and in the coming years, there will be a net growth of about 350 new people entering the police every year. Then the increase we get over the eight years up to 2020 will be at the far end of what is the goal of the manning analysis on which we are based. There are 2,700 new policemen who are the target. When we then get better access to police-trained employees in the police, we don't have to put civilians in positions where you prefer police officers, but we can better use them in areas where they are needed as their education, their skills and their background. That's why this discussion about how we're going to use civilians in the future, right and right, when we see that turn in the direction that we can also get better access to police trainers. There are a couple of reasons that we have to take. One thing, as the Council of State was about, is about local preparedness. For example: small janitorial offices, within small police holdings, are wanted to have police-trained teams as far as possible, because they can also take part in operations and have police authority when they move out – be the first person on the ground, have political implications. That's how we need a wide coverage of the country around. It will also be that some of the police officers cross the age limits, which are 57 years old, 60 years old, etc. In the police. When we are going to develop a senior policy, we may need to give these new tasks – when they come up in the years – that are less police operations. So the discussion about how to use civil servants in the police in the future should be the result of a comprehensive planning of the manning process – of the skills needed. We see that within Ecocrime and within ICT – those working on ICT crime at Kripos, for example. – are widely used for those with a background other than police training: those with economic training, those with ICT training, etc. That part of police efforts will obviously increase in the years to come, but there will be differences in different disciplines as to how the need for civilians will be addressed. That is already a great deal. We already have 800-900 police lawyers, and we have over 5,100 other police officers who have training other than police training. So it has a large amount, and it will have a large amount in the future. And everything will be related to budgetary frameworks, for civil servants, it is also not free to hire. So there must be budgetary resources for them as well. The police will then have to plan their skills and staffing needs based on the best possible impact, the best possible use of resources and the best possible police. As part of it, this discussion of the role of civil servants in the future is an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1769	I'd like to commend the interpellant for promoting this interpellation. It is perhaps the most important debate and discussion that we should take. Many would say that we should have taken this discussion a long time ago, because also in these areas we are a little bit behind schedule. I have a feeling that we're looking for social development to adapt, and that's regrettable. I wish you could get ahead and modernise in a way that would allow you to meet society, which is changing very, very fast. We all share a common objective that we should have a forward-looking, modern police force with clear, addressed tasks. I think that's one of the big challenges today, and then maybe you can question whether the justice field has become too big – that the scope and tasks have become too big. The reason why this is so important today is that we are in a situation where trust in the police is falling. And it's creepy scary in a state of law. The day that people lose confidence in the police, we have at least major challenges. Therefore, a focus must be on building a police force that people trust and that people trust to build security – because security is unfortunately also weakened. Then, I think, when you go into this debate, you have to be a little critical and ask the big questions, even if it might provoke. Then you have to go into what we've been discussing earlier today, the police coverage. Now, after the debate earlier today, I have gone in and tried to make a statistic and a number for what coverage we have. I think we are approaching a consensus on how the coverage is today, and what is needed to achieve a coverage of two operational officers per 1000 inhabitants in 2020. Then more grips have to be taken. One thing is to educate more. I still have, might some say, a conservative approach, that visibility and presence from the police are the best prevention tool we can have. It does not necessarily mean that the police should be operational in any way, but that they are visible and present. It's related to trust, as I mentioned earlier. There are several ways to increase police coverage. One is what several people have been dealing with in terms of division of tasks. We have to go through all of the problems that the police actually have today, and then we'll see how we can distribute them. It's related to the fact that we have to ‘feed’ the police much more in the future, and I'm absolutely sure that other agencies and institutions, including private ones, can take over an even greater part of the tasks that well-trained and competent police actually do today without being operational. Then one must also be critically involved in education. Is it so that we still have to train generalists, or are we going to look at the education course, so that they much more ‘are eating’ the police as well? Maybe we'll see if we can make education more modular, so that we can train different types of police, which can have point skills in different areas? I don't think the generalist should essentially be what we're going to focus on in the future. I also mention, although it's not popular: I think it's pointless use, or abuse, of skills and people to retire when they're 57. We're going to have to dry it up. The most important thing, however, is to look at an interaction with other emergency facilities, the Defence, and the interaction between customs and police. It is not least about structure and system. I finish where I started: Has the justice field become too big? Is it true that we should perhaps consider our own emergency department and bring together all the Directorates involved in preparedness and security? Today, this is distributed across several departments and several directorates. We need to look at the competence of the Operation Centres, what tools the police will have to have in the future, and that is not to say that we need to use any resources in the area of emergency networks, common emergency numbers or one, communication equipment and other types of equipment within the police. All of this must be seen in the context of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1784	There is a broad consensus on the direction of police training in Norway and that it is based on higher education and a Bachelor’s degree. At the same time, we cannot stand still and look at developments that also challenge the police profession as such. It is very good that the interpellant raises this question and gives us the opportunity to debate this from a general perspective. We see a crime trend that causes new problems for the police and also for the rest of society. Earlier in the debate today, we have heard about organised crime, we have heard about digital challenges, cybersecurity, information security, etc. – a development of crime that is constantly bringing new elements into the fight against crime. We also have a general social development that is in no way stationary. In addition, we all have with us the fact that the police are the power apparatus of the state, with the associated need for a clear framework for both the exercise of power and who will gain that trust and authority on behalf of all of us to exercise power on behalf of the community. That is the background for this topic to be of great importance for discussion. There are hardly any answers that are exactly based on the fact that we are constantly moving. Is a three-year police education based on a university degree the only answer we have from the Storting on how to meet these challenges? From the Right, the answer is not simple, and it is not obvious that the police are going to solve all the problems. We need flexibility in the requirement of both professional competence and education and background if we are to meet this. During its three-year term of office, the Judicial Committee has had many interesting and good travels in both domestic and foreign countries. We have had several, many, opportunities to look at how the police districts solve the challenges with competence beyond the police's reach, and not least we have seen many good examples of how to organise themselves in other countries using civil competences in the police action. It's a lot to learn from what we've seen. And if we're to put it into a proper framework here in Norway, we need a systematic and a more strategic approach than what the Right seems to be at the heart of this issue. I find it disappointing that the Council of State does not take up what lies as an invitation from the Right to start a work on a strategy in this area, but rather looks back. I hope that this can at least be a contribution on the way to getting more dynamism into the matter and raising my eyes to increase the police's competence in all the necessary areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1799	At least I perceive that most people are willing to think new to create greater security. It is a good starting point that no one has gone to the trenches, but is positive to increase their use – not quite in plain text, but I choose to interpret the Council of State and other representatives very kindly. The representative, Bøhler, was concerned that we have the police against 2020. Civil servants are included in this report, but in practice, as I mentioned in my main post, there are major challenges in using civil servants effectively. This is why, on several occasions, a central strategy for increased and better use has been proposed by the Right, and not least that they can be allocated several secondary tasks. For one thing, the number of civil servants is an independent point, but it is an independent point that every civil servant has a full year's work, and then it should not, as it has been, for example. on a negotiated day in Oslo District Court, arrest officers sit without doing anything but playing cards. While there is a sufficient number of civil servants, it is not particularly reasonable to use the resources of society that they are not given secondary tasks so that they can complete the whole week with tasks that create greater security. Then we have to ask ourselves, why do you need police training for that and that kind of task? It is quite clear that there are several police officers who have not asked that question. That's why some police districts are far ahead of the others, and then I allow myself to ask the question again: why don't you want a central strategy? What's the good reason why you don't want to do that? One must not just point back to old analyses, but say why this is unnecessary, when this report points out what we have known over a long period of time: there are large local variations, which cannot be attributed to anything but lack of knowledge about the legislation or lack of willingness to use competences as best as possible. This is not really a question of the budget, but a question of what quality we should have in the work of the police. Examples of people who get quite annoyed when they meet an investigator who can do much less about ICT than the one who reports, because in that police district, you are less open to using good people with different backgrounds than the police professional to investigate that kind of thing. Most people are calling for more visible police. There must be a balance between investigation and visible police, but an important reason to use civil servants much more effectively is to ensure that as many as possible of those in police training can be operational and out-of-office. I will end by pointing out that the Commission also points out that there are several thousand policemen, even under the age of 45, who are not operational and cannot carry weapons. It would have been a good start if we got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1814	It is an important topic addressed by the interpellant, and I would like to stress that there has been a central focus on competence – development and planning of competences – for many years. Nor is it that the perspective of what is being done now is retrospective. It is very central that we are looking forward to the challenges of the Police and Len’s Seat: What competence does the Agency need? For several years, the Police Directorate has been working purposefully to introduce strategic competence planning in districts and special agencies. Returning to disposal written for 2011, there is provision for both guidance on how this can be implemented and assistance from the directorate in police district leadership group processes. The offer is provided to help more districts work well with this, while in any case the requirement to work strategically with competence management in all districts and special agencies is expressed. The Directorate is also working on a pilot project based on a model of competence management. The supervision of the Directorate also follows up the work of competence in its reports from the districts and highlights the need for follow-up and development of strategic competence work. Despite this, competence and competence development are part of a specific part of the change programme that is now being implemented in the Police Directorate, and there will also be a central element in the police analysis, precisely because it is to draw up a good basis for laying a long-term plan for the further development of the police and county council. They have a variety of tasks, which can be technically complex and challenging, as also pointed out. We need to ensure that the department has the right competences, whether in terms of technology, economics or other social areas, which set the stage on new tests, as well as the tasks that have already been solved by professional groups outside those who are trained at the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1823	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1837	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the intervention of a member of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1846	The representative proposal, Document 8:147 S for 2011–2012, deals with cybersecurity and, not least, how Norway, as a highly technologically developed country, is at the forefront of this new – I will almost call it – age. We had a debate on critical infrastructure last week, when many of the important moments were debated by many representatives of the Justice Committee. The Committee also decided to consult the draft representative, since we considered this area to be so important, and not least forward-looking, that both knowledge and understanding of complexity are, in fact, alpha and omega in order to succeed. However, the Committee has not been able to agree on the proposal, where a request from the Government presents to the Storting a national strategy for enhanced information and cybersecurity. Only the parties to the Right and the Advance Party support this. Government parties believe that such a strategy is being explored and will come in the new year. Well, I'm probably a little bit in doubt about this, not least because the time aspect here is very important. What went well today can actually be a disaster tomorrow. Cyber literacy needs to be increased to a much greater extent in order for Norway to be prepared to meet all the challenges we are already seeing. So are we prepared? The Progress Party believes no – absolutely not. The security situation is weakened because the risk increases without following up with measures. In fact, Norway is at the top of Europe in the number of online banking virus attacks. Which of us sitting in the hall here now has not received the suspicious e-mails link to our online bank? It says a little bit about the scale. The Safety Council of the business community suggests that an estimated 34 000 so-called events take place each year. In just four years, the NSM — National Safety Authority — Department NorCERT has tripled the number of cases considered to be particularly serious. These have been mainly targeted data spy attacks against Norwegian industrial companies that develop and produce advanced technology. Just 1 pst. of these events are reported to the police. Do the police have any knowledge? Well, who is to be reported to when something like that happens? It is alarming that the figures show a frightening trend in which safety awareness is falling in Norwegian businesses, in parallel with an increase in the threat. Norwegian businesses, in particular managers, lack knowledge of information security and lack an overview of threats and incidents. Cyberspace has widened the definition of critical infrastructure and the threat picture. Therefore, information sharing in public–private cooperation needs to be put in place. Sharing information is the key to success, so the Progress Party believes that we can already launch different incentives to strengthen this cooperation. This has been done in the United Kingdom, with great luck. But it's not just knowledge of threats and vulnerability. A common understanding of the situation is probably so important. Here, much more needs to be done to develop advice and guidelines and to strengthen incident management. Yeah, how are we gonna do that? Well, we have to think completely about knowledge-building and competence, and we have to work widely in several areas. We need to learn early in among children and young people about data security as knowledge building in new technologies, and also as part of school education. Furthermore, we need to find the so-called wise heads that need to be recruited – not just in the private sector, but not least in the public sector. Then some carrots may have to be in place to make sure that these can work for the benefit of the whole community. There is a lack of ordering skills in the business community, which makes it particularly difficult to establish interaction and coordination between the public and private sectors. The Progress Party believes that Norway can be a world leader in cybersecurity. We have high technological knowledge, and we can turn around quickly. How fast, remains to be seen. When the government parties now don't seem to vote for any of the proposals, I would say that time is what we have the least of. I'll bring up the suggestions we're alone about, and what we're with the Right about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1876	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1879	This proposal addresses a very important topic. I agree with the description given by the rapporteur of the gravity situation and the threat this new area, cybercrime, poses to our society. I think the approach to this is common in the parties on the Stortinget, so it might be a little unnecessary to put in a very strong criticism of the government parties when we – as I understand it – have been informed that a strategy is coming before Christmas. There is certainly no reason to decide that the government should be asked to promote a strategy. It will get closer to the Council of State later today. At least it is right, as the budget that we have discussed earlier today, that this is a serious situation. It is said that since 2007, the number of attacks has tripled, that this situation poses a significant challenge in terms of vital national security interests and the security of society, that we see targeted professional attacks that evolve only in terms of how advanced they are, and that we have a lot of work to do. That's why we have added 32 million to the budget we discussed earlier today. kr to NorCERT, which gives them new opportunities to have proper, day-to-day operations and to carry out a better analysis of the individual attack. As a result, they are better able to prevent further attacks and to resolve them with the police and initiate investigations into attacks that have taken place. It is absolutely right that the percentage of information in this area is very low, and there is a need for a large increase in capacity. What is also clear is that, after this strategy has been presented, it will be further clarified in an action plan that is under way. It will address the measures needed to build up effort and capacity. There have been improvements in this way that Kripos have been given resources to do this. They have set up a structure to improve the ability to investigate and address these attacks — this year. Kripos has a new capacity. It is announced that a separate ICT department will be set up in the department with the additional funds for the Ministry of Justice that we have discussed earlier today. The Police Directorate has now also started a separate department in this area. We need to build up capacity across the line – across the police and in other sectors. We also need to see these threats as part of everyday crime, as part of what people are exposed to – high and low – around the country, not only businesses, but also individuals. This means that the individual police districts and the police locally also need to improve the ability to address these issues and show that they have the ability to solve this new form of everyday crime, as I will call it. This means that the fight against ICT crime, cybercrime, must become important in police training. This means that the police in the districts must have the capacity for investigations related to this type of crime, because it requires a completely different competence to search for seizures, for example. in computers. Today, that competence lies primarily in Kripos. It is a great task to equip society for this fight against cybercrime. There are many parts that need to be taken care of. In particular, when it comes to resolving matters, we have discussed the Data Creation Directive at Stortinget in the past. That's exactly where it's going to be able to store this so that you can get hold of it, investigate it and get information when you get a court order, go to the ICT companies and find traces that go at least six months back, be an important part of the entire offensive in terms of tackling cybercrime and investigating it, straighten it out, and avoid being subjected to these attacks to the extent that we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1894	This right-wing representative’s proposal has the following simple questions as a starting point: the issue of Norway’s cyber security and preparedness or information security. The right answer is that we mean no, we don't have enough preparedness. Let me do some examples. National strategy for information security was formulated in 2003, almost ten years ago. Much has happened at this time. Secondly, the national guidelines on information security expired in 2010, almost three years ago. So we have no current guidelines on information security at national level. Not enough – responsibility for information and cybersecurity in Norway is allocated to 11 departments. We are in a situation today where we are not talking for long about whether Norway is being subjected to a data attack. We're talking about when Norway might be exposed to a data attack. Then the main question must be, Who owns that crisis? In that case, the answer cannot be that it is allocated to 11 departments and that it should be handled according to a guideline that went out almost three years ago, according to a strategy that was formulated almost ten years ago. We experience an attack and threat image that develops almost logarithmically. It increases dramatically for every day that goes. We can't deal with this situation just by looking back. On the right, with all due respect for the present state council and its department, the FAD has been set up to deal with this matter. We wonder about that too. We had a case for handling in Stortinget a week ago about the data and information security of the critical infrastructure. During the examination of that case, it was in three departments, not one of them was FAD. It was the Ministry of Justice, it was the Ministry of Defence, and it was the Ministry of Transport. So in this case, by saying the same topic, it is FAD who meets in Stortingen to handle and answer the matter. It itself shows the lack of coherence and the obvious need to coordinate efforts and, not least, to clarify responsibilities. That's the right entry into this case. Our entrance is that we need a strategy, managed by a department that is responsible. So we're not talking about whether Norway is being attacked, we're talking about when the nation is being attacked, either at a bank, at a public institution, on water supply or on power supply. There are many attack points that are vulnerable. There is a lot of good work done around the different departments and in the different floors, let it be crystal clear. But when the Right promotes this proposal, it's because in that way we want to invite the Storting to a common political effort to meet this societal challenge. When we say that the Storting asks the government to develop a strategy, there is an extensive hand in getting a common ownership of this important matter here in the Storing and not just in the administration. The same applies to the division of responsibilities – that this discussion and this decision are taken in Stortinget, so that the Storting should also have a joint ownership and co-responsibility of the process and the result. Then it is with great disappointment that we read the government fraction's proposal for a decision in the matter – that this should be done by the government, and that it is the government that will define this and handle it without the participation of the Stortinge. That's what the Right believes weakens the case. It thinks the Right will weaken preparedness and how we will meet the challenges ahead. It'll be exciting to hear the Council's response, so I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1915	I agree with the proposers that targeted and reinforced efforts to improve information and cybersecurity are important. I am therefore pleased to inform Stortinget that only small details remain until a new information security strategy is ready. It provides guidance and lists the priorities underpinning the information security work of the authorities. The strategy covers the whole range of issues, from basic ICT security to the protection of the most societally critical information systems. Through the Information Security Strategy, the government wants the security status of Norway in terms of ICT to be influenced by: all actors are aware of the risk picture and ensure their systems and the network under those authorities actively facilitate the proper functioning of the national ICT infrastructure, through the proper organisation, adequate use of resources, good framework conditions and effective actions by private and public enterprises, building security and robustness into their information infrastructure in order to ensure their own activities and to protect their customers and users taking an independent initiative to protect their identity, privacy and their own financial values on the network. In order to achieve this, the government has set four overall objectives for the work on information security: enhanced coordination and common situational understanding robust and secure ICT infrastructure in society, strong ability to manage unwanted ICT events with a high level of competence and safety awareness. These overall objectives are equivalent. They must be followed up at the same time in order to achieve the state of security that the government wants in its vision of safety work. The government has seven strategic priorities in its work: ensuring the security of information in a more comprehensive and systematic way to strengthen ICT infrastructure to ensure a common approach to information security in central government to ensure the capacity of society to detect, alert and manage serious ICT events to ensure society’s ability to prevent, detect and investigate data crime to ensure continuous awareness and empowerment efforts to ensure high quality of national research and development in information and communication security. The strategy sets out some main areas of action that are based on these priorities. The new national information security strategy is presented by the Minister of Justice and me before Christmas. As a natural part of the work on the strategy, we have also assessed the division of responsibilities between departments related to preventive ICT security. The Government is committed to ensuring the optimal organisation of work on social security and preparedness. Therefore, the government has decided that the cooperative principle should be incorporated as a supporting element, in line with existing principles of responsibility, proximity and equality. The principle of cooperation requires that authority, activity or agency have a separate responsibility to ensure optimal interaction with relevant actors and activities in the prevention, preparedness and crisis management activities. Each department has overall responsibility for ensuring the safety of its sector’s ICT infrastructure. They shall ensure that the prevention of ICT security in the sector is satisfactory. It is the government’s assessment of the main conclusions of the 2006 responsibilities review that should be maintained. This concerns in particular the emphasis on sector responsibilities, the Ministry of Transport's responsibility for eco-networks and services, including the Internet, and the Ministry of Defence's responsibility for the military sector. At the same time, the government has decided to transfer the coordination responsibility for preventive ICT security from the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. By bringing together more of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the danger of duplication and unclear roles will be reduced. My ministry shall continue to be responsible for coordinating information security in central government. At the same time, we have strengthened and clarified my ministry's role in the field of ICT security in the state. The Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs will bring about a deepening of the division of responsibilities in a royal resolution. We are now putting in place a national strategy for information security, and we are about to finalise the follow-up action plan. I can therefore assure the representative from the Right that the government has both the will and the capacity to implement this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e1997	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2000	Yes, time is an important factor – the most important factor here. We have also discussed this earlier – as said last week – with the age aspect. Then we are involved in the continuing training of many managers and decision-makers who sit around both in the private sector, in the public sector, in central government, etc. When this strategy is presented in a short time, I am of some interest to hear: what measures are then proposed regarding the security and use of data tools, etc. by the representatives here at the house? Are there any leads in relation to the representatives here at Stortinget? I want to say that we're like open books, most of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2007	I agree with the representative that it is important that we have good ICT skills in general, and in particular ICT security. That is why I am now going to present a big message about a very short time when ICT competence and digital competence are becoming central. Then we have many educational institutions in Norway that are good at ICT and also good at ICT security. Among other things, the University of Gjøvik, mentioned in several big messages, is good at this. Then we don't have any ambitions to implement any of our own training programs for the representatives here in the house. I believe it must be a responsibility for every employer to ensure that their employees have the necessary skills. But I think it's important that more employers focus on it with competence, and that you make sure you understand it. Still, some of the biggest security threats in Norway are the use, which we, as individuals, have — with memory sticks and emails coming and opening up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2016	In the proposal for a representative, there is a proposal from the Progress Party and the Right that goes much further in assessing the use of data security in schools, in order to raise awareness of children and young people in terms of data use. This applies both to the criminal and to the piece that is within the area of justice, how a boat can protect itself and be in front of how a computer tool uses daily. Does the Council of State see that this is also important in order to have some kind of early effort on our children and young people, so that a person is dealing with this in the right way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2024	Knowledge of digital tools is one of the basic skills that primary school students need to undergo. It is important that you have good educational opportunities and knowledge in school to get to know it. So it turns out, unfortunately, that some of the challenges now are not necessarily the youngest. After all, we have the duty of service, which my department has been responsible for. Unfortunately, we are good adults who may be the least aware of using some digital tools and who are thus creating challenges. So it's an ongoing project to make sure that we all have the necessary competence. I believe that in businesses it is a management responsibility to make sure that both the necessary knowledge itself as a manager and also to ensure that projects are implemented in the organisation that build up safety. There are good projects, including: NorSIS had a project related to the safety month.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2033	Of course, it is good that the government is working on an information security strategy. We found the first track to start that work, in an article on October 2nd this year. What we also know is that for several years there has been ongoing work on updating the national information security guidelines mentioned in my article. My first question is: is there a context in the work that has so far been carried out on these guidelines, which is transferred to the work on strategy – i.e. that the strategy is based on the work of the guidelines? The second question is: What are the thoughts of the Council of State on the involvement of the Storting in anchoring the future strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2042	On the first question asked by the representative, Werp, the answer is yes. We're taking with us the experiences we've had. It is also the case that the government has not sat still. First of all, we've been prolonging the strategy that we had, there's been guidelines that have been valid throughout the period. Then we've taken action, we've strengthened NorCERT, we've established a cyberdefense -- a separate unit within the Defence that's an important element in this. ICT security is an important part of the comprehensive communication on social security that was presented. We are now presenting the new strategy, and we have allocated new money to this. One of the reasons we haven't presented the strategy yet is that we had this case, and I looked forward to getting a lot of good input from the Storting. Otherwise, I believe that it is the government's responsibility to present that strategy, and I am glad that it is on the agenda here today, and hope that many people will make a good contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2049	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2063	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2072	There is a cross-political desire to use new instruments to stop public benefits being transferred to the rest of the world in the event of abductions. Abducting a child shall have consequences. The fact that one of the parents takes the child out of the safe environment in the home country to an unsafe place abroad to punish the other parent in most cases is not something that should be financed by the public. The suspension of transfers is in line with the general sense of the law. An important perspective is that stoppages in transfers can accelerate repatriation and help to avoid future child abductions. It is an international objective to prevent child Abduction and to speed up the repatriation of abducted children. However, the Hague Convention in this area has not proved sufficient. Many States have not acceded to the Convention. The government is positive to continue the work of a stopped government benefit scheme on the assumption that there will be no breach of international conventions. It is important that such a system, which is highly desirable, incorporates several aspects. Proposals for a new scheme were sent at the summer 2009 consultation and it is proposed that this should be applied in several different situations. The first is when one of the parents abducts the child from Norway in violation of parental responsibility. The other is when one of the parents takes the child to Norway in breach of the parental responsibility rules of another country. The third is when a parent with a right of cohabitation educates the child from the child with whom he lives permanently, by changing the place of residence within Norway. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Integration has announced the need for further investigations, and I expect the Council of State to come back to it. There is also a need to adjust the proposal so that individual consideration can be given to and exemptions from detention where there is a risk that the measure puts the beneficiary and the child in a difficult and unsustainable situation. Several exceptions would reduce the effectiveness of the initial proposal and could reduce the effectiveness of the scheme. At the same time, it is essential to ensure legal certainty for individuals and children in particular. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV indicate that the intention of proposal No. 1 in this way, and that work is being done to implement such a scheme. Furthermore, the proposers propose that the government establish a Council to coordinate efforts between the relevant authorities for assistance to Norwegian parents who have had children. There is no need to establish a Council as proposed – this is because the already existing PCF enables Norwegian authorities to handle these complex issues in a good and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2095	First, thank you to the proposers for taking up this topic again. We can all imagine here in the Chamber the sorrow and despair of these matters, and with the corresponding need there is therefore to create predictability and security in an extremely difficult situation that, after all, is possible to create. We will be realistic in our belief in the extent to which it is actually possible to create full predictability and security in all areas – at least it does not believe it is right. But we agree with the proposers that we have to be offensive here and think about what opportunities we have after all. Then we will also take into account the challenges of this in the relationship between the laws of Norway and other countries. It is also a large and not simply an easy area to deal with, and it also involves more departments than the department set up to handle this proposal for a representative. The right is satisfied that an overall committee is in favour of stopping transfers of welfare benefits in the event of child abduction, as indicated in the case-law. We also believe that there is reason to criticise the government for the passage of time. We have been met with beautiful words in similar debates all the way back to 2005-2006, where the government has said that they should come back to the United Kingdom with a better appropriate and more offensive legislation. In any case, let us also take this debate with us as a step forward towards what hopefully becomes a regulation and a structure that creates something more secure in what is unfortunately felt as a deeply despairing and almost hopeless situation. We'll follow the case further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2115	Should proposals be addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2118	It reminds me that the undersigned is the first representative, so I will of course address the proposal on which the Right is with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2123	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2126	Let me take a brief look back: half a year ago, in June 2012, there were eleven abduction cases under investigation, trying to get the children back to Norway — eleven children. The year before, there were even more, then there were over 20 children. I must say it is gratifying that the Committee agrees to stop transfers of welfare benefits to child abductors, and I am also pleased that the Committee so unanimously states that it will help to speed up the return of young people to Norway and reduce the number of abductions. It's positive. But what worries me is the lack of action of the sitting government. Let me go back to September 5, 2012. Most of us remember the documentary about Geir that was shown on TV 2. Most of us were very affected by this documentary and thought it was touching. It was about Geir, who had fought for ten years to get his son back who had been abducted by Mother. The son was in Spain. Mother continued to receive welfare benefits, child allowances and child allowances from Norwegian authorities. Geir had to hire professional help, its own forces, to go down to Spain and kidnap its own child back to Norway. He had to assault his own child on the street in Spain, and they had put a detailed loop to prevent them from being stopped by the police on the way back. He did this for the legitimate purpose of bringing back his own child, to his own country, to his own family. For seven years, the current government has said to stop payments of welfare benefits to child abductors, to take the necessary steps. In 2009 they said that the law was now so and say clearly, it was just pressing the decision button to get it started. On the 5th of September, on the same day the documentary went on TV 2, the Workers' Party was on the TV 2 news and said that they promised to stop paying social security benefits to child abductors – full stop – and that it would be an important matter for them in the upcoming election campaign. If this matter is so important, why can we not support the proposals of the Progress Party? Why can't you press the stop button? Why can't you say that it's unacceptable to give money to kidnappers and so make crime more legitimate? I don't know where the Minister of the Child sits, whether she has her hands on or under the table or what she's doing in this case, but at least nothing happens. It is said to have new investigations, which will have to be carried out at new hearings, so more of what has been going on for seven years now – hearings and investigations. Those kids who have been abducted don't need any more hearings, they don't need any more investigations. They need politicians who are able to show the power of action to do the necessary steps to prevent more children from being kidnapped from this country. I have to say it is disappointing to see the inaction shown by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality in this matter. I also record that the Ministry of Justice is crystal clear: in 2010 they say that there is a legal base, even in relation to international law, to stop payments to child abductors, while the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is going to investigate this further. Then one is tempted to ask: Where is the conversation – and the competence – between the two departments? Is it really that way to understand that one department hasn't understood the blueberry of what you're talking about, while the other department has managed everything together? The professional basis would be to believe the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Law are able to explain. You should use the legal home that they've said applies, and have it implemented as soon as possible. I am disappointed that the bulk of the population cannot join in on the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2139	Would the representative make any suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2142	Yes, on behalf of the Progress Party, I take up the minority proposal from the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2148	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2151	It appears that there is a cross-political desire to use new means of preventing the abduction of children, and the proposal presented today is a good measure to prevent the abduction of children abroad. As others have pointed out, the issue has been raised on several occasions, not only in the Ministry of Justice, as mentioned earlier, but already in 2009 the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality signalled that a decision could be taken as early as the same year. So it is not on the will to put a stop to it, but as the previous speaker also pointed out here, it may seem that it lacks the ability. For those concerned, it is important that this measure is put in place. Children have no opportunity to stand on the barricades and fight for their rights. Therefore, we must take responsibility and secure the rights they deserve. It has been said that children have very good legal certainty in Norway, but in meeting adults they often lose, and we cannot have it that way. We in the Christian People's Party therefore see the need to halt the transfer of the welfare benefits covered by the proposal by child abductions, because it will help to increase legal certainty for children and prevent child abductions. It is not sustainable to postpone the regulatory changes once again pending further investigations. But no case is the same. It is important for the Christian People's Party always to base the best of the child on the assessment of what should apply. A rule on cessation of the transfer of benefits must therefore be considered in the individual case and the rule must therefore be opened up in order for derogations to be granted. With regard to the second proposal, from the Progress Party, we do not want to support it. The background is that cooperation forums already exist that enable Norwegian authorities to handle these complex issues in a good and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2160	Let me make this clear right away: we can't live with many children being abducted from and to Norway every year by one of the parents. I refer you to my letter to the Stortinget of 25 June this year, where I go through the proposal to put in place a stop to financial benefits and child support in the event of international childbirth. The proposal has been consulted and widely supported, but also identified the need for investigation and clarification as regards human rights and Norway's obligations under the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights. These issues have been assessed by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, and the proposal for a new regime needs to be adjusted so that the measure does not put children in a difficult and unsustainable situation. I guess the whole Storting agrees. It is an international objective to prevent child Abduction and to speed up the repatriation of abducted children. The international agreements in this area have not proved to be sufficient, and the government now wants to implement new instruments. The introduction of a scheme referred to above will prevent the person abducting a child from maintaining revenue from public authorities. Such a mechanism is in line with the general legal position and may speed up repatriation and contribute to the avoidance of future abductions. However, a system that allows for the retention of benefits and payments for the maintenance of life could deprive it of all or part of the economic basis of life. This could also affect the child as long as the abductor is concerned, and is therefore a strong tool. Furthermore, the detention benefits could be related to the acquired rights arising directly from the law, which may therefore be problematic to withhold. Despite this, I and the government want to introduce such a scheme. But because it has been necessary to investigate the relationship with human rights, as I said, it has taken time to put in place a system of detention of public benefits and child support in the event of childbirth. The Legal Service has therefore assessed the issues and concluded that the proposal is not necessarily incompatible with Norway’s obligations under the Conventions on Human Rights, provided that this is necessary to achieve a return, that return cannot be achieved by less invasive means, and that the beneficiary or the child is not placed in a situation that cannot be defended or accepted. The relationship with Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement has also been assessed and a detention scheme can be seen as part of the conditions for the benefits under national law which the State is then free to regulate. The Ministry of Labour and the Department I run, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, are now working on the design of a scheme for the detention of benefits and child contributions. The government will return to Stortinget as soon as possible in an appropriate manner once the work is completed, and this work is well under way. So my ambition is that we're going to get back to Stortinget with this. The government has already set up a National Child Abduction Cooperation Forum. The Forum shall be chaired by the Ministry of Justice and Security and shall consist of representatives from the departments, police and relevant bodies. The Forum does not deal with individual issues, but discusses difficult issues across different public bodies. The PCF enables the authorities to interact closely with the handling of child-removal issues. Therefore, there is no need to establish a new advice, as proposed by the Progress Party, in order to coordinate efforts between the relevant authorities. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the government has recently set up an external working group appointed by the Council of State on 7 November this year to carry out a fundamental and comprehensive review of the entire child-removal legislation, the handling of cases by Norwegian authorities, including international conventions on child-removal and whether the assistance provided is sufficiently effective. The Working Party shall report to the Ministry of Justice and Security by 31 December 2013. But let me just stress: it's not going to delay the work that the Storting now wants the government to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2176	On behalf of all those who have abducted their children, I have to say that I am both frustrated and accused of the fact that the Council of State once again says that she is working on the proposal and will come back «as quickly as possible in a suitable way» for the Storting. You've been saying that for seven years. That was also said in 2005, which was said in 2009, and it has been three years since 2009 and seven years since 2005. In addition, the Council of State says that stopping benefits can lead to a halt to the livelihood of some recipients. Is it more important to maintain the basis of life of the criminal by receiving social security/welfare schemes from the Norwegian State than to stop crime? Is the Council aware of the fact that welfare benefits are already being stopped for some, and is this contrary to international law, which could be perceived when you hear the Council of State? And the third question: why is it easier to stop benefits for fathers who have abducted children than benefits for mothers who have abducted children?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2183	If the representative stays standing, I'll explain what's in what I just said. My ambition is that the representative Eriksson may soon avoid being frustrated by the government's response to this question, because I want us to come back soon with proposals that take care of most of the representatives Eriksson is concerned about. But I have to stress that we also have obligations under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I believe that at least most people in this Chamber are concerned that children should not suffer direct distress as a result of what we do. In that case, it would be contrary to the obligations we have assumed, and one can also imagine a situation where children have been abducted here to Norway and where we remove any possibility of living for that child. That, I think, would create strong reactions. So we also need to take individual considerations; the issue of ambition is that we need to get a more effective regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2188	I allow myself to ask a follow-up question. When referring to the international commitments, the discharge from the Department of Justice's law department has also been quite clear. On what basis does the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion consider that doubts can be raised from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice's legal department? The next question is at what the Council of State says about her coming back quickly to Stortinget with this, and that the representative Eriksson can soon get the joy of stopping to be frustrated on behalf of the parents who have experienced that their child is being abducted. Then I allow myself to ask the simple question: When can I stop being frustrated? Are we talking about January, February – winter 2013? Are we talking about spring 2013? Are we talking early in the autumn of 2013 or are we talking closer to Christmas 2013? I don't expect a certain date, but what season can I expect frustration to slow down?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2193	I'm not 100 pst. I'm sure the representative Eriksson's inner emotional life, so I can't give a very concrete date for when emotions will change. But the ambition is that this is going to happen soon, and by soon I mean that it's a priority task, and that we're working too hard on it. Then I must stress that the matters that are affected in my post, and which are also affected in the letter from me this summer, should also be noted by the representative Eriksson. These are own considerations of the Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice. They therefore conclude that the proposal is not necessarily incompatible with the obligations of Norway under the Conventions on Human Rights, provided that this is necessary in order to obtain a return, returns cannot be carried out by less invasive means, and the beneficiary or the child is not placed in a situation that cannot be defended or accepted. So there's a number of assumptions here that complicate this, but believe me that we're going to get ahead of work, and that this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2200	No more lines have been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2203	Yes, Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2208	Thank you for your help!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2212	It's just fun!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2217	I did not know whether the Council of State answered two of the questions raised by the representative Eriksson. Firstly, is the Council of State aware of the different ways in which performance stops are taking place today, and is it in the event of violation of international conventions – are the situations in which children are suffering? And the second question I felt that we didn't get the answer to: Why is it in some contexts easier to stop performances where father is abductor, and is the council aware that in cases where father is abductor, you stop the performances today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2224	Today, some benefits are stopped, for example: can be stopped after a certain period of six months. I think that's quite right, but what you can't do is stop absolutely all benefits, including the possibility of a child's living, without having made a concrete assessment of the consequences it will have for this child. This could be contrary to the Children's Convention. However, the question of taking child welfare only, for example. will not conflict with the Children’s Convention as it has been assessed. What I have particularly reacted to over a long period of time is the question of child support. I think most people react strongly to that, because not only do you lose the opportunity to be with your own child, but you have to pay in addition. That's right for the child, but it looks like you're paying to the person who kidnapped the child. This clearly runs counter to the general view of justice. I see, however, that we also have to go further than that, but we have to take individual relationships into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2231	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2236	This is not really about the frustration of the representative Eriksson or the frustration of the representative Sandberg. It's about children's legal certainty. And it is largely about conventions that Norway has ratified, which are to take account of the child, but which are broken every day by Norway. I note that the Minister for Children and Family now has several rounds to draw this out in time, so that more and more children suffer from Norway breaking international conventions that we are obliged to comply with. For now, more attention should be paid to living with the child-breeder than to the child's safety and rights of association with their biological parents. I find it strange that you have to have new rounds when you are so ready to stop the child's fear after six months is unproblematic – it's simply easy to stop. There is no doubt that there is an individual nation's right. Within all of your international obligations, it is entirely unproblematic to do so. But when it comes to children’s contributions, where each individual person – whether it is a mother or a father – pays the contribution, it is scary. So you've been doing it for seven years to figure out if you can do it. My claim is that this possibility of course lies within the framework and freedom of action of each nation within these international commitments. Otherwise, I really need to be allowed to ask questions by running and investigating for seven years and having hearings with rounds to find the answer to which room of action you have. It must be a failure in competence, which I doubt. I think it's a failure in terms of coordination and the agenda you have from the different parties that are in today's government. So now you're going to have a working group to work for over one year, we're going to have new hearings, and now, by the day – I was updated before the weekend – there's 50 existing cases where children are abducted from Norway and lose the right to get together with one of their parents. That this government is letting it float and go is incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2249	I really want to ask for – and I do not do that on behalf of my sea or government, but on behalf of those who are in the difficult situation that they do not have children with them, or the children who are not allowed to be with their other partner – not to make it so that we are now going to work a new year before we might come back with something. What the representative Sandberg now said from this pulpit is wrong. We're going to work fast on this, get it fast for Stortinget. Nor do we think it is problematic now to stop children's contributions. No, it is not problematic to freeze them, so you can get this money once you have returned. I mean, it's completely curative to do that, and we're going to do that too. What's more difficult is if you stop absolutely all benefits, so that a child loses any chance of getting along, because they depend on the caregiver who then loses all the benefits. Then we have to make an individual assessment. We have those obligations after the Children's Convention. I think it's easier to see it for us in a situation where there's a child abducted to Norway and where there's the performance here in our country being stopped. So let's think about this. also, in addition to the fact that the child does not receive benefits from the country from which it was originally born, the possibility of living stops and that the child must live in deep poverty given that the parent does not return the child to the parent who was to be with it. Then I think the reactions would be pretty strong, because you would see the consequences for the child. That exercise I think it might be worth doing. But I don't want anyone to leave here now after this debate and think that the will is not there to do anything about this, and that the will is not there to do it quickly. Because it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2260	This government establishes a working group to give feedback on 31 December 2013. It's over a year ahead of time. The second thing I would like to point out is that this government will not join the proposal that is on the table because we need new investigations, new hearings, because we need to put forward a proposal that reduces the effectiveness of original proposals, says the Council of State. A proposal should be made to reduce the effectiveness of original proposals, and the proposal now on the table does not agree. A proposal will be made to take individual considerations into account. Does this mean that someone can abduct children and still demand a child’s contribution from one’s parents? It's about freezing payments and contributions to kidnappers, and you can do that, says the council here now. There's no problem, you can do it tomorrow. But you don't. You could have done it seven years ago. But you haven't. Now the council says, "No, it's no problem to freeze the payment of child contributions to child abductors." Then why don't you do that? In addition, this case concerns the rights of children. When we record that Norway is probably the only country in the world that accepts this practice, it is quite strange that we are going to operate for seven-eight-nine years and determine whether we can do this within the space of action for international commitments. That is why I do not believe in – but in that case I will be extremely positively surprised – that in January we will receive a bill from this government that supports the proposal that is on the table as of today. For Norway, it cannot be known that every day it is the Norwegian child who is being robbed of his country and of the parent who has parental responsibility and responsibility for care. And then one in retrospect has to exercise power and give children traumatic experiences by sending out gingerl groups to bring these children back to their homes, to which we have witnessed, and which evolve to a greater and greater extent. It's become a profession, in fact, where parents in despair engage professional people to kidnap their children's homes again. I repeat: we cannot be aware of this. And so we've been doing this for seven years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2275	Next speaker is State Council No Marte Thorkildsen, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2278	President, I'm not going to use all that speaking time. I just want to clarify, since the representative Sandberg has some problems in understanding what I'm actually saying, that the external working group that's now set up, which is mentioned on the Justice Department's website, has nothing to do with the very question we're discussing here relating to whether we're going to stop all public transfers, including social security benefits, to child abductors. We are doing this well, regardless of the work being done in the external working group – just so it's quite clear. The work on what I understand is that Stortinget is most concerned about, namely the possibility of getting more tools to both prevent childbirth and get more children back to Norway, we are doing well. So my ambition is that we'll be right back with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2285	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 10 and 11 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2313	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2322	The Committee has examined two key proposals in the field of forest policy, namely Document 8:106 S for 2011-2012 and Document 8:107 S for 2011-2012 of the Progress Party, on the concession requirement for forest properties and the obligation to live in forest properties, respectively. Property regulation is an important theme of forest policy, and especially of the activities related to the ownership and management of forests. I would like to stress that good forestry policy is good climate policy, good business policy and good environmental policy. This was also agreed by an overall committee when dealing with the agricultural notification. In the course of the discussion of the agricultural notification, the Committee also agreed that an appropriate infrastructure was essential for the role of the forest sector in the pursuit of competitive business activities and that, therefore, it wanted to facilitate increased harvesting. The availability and willingness to harvest are a critical factor for the forest industry and the wood processing industry in Norway. For this reason, the Agriculture Communication also agreed to stimulate cooperation on operations in order to compensate for the challenges posed by the use and property structure of Norwegian forest properties. To underline this, it is only possible to look at the situation in Norwegian woodworking and woodworking industries. We've seen help packages over the budgets. We've seen constant crises in individual companies. Economical and active forestry is at the heart of such a situation, and infrastructure measures and measures that can increase the activity of forest owners become an important instrument. However, I note that the celebrations of this in the Agriculture Communication prove to be precisely that – that is, celebrations – when one is now given the opportunity to decide on concrete proposals here in the Stortinget. At least it applies to the governmental parties. Both the proposal to facilitate the lifting of concession requirements and the lifting of the requirement of residence for forest property is a concrete act, concrete proposals that stem directly from the wording of the agricultural notification and are necessary for the purpose of profitability and logging in Norwegian forestry. The structure of ownership in Norwegian forestry is old-fashioned — prehistoric — and all surveys and reports from professionals show that if you want to increase the yield, profitability and access to industry, the structure of use is crucial to change. Both of these proposals will contribute in this way. It is also important that the structure of use in Norway is varied and adapted to the agricultural activity. In today's situation, it is primarily that more major properties are also needed that can provide efficient, profitable operations and maintain skills and knowledge. I expect the majority to explain their own views, so I'm not going to go into it any further, except to say that I welcome a notified practice in the sharing of agricultural properties. Of course, I'm also glad that the majority in their comments recognize that if it's easier to divide, it can lead to more people wanting to sell forests in areas where it's hard to buy such areas. Yes – but this is a detour: the two proposals we are dealing with, on the lifting of the concession requirement and the obligation to live, will lead to exactly the same thing, but in a more direct and eaten way. In fact, I believe that there is an urgent need for Norwegian forestry activities and for those who are dependent on Norwegian activities, for example. for the processing of wood. It would be a defeat if we kept the woodworking industry up with aid packages and measures of various kinds, but perhaps we are dealing with the most important thing, namely to facilitate increased logging because access to work is a critical factor for industry. That is why we must try to change the basis of the structural measures which are now undoubtedly necessary, and which I repeat and underline, which in fact a joint committee as late as we have agreed. The original proposal by the proposers indicated that something should be done about this by the end of 2012. It is urgent, that is correct, but the proposal has nevertheless been changed to ‘as soon as possible’, but not in order to indulge in this. I will take up the suggestions that the minority are making in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2343	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2346	Thanks to the rapporteur for a thorough review of these two issues that are being discussed. It's nice to be able to take them together in the debate here today. I do not agree with the black paint of the farmer and the status of the farm forest owner in Norway for which he makes himself a spokesman. And to put it right away, the government parties don't agree with any of the proposals. Not to understand that the concession law and its provisions have been stoned. This law should also be amended over time and circumstances. I remind you that the concession law was amended as late as 2009, where, among other things: was to simplify and clarify the rules on living and working conditions. The land limits were then adjusted and coordinated with other legislation. The scope of the concession law was substantially continued. It is easy to agree with the proposers that it must be right – and a good objective – to lay down that a landowner should have effective and legal right to dispose of his property. There's no disagreement about that. And the landowner must have the opportunity to strengthen his nutrient base based on his own resources. I also noticed Mr. Norskog's contribution to the hearing on the budget. They now point out, as they have done before, that the ownership structure of forest owners organised in the Forest Society is a significant problem or challenge. We never hear that the Forest Geyser Association, which organizes virtually all forest owners, pronounces itself that way, naturally enough. The vast majority of forest owners in the country are foresters. I agree that the structure of property is, in fact, a challenge in farmland use. I myself have a small farm with a forest dough, and I know something about how demanding it can be to get appropriate neighbourly cooperation to optimise the operation. Nevertheless, it is in my view the cooperation track that should be pursued in order to get more activity in the forest. But also land change is a very topical measure. I hope that the modernisation of the law on land change with which it is now working in the government, and the fact that we will probably open up later this evening so that more institutions can train land change candidates, will give the land change institute a boost and make it more accessible and attractive. That in itself is all possible reason to give the government credit for. I also point out that the government now, after the processing of the agricultural and food reports, adds that it should be easier to divide from tuna, then to sell the area as additional soil and forest to a neighbor. However, we must not underestimate the need to emphasise that the concession obligation is an important instrument to ensure that the acquirers of land and forest property are fit to operate the property and that the acquisition involves an operationally sound solution. In my view, that is an important purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2363	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a good job in these two matters. Document 8:107 S for 2011–2012, on the lifting of the requirement to reside in forest properties, and Document 8:106 S for 2011–2012, on the lifting of the concession requirement for forest properties, are both a contribution from the Progress Party to enable forest owners to develop a healthier property structure, as well as to facilitate ownership with larger areas and not least a more active and efficient management. The compulsory residence is, as everyone knows, the Progress Party against. In the case of a dwelling, it is based on the law of 28 November 2003 No. 98 where it says that if the property consists of more than x the number of Decar productive forest ‘is the freedom of concession provided for in point (b) of the first subparagraph. 1 and 2 on condition that the transferee settles on the property within one year and is himself resident for at least five years`. The last concession law was pending, in 2009, where today’s area requirement of 500 dean came. In both of these cases, there is a two-part division where the government parties stand together on the existing, and the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party stand together for change for the better. For the Progress Party, it is of the utmost importance that the individual owner and operator, irrespective of where and what type of industry it may be, can determine as far as possible how it should be operated. The introduction by the public of the minimum detail of how the industry is to operate provides little opportunity for positive developments to meet the challenges, inter alia. the forest industry is facing. Norwegian forest industry operates in an international timber and product market. Timber and timber products are sold across borders, and the sellers are the ones that offer the best in terms of price and quality. This means that the Norwegian market is also characterised by international trends and economic trends. As a resident of a large forest state, Hedmark, I see from year to year how the logging of the forest varies. A year may be a major harvest, while in another year it may be significantly smaller. This is also the case in the other forest counties we have in Norway. As regards the size of harvesting and the interest in mowing a lot, this is also reflected in the tax rules. While a few years ago there was a good capital tax on forests, today there is usual taxation. This makes many smaller forest owners only moan when they need money, and not always when the forest needs care and when it is most profitable overall. In 2010, Norway had 118,629 forest properties. Of these, 26 887 were covered by the obligation of dwelling, i.e. forest properties over 500 targets. When you know at the same time that it is only – and I repeat only – approx. 300 forest properties corresponding to one annual work or more must be softened in this legislation. To demand that you invest – let's say – 2.5-3 million. kr in a new house, plus other costs, to take over a forest property of 500 goals or more, tells us that this law is a little smooth. When it is also known that relatively many forest owners have forest land several places in a municipality, and also often in several municipalities, the requirement for settlement is an impossibility for many. It is also necessary to ask whether this requirement should benefit district housing or industry. The propulsion party does not want the industry to be burdened in this way. The next question is, how much does a 500-decker forest property yield in net income? When you know that forests have to grow on average 80 years before they are harvested, it goes without saying that many have to be patient. When you also know that the masculinity of pine tree is now paid with an average of 225 kroner per m3, and the pine tree with an average of 380 kroner per m3, the patience is paid very poorly, because from this price it has to be paid for, for example. cutting, driving and other expenditure. Norway has long and good traditions of forestry, its management and the process from raw materials to finished goods. This product was only planks and tables for a long time, but eventually other products have also been successful. But at the same time we see that the Norwegian paper industry is struggling, and this in turn affects the forest owners' ability to get paid for mass labor. Norway is growing again, and it may once again affect, for example: our tourist industry. In order to survive the forest industry, the concession requirement and the obligation to live must be lifted and the industry must be recognised as having to regain freedom. Only then can we be competitive with our competitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2400	The forest is an important industry that provides a coherent value chain from forest to finished product. Forestry and forestry are important for employment and economic development in large parts of the country. The forest also has many other values. The forest and forest floor are important for the absorption and storage of carbon dioxide. That is why he is also important for the climate. And last, but not least, the forest is important for the natural decay and the biological deficiency. A lot of Red Lists have a hold on our woods. The development of sustainable forestry is important for both forestry, climate and natural diversity. There are large social values attached to the forest, both economic and environmental. Therefore, it is important to have laws and regulations that pass these renewable values on to future generations. The concession obligation is an important tool to ensure that those who take over forest property are willing to run it. The law shall ensure good operational solutions and shall preserve resource management and cultural landscapes. The lifting of the concession obligation will mean that the public cannot intervene in the translation of forests, and it may weaken important societal considerations. The proposers are concerned that we need to have an appropriate size of use in forestry. That's an important point. But the concession requirement doesn't have to prevent it. A joint committee is busy stimulating more cooperation on forest operations. Furthermore, the government of the agricultural message has provided for a review of the price control guidelines under the forest translation law. The Agriculture Communication also proposes to change practices in relation to the sharing of agricultural property. This can make it easier to translate forests and contribute to more appropriate ownership structures. SV believes this is a balanced solution where a consideration is given to both the need to operate commercially and to take care of socially important values.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2419	Economical and active forestry is a vital prerequisite for maintaining and further developing a comprehensive wood-based industry in Norway. Norwegian wood processing and Norwegian wood industry are currently in a challenging situation. We in the Centre Party are therefore concerned about investing in infrastructure and measures that can increase the activity of forest owners, and we are concerned about developments for the wood industry. The ownership laws of forestry and agriculture shall facilitate economic development, activity and future in Building Norway. Housing is a key instrument of rural and agricultural policy and contributes to maintaining rural settlements. The winding-up of the housing obligation will result in capital investors buying up farm and other district properties, and much of the year will be destroyed by rural communities. The centre party and the government are implementing a regional policy powerhouse to provide housing and increased value creation throughout the country. In a country with scattered settlements and large distances, we must have the will to pursue offensive policies in which we take political action beyond market governance. And it works. In 2011, for example: 311 municipalities here in the country population growth. There are 118 more municipalities in growth than in 2006, when the Centre Party and the Red-Greens started this turnaround operation. Forest and agricultural property forms the backbone of many rural communities and is the starting point for local value creation and growth. Farming is also attractive for many who want to settle in rural areas. Without housing obligations, forest and agricultural property will soon become attractive leisure properties for capital-intensive investors. Housing is an important tool to ensure that people live in the countryside. The issue of compulsory residence and compulsory concession is an example of the dividing lines that are so clear in Norwegian agricultural and district policies. The right-hand side – like representatives of the financial elite – is more concerned with giving rich opportunities to own more recreational properties in District Norway than ensuring housing and industrial activity in the districts. We in the Center Party see property law as a prerequisite for a varied property structure and thus ownership as an opportunity for the many, not a right for the few. The Property Act balances Norwegian tradition, where it follows obligations by owning an agricultural property – obligations to deal with important societal issues related to food production, conservation of land and settlement throughout the country, and a property right that provides a predictable framework for the harvesting of land and natural resources, and thus income and life base. The property laws are closely linked to the development of Norwegian society. I would like to remind you that Norway has a different property structure than many other countries, where property has been divided into few hands and has been subject to more speculation and free movement. The units of use are relatively small and there are many properties and many owners. It is precisely this that underlies the pattern of residence we have in our country. When the concession law was amended in 2009, the area limit for which the personal housing obligation applies to built-up forest properties was greatly adjusted. The limit was moved from 100 to 500 dekars, while the rules on accommodation and duty were simplified and clarified at the same time. So now, in addition, the government will make it easier to share property and review the guidelines for price control under the law on forest marketing. We in the Center Party believe that these changes together take care of those who want to facilitate ownership of larger areas and more active management. The Central Party considers that today’s legislation is well suited to meet the challenges facing agriculture and district Norway in the short and long term, in particular following the amendments made to the 2009 concession law. The legislation contains good and dynamic instruments for long-term management of ownership and operation of agricultural property, in order to ensure sustainable use and socially sound production based on both local and national assumptions and objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2442	In these matters I will only have a brief article. The reason why I take the floor in the matter of lifting the concession requirement for forest properties is that I want to give an explanation of vote. In an incubation, the Christian People's Party has come with both comments and in the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party to lift the concession requirement for forest property. The Christian People's Party shall vote against this. We agree that concrete measures are needed for increased activity in Norwegian forestry, but we believe, like the government fraction, that the land limits for the concession and the rules on housing and operating obligations should be fixed. We therefore support the recommendation of the majority. There is also a need for an explanation of vote in the case of the lifting of the obligation to reside in forest properties. In another case, the Christian People's Party has come with both in comments and in the proposal of the Right Party and the Advance Party to abolish the requirement of residence for forest properties as soon as possible. The concession law was amended in 2009, when we were readjusted so that the obligation to live only occurs at 500 decas of productive forest. In the past, this was 100 deacons. In the communication on food and agriculture, it is said that it is also easier to share property. These are decisions and measures involving positive changes to forestry. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the government fraction not to approve of lifting the requirement to live in forest properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2455	The last post, from the Christian People's Party, made me think of a quote from Abraham Lincoln. He had to change his point of view in one case, and then he said: I don't give much to a man who is not wiser today than he was yesterday. So I was happy when I heard the contributions of the Christian People's Party. It was clear that you had not quite taken part in the adjustment, but it is very good that we are on the same layer here and share the same position. I would like to give some consideration to the two Document 8 proposals that we are now considering. As I read the proposers, there are two main purposes you want to achieve by removing the concession requirement and removing the dwelling obligation. One is that a person wants to get bigger forest properties, and that this is an instrument for increasing logging – that it is the long-term objective. We in the government do not support the proposals. My predecessor, Lars Peder Breck, has explained well in two letters of reply. Speakers from the government parties have also explained this well in the debate until now. So, in addition to having been a discussion about property structure, it has become a discussion about forest policy in general. I want to come up with some considerations in the extension of what the case rapporteur, Svein Flätten, said. I believe that one of the most important things for increased logging of Norwegian forests is one of the things we have done in connection with the policy that this government has pursued. We have had a very predictable tax policy. One of the main challenges in the period 2001–2005 was to change the tax regime for Norwegian forestry several times. Among other things, the average equation changed several times in one year, thanks to the government making budgetary settlements with the Progress Party once and with the Workers' Party next time. Forestry needs predictability and long-termity, and it has been provided by the government in fiscal policy. Then, at first, we made an approach – which was very effective and very important – with the improvement of the Forest Fund scheme, which is one of the most effective tax measures we can have for long-term value creation in forestry. In addition, we have had a completely different investment in transportation, which also means a lot to the crop. Only Åsta Bru – which I was involved in opening up the construction of – and the Norwegian Forest Association will save forestry in the Østerdalen for 2.5 million. kr annually. It shows how much transportation means. So back to the structure of forestry. I also see part of the challenges that both the Progress Party and the Right have addressed in the debate, that there are some smaller forest properties that are not used effectively and in a good enough way. But I think they're kind of black-painting a little bit in relation to reality. Some of the success stories, e.g. in the home state of Per Roar Bredvold, is about a strong forestry cooperative that has jointly found very good solutions and efficient logging. Looking at the impacts in Hedmark, for example, where there are also many small forest estates, it can be seen that forestry cooperatives have a lot of the professionalism that the fleet and the representative of Bredvold demand, and are just able to have good forestry plans and implement good forestry plans, so that they can use the resources that the forest assets have. In terms of structure, we're now doing some very big grips. We're doing the largest sale of public forest in the time. 500000 covers are now to be sold. In the autumn, 22 properties of 50,000 beds are sold. So we're doing something in practice, which makes forest owners secure and get the resource base improved on their property. Until 2017, we will have two such large sales this year. The big sale we are now making is an enormous opportunity for better arrondance in Norwegian forestry. We have not had greater government sales since the Danish era. As others have said, we are also going to liberalize property policy by no longer wanting to have a ban on sharing. But we want sharing rules and through it also signal that we believe it is positive that there is sales, both of cultivated land to those who rent it, so that those who run it should be able to own it, and of forest sales to those who want it, so that others who want to invest more in forestry can own it. In addition, we have said – and sent out notice of – that the lower limit for the price assessment of agricultural property should increase from 1.5 to 2.5 million. kr. So we've done some legal steps that have liberalized property policy, and that will stimulate more real estate. The biggest catch we do every year now is the huge sale in Statskog, which is the arrondering sale of public forests since the Danish era. So we're going in that direction. So it's important what both Fleet and Bredvold say, that these are challenges, but I think you're too black paint too much. We have a cooperative and other forestry measures that have compensated for some of the challenges of a small property structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2478	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2482	I hear that the state council is now boasting of the state's largest sale of forest. That's right. But we also have to remember that the state made the biggest purchase of forest a short time ago. So the state is increasing its amount of forest. Otherwise, I register that the Council of State was visiting – yesterday, I think it was – in Elverum in Hedmark. That's nice. He looked at the Christmas tree production, and he thinks this is good. It's the Council of State and I agree. But this is not a new industry. Already 30 years ago – or perhaps more – I hopped and sold my first Christmas trees, and I was not the first to do so either. So this is no new business. We are buying more and more Christmas trees from abroad, including Denmark. I think that is quite worrying. But to the concrete question, does the Council of State really believe that a forest property – pure forest property – of 500 targets requires housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2491	The property also follows obligations, it knows both Per Roar Bredvold and I. I'll start with the beginning of the question, about the sale of forest. Why did we buy Borregaard Forester? Well, we wanted to secure national ownership of that property. I don't remember the whole number, but I think it was a little over 1 million dekar. We wanted to secure national ownership of that property, so that it, for example, should not come to the hands of a non-resident insurance company. We wanted this property to be nationally secured. It could provide future opportunities for future politicians, considering how they wanted to manage that property. So it was point 1: secure national ownership. Point 2: It was to strengthen local ownership – and through it we started with the arrondissement sale we have made, with many small properties all around Norway, which have made many people able to buy. With regard to the Borregaard forests, there was such a large sale that there were only a few players who had the opportunity to buy – and most likely there had been foreign actors. We wanted to secure this nationally – and now we are securing it locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2500	I record that the Council of State did not answer my question. I repeat the question – I hope the Council of State answers: Does the Council of State really believe that a forest property of 500 targets requires permanent residence?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2505	The answer is, when there is an all-year residence on the property, and it is 500 dekar, we believe that it is right that there should be a dwelling on the property.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2510	The Council of State is very little concerned with what I was very much involved in my speech, namely the conditions for the woodworking industry, which has been serious lately. I was not just talking about getting bigger forest properties in my post. I want to ask the Council of State in view of his response to the Committee – or rather his predecessor's response to the Committee: Is it more important for the Council of State with public intervention in relation to the owners than it is to use the possibilities to facilitate increased harvesting – and then increased access to the woodworking industry, which we know is absolutely critical and necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2517	The aim of forest policy is, of course, to have a smooth and good harvest, which also means that one has a woodworking industry and profitability throughout the whole value chain. As I said in my post: I believe that some of the most important things for the forest industry and the wood processing industry are stability in the framework conditions. Some of the worst that can happen is what happened between 2001 and 2005, when tax legislation was amended several times. It creates instability, and it doesn't create even logging. Therefore, the scheme is for example: the average equation is very lukewarm, very wise and adapted to the challenges of forestry. As far as property policy is concerned, it is important – also for the representative from the Right – to note that we have liberalised property policy more while we have ruled and had power than when you had power. Then – in a concessional treatment – you could make a price of NOK 750000. Now it's raised to 2.5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2526	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2529	This is not a new discussion; it is an ancient discussion about the view of private property rights and associated obligations. And it's not about forest properties in particular, it's about forest properties that are built, forest properties that are over 500 dekar – it's important to clarify. The representative of the Progress Party has obviously not come up with the idea that a forest property must be built in order to require accommodation. What is the view of the Centre Party is that we are here to discuss the view of forestry and forestry. The centre party is the foresters' party, i.e. those who use forests, private owners – private ownership – who use forests. We are the party of the seafaring traders, for the many who lay the groundwork for the business, and the many who own the forest. So we get a decentralised property structure and distribution of power. It is incredibly important in democracy that ownership is distributed. What the Right and Advance Party sees henimot is property structures in southern Europe and in Sweden, where the few own, and where there are companies and companies that own land – a tradition that historically and internationally has proven to have far greater weaknesses than our private property rights and associated obligations of the many. I want to underline this very, very strongly. What is central to our ownership profile is that we in Norway have always had private property rights and associated obligations, and then we have to have laws that guarantee it. The answer to that is called the concession law. The concession law allows prices to be charged, and you can demand that the personal owner live on the property when it is a built-up property – a great tradition. Now it is produced as if the property structure is the problem in Norwegian timber processing and forestry today. I would like to ask the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party to be very realistic. The problem in Norwegian forestry today is not the many property owners who do not cut enough because prices are miserable. No, the problem is on the industrial side, it's the provision and profitability on the market – that's what you need to focus on. It is strong to experience that once again one should focus on the property structure, instead of focusing on what is now the big challenge, namely the profitability of our woodworking industry. Here we are going to discuss the farmland use, while the last year three factories have been closed. The timber is exported to the rest of the world, and the Right Party and the Advance Party will not go in with any means to make it possible to obtain profitability on the wood processing side. It is a great shame that we have such a discussion, when the challenges lie on the market – not on ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2542	If it is a question of using instruments for Norwegian woodworking, which do not pay off, I would just like to remind the representative Lundtegen that he and his colleagues at the Red-Greens have had a majority in this Chamber for almost eight years, and have had the full opportunity to adopt all the measures they might want, regardless of what the Right Party, the Advance Party and other parties may think. Actually, I took the word to respond mildly to what was presented as a black paint in my post. I can't say that we've blackpainted some of the world's things. I took the starting point – for those who wanted to listen to it – in the Agriculture Communication, where the Committee agreed that infrastructure and property regulation could have a bearing on forestry, on access to work and through it on woodworking. That's what I've been trying to follow up on in my post. There's no reason for anxiety-stricken behavior or to dramatize this in any way. It is not that you want large forest estates in southern Europe or where it may be – this is, of course, to promote ghosts on a bright day. I would like to comment on one more thing: I am very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture thinks taxes are extremely important in the value chain that agriculture represents. In other debates on agriculture and agriculture, I have recently heard that the Right is talking too much about taxes on agriculture. That's why I'm very happy -- I'm just quoting from memory, so I'm not going to use quotes on it -- that it's central to the long-term value creation of agriculture. Now we're really talking about forestry, but I assume it's also true in agriculture. Let's take that with us. And then I have to say that the statements of the two representatives of the Central Party who have spoken, crack – Irene Lange Nordahl, who believes it was a demanding situation for the processing of wood, and Per Olaf Lundtigen, who says the same, but who says that it can be solved through measures that the Right and Advance Party are actually opposed. I like to listen to these measures, but it is quite possible to get them through without our help.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2553	Initially, I did not intend to take the floor in this matter, but it is clear that when the Centerpartiet Lundtigen uses the speaker's chair for a very calm, balanced introduction to his post, then to go over it more – I shouldn't say – outstanding, but he at least raises himself to the high altitudes, I got a certain need to comment on the post. The representative from Lundtegen mentioned that it was the market that was the problem, not the operation of Norwegian forestry or anything else. Then the undersigned finds reason, as the fleet representative did, to note that this government has now been in office for more than seven years – over seven years. The representative Lundtigen complained that over the past few years, three three processing companies have had to shut down their business – yes, in the same period as the Lundtigen Party has been in power. What these issues are about is whether to change conditions — better conditions — so that you can see these things in context and use the forest more. It's going to cancel the concession requirement, it's going on, so maybe you can merge some of these properties without having to be bound by a dwelling obligation on each property. I have to say that I look forward to hearing what the government has done in connection with the market that has failed for the representative Lundtigen. There must obviously be a juicy critic Lundtägen here addressing his own, because, as he says in his post, it's the market we have to do something about – begrudge to the government that it hasn't done anything in this case. He criticises that three three processing companies have failed as a result of market failures. Yes, in many industries a market failure is regularly introduced, which means that you have to change, and you get changed. But the post to Lundtigen I'm a little in doubt about: what was it really Lundtigen was after? Was it to criticize his own government for lack of action? As those sitting in the hall heard the post, that's exactly what he did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2562	The background to the two proposals of the Progress Party was initially the woodworking industry and its need for timber and the activity that was too low in Norwegian forests. That was the focus. I said, and what I'm saying now, is that there's the wrong focus in today's situation. In the current situation, the main challenge in Norwegian forestry and woodworking is not access to timber, the problem is the market situation and market developments. In that area, the Norwegian woodworking industry is in a situation where one loses markets and where foreign competitiveness is weakened every day. There is a need to accept the fact and the reality that lies in it, and so when it is done, discuss what is necessary public instruments, in cooperation with private owners, to convert our woodworking industry into a competitive business in the future. That's the big challenge. The government has sailed a great responsibility, but it also has this hall. If this room had had a discussion about these issues in a way that formed a broad basis for the need to do something new, it would have been easier for a government to do something about it. That was my main concern in what I said. If you're going to discuss what's going on in ownership and the things that are coming to you, it's obvious that the property structure is essential. My claim is that today's property structure has greater benefits than disadvantages. One of the major benefits of today's property structure is that biodiversity is better protected by many owners and users than by fewer, because the many make different decisions and thus preserve forests in a somewhat different way, so that diversity is better ensured. The consequences of today's property structure are an important discussion. The balance we have found is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, good when, at the same time, the government wishes to change the division of the soil law, so that one can disaggregate forests to other economically active forest users. Then one has a greater dynamic in the change of property structure to ensure that several of the assets can be allocated additional forest if one wants to buy it. But back to the main focus: the main focus is the woodworking industry – that's where we have a job to do. I am alarmed that the Progress Party and the Right do not focus on new instruments, as I have stated from this pulpit many, many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2574	The debate may get a little fresher at the end, but it really started quite fresh too, I think, with the representative Haugen's characteristics of the rapporteur's proposals. When the representative Fleet arrives at the pulpit, he says that it may be somewhat ‘anxious’ to use the word ‘black paint’ about his introduction to forestry property and property. I think that black paint is actually a pretty appropriate way to define it. When the rapporteur uses the words ‘old-fashioned’ and ‘prehistoric’ about the usage structure and the property structure that apply to Norwegian forestry, I have never heard a Right-Man blackpaint the private ownership then to the degrees in relation to this. That being said, it is quite obvious that many small forest parcels can be a challenge. But it's solved by the fact that most forest owners, which are many, small and diverse, operate in a larger whole under forest owners' associations and within the cooperative model. The amazing thing about both Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian forestry is that we are able to maintain housing, the quality of the bio diversity, which the representative Lundtigen was inside, etc., by sharing the land and properties among many, but dealing with it wisely through good cooperative models. It's a force. That's very good. Most forest owners today solve the challenges with the many small cadastral parcels through strong, good forest owners' associations and forest owners' cooperatives. But if you remove the obligation to live – if you remove the requirement to live where there are properties – and if you also remove the concession requirements, there is no doubt that you make a significant change. There will be a significant change in Norwegian forestry conditions. Something will probably be – let's say – corporate, industrial, yes, but very much will get a completely different focus, I think, than forestry. It will place itself under the concept of leisure properties, unless you focus on forestry, etc., if you do it automatically. There is nothing wrong with being able to market forests today within the senses of government, by transferring a forest property to another active forester just to get appropriate arrangements around it. We will actually motivate – I stress it – and not preserve it. As far as the woodworking industry is concerned, the challenges are obvious. What Lundtigen points to is a market that's gone. We've had a woodworking industry in Norway that's historically based on two things, and that's paper and sawmilling.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2585	I will follow up on the posts of the representative Fleet. There is a lot I agree with the article. I'm going to say something about what I think is absolutely fundamental to Norwegian agriculture. I repeat, even though the representative Fleet was a little surprised at that, that I believe that one of the most important instruments for Norwegian forestry is tax policy. That's point one. Paragraph 2: I believe that transport policy is very important. One of the most important things about fiscal policy, as I said in my speech, is stability. Some of the worst for forestry are many changes in the short term, for forestry is a long-term industry. There has therefore been a great advantage to a majority government – the provisions we have taken, we have stood by, and it has been stable over time. In the period 2001-2005 it was the opposite of stability. Forest owners then made choices after changing the tax rules, which were lost when they again changed the tax rules. It was extremely expensive and not predictable for forestry. I also believe that it is great for Norwegian agriculture that we have a little over 26 000 properties of more than 500 dean. There are many who are involved in Norwegian forestry, and there is a strength, especially when one is organised through the cooperative. Then we've seen, as I also said in my post instead, the challenges of that there are some properties that are not well run enough, and that we want to stimulate arrondance sales through Statskog. The big sale that we're doing there is historic. We also make liberalisations in property policy that stimulate more for sale, but within the basic idea that we have today – that it is an advantage that very many are on the owner side. Then there's one topic we haven't been enough about in terms of the woodworking industry and a discussion around it. In the case of wood processing and Norwegian forestry, it is completely open to a competitive economy. Exchange rates are among the most important issues in this context. Therefore, it is important that we dare to hold back on fiscal policy when it comes to how much money we are going to spit into the Norwegian economy at all times, so that it is stability. For it is a major challenge for the three-processing industry that we have a relatively high exchange rate in Norway. It creates a competitive disadvantage. That is why we have to keep going, which has been a major challenge, not least for the opposition parties, and with different views between the Progress Party and the Right, which would also create more uncertainty about economic policy, which has followed a stable line with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2600	The representative Lundtigen is able to make his own arguments, but I want to follow up some of his arguments. 14 days ago I attended a major seminar in the direction of Norwegian Industry and the Joint Association. The theme of the seminar was: How are we going to develop Norwegian industry? How are we going to modernise Norwegian industry? There was a broad consensus that the main problem with the Norwegian woodworking industry was that one had for too long the interest in competing on volume and low price and had not converted into a product that could tolerate higher costs. And that's what's the big challenge for the woodworking industry. If we think we can save the woodworking industry just by cutting costs, we'll eventually compete underground. What we have to do is develop new products that can tolerate the Norwegian level of costs. If the Right Party and the Advance Party do not realize it, they will not help to further develop the woodworking industry to be the industry that he can be with the amazing resource base we have, and the great potential we have to have a completely different product range from what we have today. So there I have to say that Lundtigen's challenge is in place. And of course, we can discuss whether there are many people who haven't done enough, but what's going on here is that one challenges the industry to use what's available in research, and then in public we have to invest more in relevant research in order to develop the industry, so that it can tolerate the Norwegian cost level, which all the industry in Norway has to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2609	I understand that this has evolved into a debate on how little the Right Party and the Advance Party have understood or are doing for Norwegian timber processing. I thought Per Olaf Lundtigen's posts were clarifying. He says relatively clearly that it is the government that should have done something here. But then this hall will contribute. That means he has to want a Document No. 8 proposals from the Right and the Advance Party which can contribute to this. We're going to do the best we can, but I have to say that he dishes the baker for the blacksmith when he criticizes us for this. I am also surprised at the temperature in this case. I believe that this was presented by the rapporteur-in-Office – I like to be criticized, I think on the contrary that it is inspiring – in a rather prosaic and careful way. But I understand now that if the opposition has other suggestions than what the government might say yes, then this is black paint. Actually, it's not. We were, and it was the case rapporteur, who put the search light on woodworking in this case. There was no mention of it by the other initiators. So I'd like to talk a little bit about taxes, as the Minister of Agriculture continues to be concerned about it. I think that's good. I should like to mention, for the sake of order, that in our alternative budgets we are proposing further improvements for agriculture, among other things. on a change in the rate of return to 28 pst. So with the address of both the Minister of Agriculture and, to some extent, Per Olaf Lundtigen on what can be done. Norwegian owners of Norwegian wood processing pay a lot more in strange taxes than for example. non-resident owners do. We can talk about new products, like Alf Egil Holmelid does, and we can talk about technology development, but let's also talk about having the same conditions for Norwegian owners as for foreign owners. Then I'm talking about the property tax. No one has so far dared to mention it. I had hoped that perhaps the Center Party, which has many in its midst – if not here so at least outside this hall – who think there is an unfair tax on Norwegian owners, would have said something about it. It is also a contribution to improving the conditions and profitability of the wood processing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2622	I think this has been a tense debate – more tense than I thought. Perhaps the Progress Party has been tired of some sore toes – I don't know – but I think this is a debate that is going to go further outside this hall, and maybe it will come back to the hall in a while. There is no doubt that Norway is made up of many forest properties. It's closer to 120,000, and of these, it's approximately. 30000 that are more than 500 targets. But what's important in this case is that there are only 300 of these forest properties that include one year's work or more. In other words, most properties — almost all of them — are small, and little mowing is done, and it may not be economically mowed either. When you know that a forest needs approx. 80 years of growing from a small plant to a large tree, it goes without saying that if you have a small property, it's hard to get an economy. When you also know that a small property gives other small incomes, it doesn't matter. What the Progress Party wants is that it should be easier to buy one property from another. I don't think these properties are bought up by rich people who want to use them as a resort, as someone says. No, I think they're sold to other active forest owners, because I know – as a forest owner himself – that if I'm going to sell my property, I'm not selling it to anyone, no matter what I get for it. You want it to be transferred to someone who can drive what you've done, what your parents have done, and what your ancestors have done, in a proper and good way. Saying that this is going to be the purchase of rich people as a holiday home, I believe is nonsense. I got a little paff over the representative Lundteg, I have to say it. It's okay to use big words and strong voices, but the matter doesn't get any better from it – I think, at least. Now the government has been sitting – as several have said – for almost eight years, and I cannot at least record that this government has done something particularly better to be a forest owner or operate within this industry and industry here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2638	The use of the word 'customs 'is almost to be considered unparliamentary. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice earlier and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2643	The representative Fleet started talking about a prehistoric era and something that was old-fashioned. Maybe it's prosaic to say it that way. What was my concern was to talk about not having a focus on the goal. The aim today is the poor profitability, which in all parts of the value chain leads to a lack of education, a lack of competence. The responsibility that properties are not well run today lies primarily in this room, because we do not manage to organise financial framework conditions in such a way that it becomes interesting. That's why I want to ask that we stop moralizing over forest owners who don't shoot their properties well enough: that's a result of the framework conditions. There is a need for a strong upgrade; there is a need for a way of thinking similar to what Ivar Aavatsmark had in his time in «Under the roof of the crown» – where we see the fact, we use new tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2648	I think everyone in this room actually agrees that there is a challenge related to the woodworking industry, and that you want to do something about it. The question is just what to do to improve the situation. The representative, Holmelid, says that this is exclusively linked to the profitability, that we are not paid enough for the wood. The profitability of an enterprise is the gap between cost and income. That's what's in between there, which determines whether there's a basis for further operations or not, i.e. an economic surplus on the holding. You can achieve that by increasing your profitability, of course, by getting a higher price in the market. You can also achieve that by bringing down your costs. There are actually a lot of companies that have to do both. The main concern of the wood processing industry is precisely the framework conditions. Then it is important to refer to the matter to be dealt with here next week, what goes on in the budget. Then it goes on, for example. research and development, non- follow-up by the government in the field of nutrition research, and it goes to SkattenFUNN. There has been no improvement in the tax FUNN scheme from this government. There is still too low an hour and too low a roof attached to the TaxFUNN. These are incredibly important things that businesses themselves can use to create new products and to create an increased price in the market. That's what this is all about. It is clear that when it becomes too expensive to transport the timber out of the individual properties because there are too small units, it also affects profitability and whether it is possible to use the timber. It may well be the problem for a lot of people – including forest owners who run their forests and who want to run the forest – that it becomes simply too challenging for cost because it costs so much to take out the timber you have the opportunity to take out. You have to look at this whole food chain, and not just focus on a part of it. That's the whole thing that's important here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2659	I'm just going to answer briefly to the representative Lundtigen's last post. There are several people who have noticed that they didn't like my description that it was prehistoric, old-fashioned, antique or what I said – I don't remember that right now. What that means is that we need to change the situation as society evolves. It's classically good right-wing policy: change to preserve. That's how it works. So the representative Lundteg, who's talking about not having a focus on the goal. It's a little bit hard to understand what it is, but that's what he calls profitability in every term. Then it's the business framework that counts, it's absolutely vital. In the time when the representative of Lundtägen’s party has been in government, the level of costs in Norway has increased by nearly 60 pst. Of course, it's because we've had the opportunity to give ourselves a good paycheck. The right does not sit as a spokesman to reduce wages in this country, but I point out that it is the biggest challenge. This has occurred during the period when the representative Lundteigen – hopefully – has had a certain impact on policy, for example. compensatory measures. Compensatory measures may be so lacking. This may include, inter alia: are fiscal measures, by which I understand that another representative of the Central Party, namely the Council of States, is very concerned. If they can then talk a little bit together, so that even Lundtigen can get a sense of it and be stronger against the government in terms of good, positive tax measures for the industry, that would be good. The same will, of course, be to facilitate innovation in order to stimulate companies themselves to produce new products, but we also need to think about the survival of the existing industry. Then I have been concerned with the measures that are important. I would like to thank the Council of State for their good support and hope that possible future support will be provided by the representative of Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2668	With the danger of forging some of the debate coming next week, it was too tempting not to take the floor now. At a time when the Right Party and the Advance Party have actually been without influence in industrial policy, there has never been any more money spent on public budget research. More money has never been spent on research into the state budget before. Never before has there been more money spent on trafficking in Norway. At that time 340,000 new jobs have been created. This year, more than 20 000 new limited liability companies are established in this country. Norwegian business is doing very well. We have challenges related to the woodworking industry, I think we can all admit that. It is primarily about the Norwegian woodworking industry being too one-sidedly focused on newspaper paper and paper production. That market has fallen. That responsibility must be borne by the tri-processing industry itself. Researching, developing, looking at opportunities to create new markets is exciting, but I think that is best done with the direction that this government has chosen for industrial policy, that is, by focusing more on research, more on transport, and not least by substantiating the long-term and stability of the framework conditions for Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry. Then I am a little surprised when the representative Bredvold says that he is absolutely convinced that most of the properties – yes, that all the properties that will be sold – are transferred to other active forest users. Then I don't understand why it's so important to cancel the concession rules as they work today. It is fully possible through today's concession rules to support other active forest users by selling property, but it requires some rules, some driving rules, which I think most in this room are concerned with the quality of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2680	It's not my intention to extend the meeting – at least not on a theme where I shouldn't at all rely on any point competence; I come from a county where most of the forest almost only reaches my knees. But you get a little surprised when you listen to the debate, because now we've had a debate that almost with concrete walls cuts up the value chain. We have heard representatives argue for an industry totally disconnected from the market. We have to be real-oriented, you say, from the deep forests, but it has to be in a bubble that doesn't see daylight at all! Once upon a time, a profitability perspective has to take the industry from the ground up. We're talking about different industries today, but very often we use the same terms. We're talking about the industry having to be market-oriented. I haven't just heard good arguments for it for this industry. We're talking about that it has to be a competence-based industry. I haven't just heard good arguments for it for this industry. We even talk about being cluster-organized can be successful for some industries, and we talk about innovation, and then it's a little special that you have to keep in mind that the more peripheral and the smaller the ownership of the forest, the better and safer it gets. This is not how we – throughout history – can say that we are sure to find good interoperability arrangements that will solve this. It might seem that we, just for this industry, have definitely not found good cooperative arrangements that have solved this, because then I think the industry might not have faced the problems you see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2690	I understand that the head of the Business Committee feels a bit wrong because we haven't boasted enough of the good results for the government. That was not really what this matter was about, but let me still answer his comments. He says we're not talking about what's going well. No, we are not doing that today, because this debate – particularly brought up by the representative Lundtigen – has been a debate on what has not gone well. Then I understand the head of the Business Committee that what's not going well is the company's own responsibility to do something about – I interpreted him something like that – while what's going well is the government's profit. I just note that this is the position of the head of the nutrition committee towards those who are struggling in the two-track economy that we undoubtedly have in Norway today, and how the mainland industry is finding it difficult in many ways. So this is about not the government's position, so at least the position of the head of the nutrition committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2698	It was the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen who made me take the floor, because when you heard that post, you could get the impression that we are facing a very poor and small diet. Based on the last thing I've read, it's approx. 25 000 annual works in the value chain represented by Norwegian forest and wood processing, so this is a big and heavy chain. It creates many years of work and gives a lot of value creation around the whole of Norway. So even though we are now struggling in certain parts of the woodworking industry, there are a lot of different elements – like house construction, timber – within that value chain. But if we are to be able to achieve good profitability in forestry, get good income – which we can discuss with the background – then we can not only have provision for sawmills, we must also have provision for the grindmill, the mass mill. It's on the mass-activity side that we see the biggest challenges. We have to tackle it and make sure that we have a provision for the mass work even in the generations ahead. So I want to say to Frank Bakke-Jensen: when we talk about Norwegian forestry, we have to talk proudly about Norwegian forestry, because it is a big and heavy industry, and it is also a big export industry, which we also want it to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2707	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2710	A short confession: Of course, I'm very happy if the opposition refers to the government parties' policies as being excellent, but that's not what I was looking for in any way. Since it was mentioned research and other inputs, I thought it was important to mention that in this period and in the state budget we are now dealing with, it is actually a historically high investment in research, and it is a historically high investment in transport, which are important instruments in view of a future woodworking industry. When I said that the woodworking industry itself must be involved and bear some responsibility for the situation in which they are, it is because the Norwegian woodworking industry has been too unilaterally exposed to the paper market – a paper market that to the degrees has failed. I think we should admit that, so to focus on the other possibilities that the Norwegian woodworking industry can actually bring with it, where we also see good examples, for example. Borregaard, who received some public dollars as a contribution now recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2719	The next speaker is Frank Bakke-Jensen, and the president will remind you that the debate is about concession requirements and obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2722	It almost made my trip up here unnecessary, but I just had to thank the Council of State for the informative words. And then I have to say, here's a lot of fine party speeches from the position. It is a little strange that this ‘fantastic’ industrial policy is also based to the extent of a fragmented ownership — that it should be at the bottom. I do not understand that this law should also be so flexible that ownership should be organised, so that it looks good from below – from those who have to own. I believe that a politically fragmented ownership can be no advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2727	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2741	The first speaker is Per Roar Bredvold, the spokesman for the case, and has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2744	I think maybe I've got a little too long speaking time, because this should just be a short post, and I don't think there's going to be any high temperature in this case, as we had in the previous two cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2749	The President will recall that the speaking time is up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2755	I'm aware of that, President! This proposition, Prop. 3 L for 2012–2013, refers to changes in the Land Change Act on Education Requirements for Land Change Ombudsmen, Land Change Judges and Land Change Property with General Permit. In this case, a unanimous committee emphasises that this change should take place as soon as possible and independently of the new Land Change Act. The Committee is also aware of the challenges facing this industry, with a small and vulnerable environment and a high demand for this competence. This in turn leads to a long process time and often heavy costs for those involved. Increasing educational provision will improve recruitment to the courts and thereby improve effectiveness and shorten treatment time. Furthermore, the Committee assumes that the training institutions providing this type of training in the future, following a change in law, organise the training in such a way that the content of the training is transferable between the various educational institutions in the event that the students choose to exchange between educational institutions during the course of training.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2766	The center party has always had a special commitment to the land change rights, and we're committed to strengthening these. Soria Moria II states that the government will ‘maintain the strengthening of land-change rights and implement measures to increase recruitment’. The Land Change Court is a specialised court to help solve problems related to property or property rights throughout Norway. We are therefore dependent on a decentralised and well-functioning court. The Land Change Court also contributes to important areas of competence work in the districts. The cases brought before the courts shall be resolved effectively and with a high quality. For this reason, the courts must have staff with a high level of competence. Soil rights make a major social effort. They have varied and interesting problems. Yet they have too few applicants. Therefore, the Centre Party is pleased that in the 2012 state budget, we were able to increase the salary allocations to the Land Change Court by 10 million. kr. This has been an important first step towards attracting well-qualified applicants to the vacancy of Judges and Chairpersons. In addition, the government is proposing to amend the law on land change so that the educational monopoly of the University of Environment and Life Sciences is abolished. Training from UMB with a special subject is currently necessary to become a land change judge. In recent years it has only been trained about. 10 candidates per year. The recruitment basis is therefore too small. The proposed change in the law on land change could mean that we can get candidates from other educational institutions or lawyers with supplementary education as judges of land change. This will be an important contribution to increasing the recruitment basis. The Land Change Court faces major recruitment challenges. These are linked to the current level of wages and salaries and to a generational shift, of which approximately one third of the country's 91 land change judges and land change rights managers will soon retire. At the same time, there have been too few qualified applicants for vacant posts. In addition, the rights to land change experience the cessation of younger land change judges. The centre party therefore wishes to remove the educational monopoly as soon as possible and will continue its work on other measures to improve recruitment to the land change court.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2783	The size has been addressed by a proposition on changes in the law on land change. The proposition is not very extensive, but the proposal that is being promoted is, in my view, of major importance. Soil courts are an important tool in terms of land and property throughout the country. In the case of land change courts, legal and use conditions relating to immovable property may be clarified and arranged in such a way as to make them as rational and fit as possible. This has great social value. For a long time, however, the recruitment situation in the case of land change judges has been difficult, which has affected the efficiency and capacity of land change courts in a number of places. This is very unfortunate given the important tasks of the courts of the land change. According to the applicable law on land change § 7 fifth paragraph, land change judges are to receive education from the University of Environment and Life Sciences. In other words, only the University of Environment and Life Sciences, former NLH, can train land change judges. As an element in improving the recruitment situation, the government, on the initiative of the Court of Justice, has made proposals for amendments to the fifth paragraph of Section 7 of the Land Change Act, which repeals the educational monopoly of the University of Environment and Life Sciences. In this way, land-change vocational training can also be opened up at other educational institutions. In my view, this will be of great importance in terms of as good and broad a recruitment process as possible for land change training. The government has proposed this regardless of the ongoing work on new law on land change, which could take some time before the entry into force of a new law on land change. It is important that recruitment measures are launched as soon as possible. This requires planning and follow-up over time. I am pleased that the Committee endorses this proposal and at the same time clarifies that the change should be implemented as quickly as possible and independently of the new law on landslides. I have noted the Committee's assumption that the educational institutions which, following the amendment of the law, offer such education in the future are setting up the education so that students can switch between educational institutions during the course of education. This is an important clarification that I will follow up with the Administration of the Court of Justice, which has been delegated the competence to determine the profession of midwifery education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2802	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2816	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2825	This year, too, I am delighted to present the notification concerning the fisheries agreements concluded with other countries for 2012 and fishing under the agreements in 2010 and 2011. There is a message that provides useful information for Storting. In recent years, this communication has created a great debate in this Chamber, and according to the comments of the opposition to judge, I expect that there will be a good debate this year as well. Such a notification shall be submitted to the Stortinget annually, and this notification shall mention the 2012 quota agreements and Norwegian participation in multilateral fisheries cooperation and in regional management organisations. In addition, the notification of stock calculation, advice, state reports and long-term management plans for the main stocks shared by Norway with other countries informs. In addition, the notification informs of the control measures in place to control Norwegian and foreign fishing on agreed allowances, as well as the control cooperation with other countries and measures against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, etc. There are several cases that have received a lot of attention in recent years. Firstly, this communication provides precisely good information on the fight against illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing. It is a matter with which this government has worked a lot for several years. It's also given very good results. This work does not stop. This government will continue to focus heavily on this work in the future. Secondly, in recent years Norway has put drafts on the agenda with good results. The third area that has been natural to be addressed separately in the Communication is international maritime environmental processes, where Norway has gradually taken a central role. I would like to highlight some areas that emerge from the Committee's consideration. Then I start counting again: Firstly, the fight against fishing crime is complicated and involves both police, prosecution authorities and control authorities. The Coast Guard and the Fisheries Directorate play a significant role in the work on fishing crime. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party are in charge of the Advance Party in comments such as: also highlights this. Then it is a paradox that the Progress Party proposes in its budget proposal to cut 39 million. kr. to the Directorate of Fisheries, which includes, inter alia: will have implications for the response to illegal fishing. As a result of the government’s North Sea effort and the emphasis on the ability to exercise sovereignty and authority, the allocation of the Coast Guard has increased significantly in recent years. The capacity of the Coast Guard has been improved as a result of modernisation, including: by discharging the full range of the Coast Guard duties of the new vessels. I am therefore surprised to note that the members of the Right and the Progressive Party are astonished and concerned that there is a reduction in the budget for the Coast Guard which could lead to a decrease in the control activity and monitoring of our sea areas. It looks like these parts have stopped in the middle of a sentence in many ways. There's no reduction. The proposal to reduce appropriations is due to the savings and reversal of the one-off allocation for the classification of KV ‘Senja’. Parties to the Government are satisfied that the Coast Guard budget has been maintained at the same high level and that no reduction in the activity of the Coast Guard with regard to the level of navigation and the ability to discharge tasks is foreseen. Then it can't be so that it's the government that's to blame for the damage and conditions that force the coastguard ships to dock or at the workshop. I think that'll be perceived as something drooling. The other area I would like to touch on here is that in 2012, an extraordinary session of the Analysis Group was held, which is a cooperation body between Norway and Russia. The session mainly concerned the harmonisation of the technical legislation for fishing in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea, including issues relating to the Svalbard fishing zone. Another theme was the design of fish, mainly because Norway reserved for the draft formulation that was written earlier. The background to the reservation was that the formulation posed major evidence challenges for the control of fishing. Thirdly, it is very disappointing that a coastal state agreement for mackerel has not been put in place, and it seems that the parties are far apart. Neither Iceland nor the Faeroe Islands have been willing to engage in real negotiations, despite the fact that there has been no lack of concrete offers from Norway and the EU. I would like to conclude that this message provides a good overview of the important work that the message explains well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2859	First, I want to start my post by giving a tribute to the Council of State, a reward for just working on the UUU-fishing. In this room, all parties have expressed concern about what has happened, and what unfortunately also happens to a number of places. We therefore very much appreciate the work that has been especially linked to the introduction of good practice for things such as: are carried out in the Barents Sea in connection with the agreements we have in particular: has with Russia. It's been important. We're also looking at population development. Stock development has now been so positive that it has almost become a problem, because the extraction we are about to take off cod presents challenges – I would say – for the industry of the time to come. But it's a positive development that you have to take with you, and that's very good. What is missing in the notification is the overall picture related to the fisheries agreement – how we should be able to optimise the extraction of biomass on which we depend, because it is quite obvious that there are many fish species that are also predators. Obviously, when some populations get too large in relation to other populations, you start grazing on the other populations, and you can get into a situation where it collapses into a population because it's actually become too large. These things are very important to focus on in the years to come. In particular, this is important in the North Sea and in the Norwegian Sea, especially when we look at the huge population as among others. is attached to the mackerel. We've also seen a development for NVG-silda, that is, our herring populations, where we've been in a situation with regard to the next year's quotas, that we've actually reaped some strong classes of years over a period of time and now see that population development is negative, that we're facing challenges and that the herring quotas are falling. It's clear that this is what the Marine Research Institute has seen very clearly on the tokens they've now taken, where you're beaming for herring eggs and larvae. Then you see this development. Therefore, it is very important that in the years to come, we take a number of stomach tests – even more than we do today – just to know how stock development is when we are going to enter into these negotiations with other countries. From this platform, I would like to express my deep concern at the situation associated with the dispute between Norway and the European Union, really, on the one hand, and Iceland and the Faeroe Islands on the other. This is something that cannot continue, for Iceland and the Faeroe Islands set their own quotas that do not differ from the historical withdrawal in those countries that have had the historical fishing for the stocks. This cannot continue, and I am very disappointed that the EU has not been able to put in place a decision on a landing ban. I know that the Council of State and many have been working towards the EU, and it is an effective response if you get it in place. But as long as Norway has a unilateral landing ban, it also exposes us to other issues. What we are now seeing is that Iceland and the Faeroe Islands are building up their own industry linked to the pelagic sector. That gives us challenges. Furthermore, the representative from the Workers' Party, Lillian Hansen, was concerned with what has to do with the Advance Party and cuts in the Fisheries Directorate. The budget for the Directorate of Fisheries is NOK 375 800 000 – NOK 375 800 000! We've clarified that these things should not go beyond the control, but it's just that we have to work smarter – that's also true in terms of the simplification bit, in the directorate. So it's completely unproblematic. So a little thing at the end. This concerns the agreement that was celebrated a while ago, where we had received Sweden and Denmark for a draft ban in Skagerrak. It is sad that the draft ban agreement has been suspended for a period of one year. I expect and hope that it will be put back in place again, and that we will get rid of the problem of drafts. It is a udder and must cease to exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2878	Fisheries management is an area of utmost importance for Norway, and it is also an area in which Norway has great international recognition. That is why this is a good message. It is also an important message as to what kind of climate there is between our partners and what kind of climate it is for the agency that is here. It has been working well for many years – to be told – in relation to our neighbouring countries and natural interlocutors. That is why there is a great deal of agreement in this Chamber on the negotiations to be held and on the direction to be taken. As in the other parts of our important foreign policy, we are largely united on both directions and objectives. That is why I am not going to frame so much of what is in the message. In comments, we have largely supported the Council of State for the work she is doing, and have also described challenges that are similar to the challenges described by the Council of State in its communication. The stock situation is important in this case and it must be followed. It's just by being the best knowledge that we can sit in the driver's seat in Norway when it comes to managing our own resources. Then to the representative, Hansen. Critical statements have been made regarding the activity of the Coast Guard and the number of days sailing. Critical comments have been made on the number of faulty coastal watchtowers that need to be repaired. It must be legitimate to question the decline in appropriations for the Coast Guard. This is the case in the high-cost country of Norway that we should not live long before equal appropriations from one year to another actually mean a decline in activity, and that is what we have requested in the comments. When the position allows itself to say that they are satisfied with the phenomenal appropriations, and we record that there is a decline, we must be allowed to ask questions about it. We believe that the success of the Coast Guard Council has to be measured in the number of days – measured in activity. We are not quite sure that a real drop in money will create more sailing days for the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2891	90 pst. Of the fish resources that we harvest, we are from populations that we share with other countries. Therefore, international cooperation is a crucial basis for a resilient administration. There may well be reason to believe that the international cooperation that we have had in recent years contributes to the good population development that we have had. Operational international cooperation is a necessary means of sound management of fishing resources. SV is committed to further developing this cooperation, which is an important part of our fisheries management. Today's papers deal with the 2012 allowance agreements and the international cooperation in which Norway participate. Important bilateral negotiations have been carried out with the EU, with Greenland and with Russia. Cooperation with Russia has expanded in recent years to include new areas. This is important in order to maintain the large fish resources we have in common. Better cooperation between control authorities in the two countries is a concrete and important result of Norwegian-Russian cooperation. Norway has taken the lead in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing. International cooperation and many different measures have resulted in less UUU fishing in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea. SV believes it is important to continue this work. The fight against discards of fish has also been a high priority from the Norwegian side. This issue is a challenge in our cooperation with the EU. We are looking forward to the process in the EU leading to a ban on drafts. As former representatives have been in this House today, drafts are tedious. We are concerned that the European Union also realizes this every now and then. The Ministerial Declaration of Norway, Sweden and Denmark on the prohibition of drafts in Skagerrak is an important step on the road. Let's hope that's the start of a process that can make the EU see what needs to be done to end drafts. In fisheries, as in other cases, good environmental policies are also good business policies. To secure the renewable resource that fish are, we need to focus on sustainable management and clean seas and clean fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2906	Norway participates in a wide range of international organisations in the fisheries sector. The message that is being addressed today deals with what we have achieved, and what challenges we face. The fight against illegal fishing has been central in the negotiations with Russia for several years, and we have also worked on this issue on other fronts. We have achieved a lot, which I also record that the committee agrees. I thank you on behalf of the entire government for the recognition that comes to our attention. I share it with both former fisheries minister, foreign minister and the entire government. The cod in the Barents Sea is now in very good condition, and the quota in 2013 is on record 1 million tonnes. Other stocks in the Barents Sea are also in good condition, to the delight of Norwegian – and for that matter others – fishermen. The Committee points out that we do not have an agreed agreement in place in the case of mackerel. I am also very disappointed that we were not able to set up a mackerel agreement this autumn either. We want a balanced and comprehensive agreement from Norway, but not at all costs. Luckily, then, newer ones took the view that the population is fortunately in good condition. Norway has been grounding mackerel from Icelandic and Faeroese vessels since 2010. The EU Commission has now also put in place a framework regulation to allow trade sanctions against third countries which do not cooperate in the management of common resources. We closely monitor developments in the EU in this area, and we also assess further action by the Norwegian side. A challenge for the resources we share with the EU is the design of fish. The draft of fish is unethical, wasted with natural resources and wasted with fishermen’s efforts, says EU Fisheries Commissioner Maria Damanaki. I totally agree with her. That is why I hope that the EU's ongoing fisheries reform process will result in a draft ban in the EU as well. From Norway, we have been active in the EU reform process, both through written input and significant meeting activities. I myself have discussed the reform with both Commissioner Damanaki and a number of Member States. A first concrete step was taken one year ago, with a joint Ministerial Declaration from Norway, Sweden and Denmark to introduce a draft ban in Skagerrak. In July this year, we agreed with the EU on an agreement for the implementation of this declaration. However, due to decision-making procedures, the EU will not be able to implement all legislation by 1 January 2013. I then record that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party therefore believe that the agreement must be postponed by the Norwegian side. It's an opinion that I don't share. I think it would be best if we stood by the agreement and made the new rules applicable to anyone fishing in the Norwegian zone of Skagerrak. Then I have been informed that Sweden and Denmark have the aim of introducing the new technical regulations from 1 February next year. The important thing is that this comes, and we agree that discards of fish are not compatible with sustainable and modern fisheries management. Although the EEA Agreement is not part of the content of this notification, it is the guarantor of entry into the Union market. This market is the sovereign most important for Norwegian seafood. It means huge sums in customs savings. Nor should we forget the benefits of being harmonised in the field of hygiene. This includes, inter alia: Norwegian seafood may cross the EU border without prejudice to veterinary border controls. Marine nutrition is an international industry and therefore international cooperation in both resource management, control and trade is essential to ensure good and stable framework conditions. This is a work that we also prioritise in the UN, in the FAO, in regional fisheries management organisations, in bilateral cooperation and in the work on trade agreements. But it's long-term and it's an important job, and I think we've achieved good results over time. In the Rio+20 declaration, which came in June this year, it was for example. The first time the seas were given great international attention in such negotiations. So I'd like to use the last 9 seconds to explain a little bit about the Coast Guard activity, but I'm assuming that I might be able to do it through a line round.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2932	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2935	Yes, then the State Council will have its wish fulfilled. It is true that the Coast Guard, in line with the Marine, has some challenges both in terms of increased costs and increased activity, but also in terms of recruiting competent crews, in competition with a viable maritime industry that is internationally targeted and that makes good money on oil. The two-part economy we're talking about mostly in all the fields here in Norway, and the problem is the same here. So my eloquent question to the Council of State may be – so it may be that she gets black as she pleases: does the Council of State see that it can be challenging for the Coast Guard to complete the mission with the budgets she has delivered now?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2944	I'm going to try to answer the question in respect of both the replicator and the Stortinget. It may be a little overly eager to ask for one special line, but I have a strong desire to show you what's actually happening. It is such that the appropriations allocated to the Coast Guard have increased significantly in recent years and are continuing at a high level. Let there be no doubt that the Coast Guard is very important in terms of that contribution, and illegal fishing has been greatly reduced in recent years. So one of them is the sum of the dollars and the penny that comes out, more important is the activity -- patrol day. Of course, I have been sent over from the Minister of Defence, who is responsible for this. It shows a growth in the number of patrol days – I start with last year, which was 3,600, the 2012 plan is 3,754, and the 2013 plan is 3,889. There was almost an NSB level at the precision level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2951	The Coast Guard will probably be allowed to discuss the next week, too, and we will have plenty of opportunity for that. My question to the Council of State is going to challenge the Council of State in terms of seeing the totality — optimal extraction of biomass in the sea, in particular related to the Norwegian Sea and what is happening there, especially in the case of mackerel and herring. It is simply because the fear that we can now get into a situation where the mackerel population becomes so large that it can eventually collapse as a result of – I was saying – the food resources in the sea; you get a twist. Can the Council of State say what to do in this regard? Is there now a specific effort for the Marine Research Institute to look at how much biomass can be extracted from these populations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2961	I noticed in the post of the representative Nesvik important points related to knowledge-gathering – being in the forefront of knowledge all the time. That is why I also look forward to the debate on the research part of my budget. I am aware that it is another committee, but I hope that perhaps more people will take part in that debate. It's one of the areas that I'm giving a very high priority, it's the foundation of the entire administration that was also shown to be at an international top level. It has to keep going. Then, of course, multi-stock management requires even more knowledge about the different species, but not least about the relationship between the different species – that is quite correct, as the representative says. Then we have some terms between here to give us advice, ICES, among other things. We have management plans that we can't change from one year to the next. But what I can confirm is that the acquisition of knowledge on mackerel will be continued at a high level.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2968	As an observer of the Western Norse Council, I have discussed several times with my Western Norse colleagues what we in Norway define as a significant overfishing of mackerel as a result of the lack of agreements. It is clear that we do not have a common understanding and confidence of what is being said about today's fishing, that it is not sustainable, and that this could lead to a reduction in future mackerel fishing. My question to the Council of State, an idea that emerged in the Faeroe Islands, is whether it has been discussed to allow marine scientists from Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Norway to come together to develop a common strategy and recommendation for a sustainable withdrawal, which may in turn be the basis for the negotiations ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2975	What I understand is that the question applies – just to be absolutely sure – is whether the researchers should decide. I would strongly warn against that. I believe that the researchers should give us knowledge, they should help to make research on the right things, and the knowledge is put into a council. But to say that politicians should not be politicians – making the political level superfluous – I would warn very strongly against it. One thing, of course, is to bring with you the knowledge of the populations, on which the marine scientists are very good at. There is extensive cooperation between Iceland, Norway and the Faeroe Islands. We hope to get more on it in terms of driving taken together, having common parameters to measure by. But when quotas are to be set, and negotiations are to be conducted between countries, I still believe that politicians are the best at that, because there are actually more considerations to be taken than just biological ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2980	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2985	It's not always time to say what you want in just 5 minutes, so I'm going to try to take a few more points within the fisheries policy. This applies to agreements that we have with other countries – the fisheries agreements. We can't help but think of the overall resource situation, including what we have to deal with in terms of agreements. Then it's important that we focus on several things. One thing that has not been said in this debate, which is not included in the communication, and on which I am asking for some focus, is just related to the withdrawal of marine mammals. It is clear that if the population of marine mammals becomes too large, it goes beyond the population of other species of fish. Today it is assumed that we have approx. two million seals in the Vesterisen – i.e. on the western hemisphere. Obviously, there are major challenges when we know that an adult sell eats about. 15 kg of fish every day. It goes without saying that this has major challenges also in terms of the resource situation, and what we can do further. When we in Norway know that in the current year we sent out only two cell cuts in the West ice with catches in excess of 5,000 animals, it is clear that there is too little, and we have to get it up to control the population. I think many of us remember what happened some years ago, when we got selinvation along the coast due to food shortages. Fortunately, there is still enough food in the sea today, so we don't have that problem, but it can come quickly, and we need to get control of the situation. With regard to the Coast Guard and what you've said there, it's because you want to bear the increase in the allocation that was for the current year. The coastguard also has other challenges, related to other vessels that need upgrade, and having a larger budget to have even more sailing days. For the Coast Guard, the actual support of the executive control is of the State. We have the inner coast view, and then we have the Coast Guard going out into the open sea. That is why it is important; we want to maintain the size of the allocation and not cut it down as a result of the completion of the work on KV “Senja”. I'm glad that the Council of State agreed with me in view of how important it is to have this knowledge of the populations, because this concerns the totality of what is happening in the sea. These things affect each other, and then it's important that we bet well and healthy. The fishing industry – the wild fish industry – exports too huge values, and it is important that we safeguard the interests that exist there. That's why it's so sad that the government comes with the import protection related to cheese, because I'm afraid that can affect in a negative direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e2998	Norway has significantly increased its sea areas in recent years, and the role clarifications regarding who should mark Norwegian sovereignty and Norwegian presence in peacetime are quite clear – it is not the Norwegian Navy, but the Norwegian Coast Guard. Therefore, I am not immediately reassured that we have an increase of 200 days of sailing time in two to three years. It might well be that we need a much larger increase. First of all, there are the increased areas, as I mentioned in the introduction, but it's also so that we have increased activity in many fields in our marine areas. We have increased exploration, we have increased fishing, we have populations moving, so we're probably getting more needy to mark presence. It may well be that the increase outlined for the Coast Guard here will not be sufficient. Then to the stock management. We have a whole new situation. We've had record-breaking populations of the vast majority of species in the last few years. It makes us talk about a whole new ecosystem in many ways. At least we're talking about an ecosystem with many, many more unknowns than what we talked about earlier. Then it doesn't have to be right to settle down that we continue to acquire knowledge at the level we've done. It may well be that we should escalate that knowledge acquisition, so that we're in the forefront of what's going to happen in the ocean. That's the way it's a whole new picture we're looking at now, and maybe we shouldn't just turn to the chest and say how nice we've been -- maybe we should be a little bit more curious and figure out what it's been that we've been so good at managing the stock, leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3009	The Right Party and the Progressive Party have, through comments and this debate, tried to present it as – and far on the road insinuated – that there has been a significant cut in the Coast Guard. That's not true. Over several years, we have significantly increased the allocation to the Coast Guard, both for increased operation and for the implementation of significant modernisation of the structure. Modernisation has improved the capacity and performance of the Coast Guard, allowing for an increased presence and enhanced performance of the Coast Guard’s primary tasks, especially in the north — increasing activity. The government's draft budget underlines that. As I said in my main post: the 2013 budget proposal facilitates a further increase, both overall and in the northern regions, of an already good activity level for the Coast Guard. In addition, the Coast Guard is assigned a Reine-class vessel, which strengthens the level of activity of the Internal Coast Guard by up to 160 patrol days a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3016	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3030	As rapporteur of the dossier, I present the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on the approval for the approval of the EEA Committee’s release for inclusion in the EEA Agreement Regulation on recycled plastic materials and articles. It empowers the European Commission to approve applications for the use of processes for the recycling of plastic materials intended to come into contact with food and which will have a direct impact on Norwegian enterprises. It is the European Commission that is to be the decision-making body for the applications from the Norwegian enterprises, because it has come to the conclusion that they are best equipped to do so. Norwegian influence is ensured by participation in the European Commission working group, which discusses the decisions before they are finalised. It now facilitates the free movement of such goods on the internal market. The recommendation has been promoted by an overall committee, and I refer to the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence also agrees with this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3041	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3055	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3069	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3083	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3097	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3111	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3125	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3140	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3154	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3168	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3182	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3196	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3210	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3216	Then Stortinget will vote in case No. 1–26.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3644	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right proposal No. 4-7, by Mr Per Sandberg on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 8, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of Right. The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 8 from the right. The proposal reads: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals for legislative decisions establishing the limits for the use of military resources and military power towards civilians in peacetime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3671	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1-3, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 reads: ‘The government is asked to review all aspects of the loss of rigging Deep Sea Driller, explaining both cause and liability and clarifying any responsibility of the authorities towards survivors and survivors.’ 2 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit an obliging capacity plan for criminal services with an assessment of priority actions. An assessment is requested of which projects can be organised as OPS and which can be implemented quickly.» 3 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan of operations for the implementation of a new emergency centre in the Oslo area as soon as possible.’ The left has notification that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e3698	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 4-7, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 reads: ‘The government is asked to provide a guarantee of work for all police students who have completed their three-year police training, so that they are entitled to work. The guarantee shall be valid up to the target of 2 officials per year. 1 000 inhabitants have been reached." 5 reads: 'The government asks the government to remove the ceiling entirely on the compensation for the victims of violence.' 6 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to assess whether the Husbank’s loan arrangements can be used more widely for persons under Code 6.’ Proposal No. 7 reads: ‘The government asks for 10 million dollars. crowns of increased control activity related to illegal cabotage operations.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e5570	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e5602	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the maintenance of the legal aid first-line project until an evaluation report has been discussed in the Stortinget.’ The left has indicated that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e5628	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an adequate overview of the extent of free movement and the increase in the level of freedom of justice and the reasons for the increase.’ The left has indicated that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6504	During the debate, a proposal by Anders B. Werp was presented on behalf of the Judicial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4 shall be replaced by the following: no applicable conditions may be agreed or made in force contrary to the provisions of this Act. Furthermore, from the date of entry into force of the Act, no binding agreement may be reached on the conditions of the fixed period after the entry into force of amendments to the rules on extension of the Law on Landings.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6545	The President noted that Section 4 was drawn up in the proposal of the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6556	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6566	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6733	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6744	The ceiling will be set for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6763	In Case No. 7 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6771	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal No will first be voted on. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether knowledge of data security is to enter school as part of the training in relation to new technologies and their management’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up a reward scheme, whereby public/private business forms part of cooperation as an instrument for enhancing the security of the community.’ Votering Suggestions from Progress Party were 78 against 23 voices not adopted. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.20.43]] The Committee had recommended that: Document 8:147 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6805	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right, which reads: ‘The government is asked to provide a national strategy for enhanced information and cybersecurity. The strategy must clarify the division of responsibilities and tasks within this field at ministerial level.’ The left has indicated their support for the proposal. Votering In the case of alternative voting between the Committee's recommendation and the Advance Party proposal and the Right, the recommendation was adopted by 61 votes to 39. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.21.39]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6825	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anders B. Werp on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a Council to coordinate efforts between the relevant authorities for assistance to Norwegian parents who have had a child.’ Votering The proposal from the Progress Party was accepted by 79 votes to 22. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.22.12]] The Committee had recommended that: Document 8:115 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6851	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right, which reads: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative proposals to stop welfare benefits such as child benefit, cash support, contribution benefits, child contribution and other relevant welfare benefits in the event of child abduction.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they support the proposal. Votering In the case of alternative voting between the Committee's recommendation and the Advance Party proposal and the Right, the recommendation was adopted by 55 votes to 46. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.22.59]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6871	During the debate, Svein Fleet has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate and propose amendments to Law No 28 November 2003. 98 on the concession by acquisition of real estate, etc. [[Concession Act]] so that the concession requirement for the acquisition of forest property can be lifted as soon as possible.’;» The President will take note of the fact that the Christian People's Party is represented in an incubation as the proposer of the recommendation. The left has indicated their support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document 8:106 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6901	During the debate, Svein Fleet has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate and propose amendments to Law No 28 November 2003. 98 on the concession by acquisition of real estate, etc. [[Concession Act]] by removing the residence requirement for forest properties as soon as possible.» The President will take note of the fact that the Christian People's Party is also here at an incubation as the proposer of the recommendation. The left has indicated their support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document 8:107 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6962	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e6972	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-04.ana.ud1523e7009	In the case of cases No. 15–26, are the second time dealing with legal cases. The President will disclose an error in the heading of Legislative Decision 17. A corrected version has been distributed in the representative places. No comment proposal was made for any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy is adopted at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 27 is Unit, but there was a vote on case No. 27 at the beginning of the meeting today. Ask for the word before quitting? - It's not, and the meeting is over.
