ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e54	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.R. Rolf Nilssen is dead, 84 years old. As a young Narvikværing, Nilssen was trained as a locomotive firefighter, a profession he had until he became LO Secretary in Northland in 1962. Later he became the head of LO's district office in Tromsø. Rolf Nilssen was elected to Stortinget in 1977. After a time as a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, he later became a member of the Financial Committee. There he was given responsibility for the «price and income stop» that the Nordli government presented, a demanding matter, but he managed the job with shine. Here came his rich background from party work and trade union to his right. At Stortinget he otherwise engaged in pay terms for workers and in the fisheries policy. He ended his third and last growing period in which he began, as a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, now as Vice-Chairman. The Maritime and Fisheries Committee was usually not given a high level of media attention in the national media. This was not the case during the Committee's work on the Norwegian International Ship Register. [[NIS]] Nilssen's commitment also went beyond the matters he dealt with on a daily basis at Stortinget. In particular, he strongly intrigued for a new railway in the north. At Stortinget, Rolf Nilssen was a member of the Stortinget delegation to the Interparliamentary Union. He was a delegate to the 1987 UN General Assembly. People who knew Rolf Nilssen refer to him as a man of cooperation who was capable of finding solutions through dialogue. Among his many political responsibilities is his involvement in the Tromsø Workers' Party and in the County Party, the Troms Workers' Party – where he was also the leader. He was also a member of the National Government of the Workers' Party. After Rolf Nilssen finished at Stortinget after 12 years, in 1989, he continued to engage politically. Until his death he was a member of the board of the hope Arbeiderlag in Tromsø, a team he himself participated in forming in 1983. We thank you for a long day of work in the service of society and bring peace to Rolf Nilssen's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e80	The representatives Åse Michaelsen, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Peter N. Myhre, Dagfinn Høybråten and Gunn Karin Gjul, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Terje Halleland, has taken the seat. From the representative of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, an application for welfare leave is made from 13 November to 15 November. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Afshan Rafiq, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. Afshan Rafiq is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e135	Our relationship with Europe is a key element in our domestic policy as well as in our foreign policy. Our relationship with Europe and European integration affects all aspects of Norwegian society. It affects everyone living in Norway. The same applies to the whole of Europe west of Belarus: all countries are either: EU candidate country or candidate country EU member of the EEA, such as Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway, or has a comprehensive set of bilateral agreements, such as Switzerland. This is the whole repertoire and the models of European cooperation. The EU is the main driver of economic and political cooperation in Europe. Any participant in a debate on Norway's relationship with Europe makes sense to base this recognition, regardless of what we each of us might think about membership or about the EEA Agreement as such. To put it another way: Europe is not another place. It's right here. Norway participates in the internal market through the EEA. We participate through the Schengen Agreement and through a number of other agreements in the field of justice. We are an active partner with the EU in the field of foreign policy, defence policy and security policy, for example. through the European Defence Agency, the EDA. By participating in many of these cooperation schemes, we take our share of the responsibility to contribute to development in Europe. It is therefore essential that we participate as an active and constructive partner in those arenas where we cooperate with our European sisters and brothers, not least now as Europe is facing major challenges. It is important that we from Norway are clear about what is Norwegian interest and use the space for action we have to assert these interests in a better way. This is a key message in the Government’s European Communication and in the recently submitted Communication on Norway’s agreements with the EU. The active European policy of the Government has ensured important Norwegian interests. Among other things, we have continued the differentiated employer fee, an important element of an effective policy to ensure business activity throughout the country. We also have an impact on a fall-back policy that ensures that eternal hydropower resources are in public ownership. A prerequisite for clearly expressing and asserting Norwegian interests in European cooperation is an active European debate. The government has wanted to contribute to this, among others. through the public investigation of the Liaison Agency that regulates cooperation between the EU and Norway. That is why we are very pleased to see that the interest in our relationship with Europe has flared up again, including in the organisational and social life. This is a debate that I warmly welcome. We need an active debate because discussion helps to strengthen knowledge of European issues and the relationship with our neighbourhoods. Once again, a Europe in crisis is being debated by the European Union/EEA. As we all know, euro cooperation is still under pressure, including: as a result of major economic imbalances between participating countries and high and growing sovereign debt in some countries. Confidence in financial markets has been reduced. Banks and financial institutions have broken down, or are only kept alive with public assistance. In recent years, high government debt and large budget deficits have become a general phenomenon among OECD countries. It is also a major challenge for the United States, Japan and the United Kingdom. However, it strikes the euro area countries in a special way. Europe is in stagnation. EU countries are trying to support each other by providing large loans to countries that are most affected. However, in order to obtain these loans, the hard hit countries, which have been able to survive for a long time, have to clean up the economy and ensure the management of the income-expenditure ratio. This leads to tax increases and extensive cuts in public budgets. Public employees lose their jobs or are paid less, transfer schemes are reduced, and public demand less from the private sector. An evil circle is going on. The result is increasing unemployment. In many countries, unemployment has fallen. In particular, youth unemployment is alarmingly high in many European countries. This is more than numbers. It's about people. For example, this is a case in point. on Spanish middle-class families with good education who fear that their young people will never get a job. It's about young Greeks who have lost faith in the future, who fear that they will be the generation that never got paid work, even when the economy once turns. So it's about individuals and their social tragedies in countries and societies that are very similar to our own. Trust in the powers of government and in democracy itself is diminishing. Social unrest is increasing. This weakens people's faith in the future. It is in the long term a threat not only to social development and well-being in Europe but also to democracy itself. Open societies rely on trust. Democracy does not have good growth conditions where people are looking darkly at the future. In the ultimate sense, today's economic crisis may end in a political and even security crisis. In addition to this, we are living in a time of major global changes, with the emergence of new economic centres and declining competitiveness in Europe. At the same time, we see that we are working hard to solve the crisis, from many quarters. The biggest difference between today’s situation and the European crisis of the 1930s is that today we have regional and global institutions and organisations – such as the European Union here in Europe and the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, and the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, at global level. Without such institutions, common driving rules and political will to act, we had, in my view, been far worse off. Protectionism had advised, and countries in crisis had once again sought to export their problems to their neighbors. In fact, for the EU, the answer seems to be more integration and interaction. How does this play a role in our own Norwegian European debate and in our own policy? What can we do ourselves to deal with these challenges? I want to focus on three things. First of all, safe control at home. In Norway, we have low unemployment, good government finances and a dynamic and adaptable business. We have low-risk oil and gas exports, and we are pursuing a sober and responsible fiscal policy. It's based on a broad consensus in this room not to spend the oil money right away, but to manage it as a value we share with the North of the future. When it blows like shit out there, it's especially important that we keep order in our own economy. We must safeguard social security, equality and distribution policy. This is the strength of the Norwegian model. We therefore need to protect the Norwegian working life model, and we need to ensure a continued adaptive business that keeps up with international challenges. The Norwegian model has its roots in the international crisis of the interwar years. After World War II it was further built on the recognition that work for all and social protection are the main measures for economic growth and development in the economy. It was – and is – a model to succeed in an open and changeable world. Secondly, the security and predictability of our active European policy. The Norwegian economy is open and exports amount to about 40 pst. GDP. More than three quarters of our exports go to the EU. The internal market is the reality of Norwegian business day-to-day. The same applies to a large number of Nordics living or working in other EEA countries. With parts of Europe in crisis, predictability in this framework becomes even more important to us. The Government is therefore committed to using the possibilities and scope of action provided by the EEA Agreement and our other agreements with the EU to create predictability and security and to promote Norwegian interests in the best possible way. Thirdly, in order to address the challenges, we need to have an active involvement in Europe. We are fundamentally dependent on a positive development in Europe. Norway has a strong tradition of contributing to international processes. We have a tradition of seeking good solutions to the problem – common interests and mutual benefits – and we have a tradition of caring for our own national interests. For there need be no contradiction between mutual benefit and self-interest. And that's the approach we're going to continue to take in European policy. The last six months have been marked by an active European policy change at home. The government has submitted two messages to Stortinget: Report. St. 20 for 2011–2012, EEA funds. Solidarity and cooperation in Europe, which we will debate next Thursday, and Announce. St. 5 for 2012–2013, the EEA Agreement and Norway’s other agreements with the EU. Key priorities and instruments of Norwegian European policy. The NOU 2012 public investigation: 2, Outside and within Norway’s agreements with the EU, and other investigations have also contributed to putting the EEA Agreement and Norway’s relationship with Europe on the agenda. That's good. In addition, various issues such as cross-border crime, the space situation, the influx of jobseekers from other European countries, the postal directive and the Norwegian labour market model have brought European policy into the domestic political debate. It again shows that domestic and foreign policies are inextricably linked. In the Communication to the European Parliament on the EEA Agreement and the other agreements of Norway with the EU, the Government states that the basis for the exercise and implementation of European policy is the EEA Agreement and the other agreements of Norway with the EU and an active involvement in the development of peace, stability and democracy in Europe. The government’s assessment is that the EEA Agreement has been – and is – important for the development of the Norwegian economy, business and foreign trade. It is a very central part of the relationship with our neighbours and trading partners. There has been a good development in the Norwegian economy in the years since the agreement entered into force. The scope and level of commitment of the EEA Agreement is greater than any other international cooperation Norway participates in, while Norway does not sit at the table when the EU takes decisions. The government sees that this means that the democratic challenges are more prominent. At the same time, we should remember that, over five major periods, the majority of the population and six different governments have laid the foundations of the EEA Agreement and our other agreement with the EU at the heart of Norwegian policy. For the government, it is essential to organise the work of the EEA Agreement and our other body of agreement with the EU in a way that respects key principles such as transparency, participation, participation and effective governance in the best possible way. Norway shall have a concrete and solidarity commitment to the pan-European challenges. Europe is our continent, and we cannot shut ourselves out of Europe's challenges. The question is how best to help solve them. How do we build Norway, and how do we at the same time contribute to building Europe? To illustrate this, I will go through some of the most important European policy issues on our agenda. Later today we are going to discuss the interpellation of the representative Fleet on percentage duty and agricultural products. In Norway, we have developed extensive cooperation between the social partners and the authorities. This cooperation has helped us to deal with crises and make us a adaptable and adaptable society. Cooperation has supported the development of a strong social security network and broad access to public services, including: education and health. Together with good economic governance, the Norwegian model has facilitated high employment and low unemployment. Compared to other countries, participation in employment in Norway is particularly high among women. We can, among other things: Thanks to good leave arrangements, kindergartens and a work life that makes it possible to combine family and work, for this. High participation in professional life is an important prerequisite for economic development. This is particularly important in the coming years, when an increasing proportion of the population will be made up of older people over working age. This is a challenge we share with most other European countries. The Norwegian labour and welfare model is now receiving increased international attention. In Poland, the government proposes to extend maternity leave and introduce full childcare coverage. The World Economic Forum in Davos discusses Norwegian welfare systems. Why? Because the Norwegian model works. The European Commission’s proposal for a new regulation, the so-called Monti II Regulation on equalising strike rights and other collective rights with the right to provide services and to establish themselves, did not take sufficient account of the whole of labour market issues. For the government, it is not appropriate to introduce a law that limits the strike rights as regulated in Norway and in international conventions on which we are bound. We have clearly expressed that to the Commission. Together with other European countries with the same perception as us and with a single European trade union movement, we have used the space for action and spent a great deal of effort to promote our vision. The fact that the Commission has now drawn up the proposal is good. Let's be clear: this line will continue the government. It's no use building down a model that works better than most. At all times, people have moved to or from Norway. Historically, most immigrants have come from Europe. It's still like that. Following EU enlargement to the east, some 40 million more workers have become part of the internal market. Many have chosen to come to Norway. Labour immigration has contributed significantly to the growth of production and employment and thus also to the safeguarding of Norwegian well-being. In the mid-2000 high economic cycle, many Norwegian enterprises experienced a significant shortage of labour. To meet this need, we have attracted skilled labour from our own neighbourhoods. It means a lot to Norway. More than 100 000 people have moved to Norway from the EU countries just a quarter of a century ago on the other side of the Iron Curtain, especially from Poland and Lithuania. Increasingly, these people live and work in Norway permanently or for longer periods, as opposed to seasonal workers. We know that countries such as Poland and the Baltic States have demographic challenges and declining population numbers, among other things. as a result of major emigration. Norwegian farms are established in all these countries. They contribute to creating jobs and increasing value creation on the other side of the Baltic Sea. And this is not just about traditional foreign investment; more and more enterprises have activities both in Norway and in these countries that integrate their activities more closely. In Norway, we have a way to go before we discover all the possibilities of free movement of people and goods in Europe. However, there are now large and knowledgeable Polish, Baltic and other environments in Norway that are accelerating the process and provide us with better benefits from the opportunities available. At the same time, the increase in labour migration after the EU enlargement in 2004 has also led to increased challenges in ensuring decent working life without social dumping in Norway. The government has addressed these challenges through, for example: two action plans with a series of new measures to combat social dumping. We will continue this work with unimpaired strength. The migration of labour from former Eastern bloc countries is a clear and unique illustration of how directly Norway is also affected by the EU as a historical integration and welfare project. The Nobel Committee awarded the 2012 Peace Prize to the EU for the reasons ‘the successful struggle for peace and reconciliation and for democracy and human rights. The stabilising role played by the EU has helped to transform most of Europe from a war to a continent of peace.’ Norway has chosen to stand outside the EU. At the same time, on several occasions, Stortinget has recognised the historical importance of the European integration process – not least in the light of our own dependence on stability and democracy in Europe. There are different views about the peace prize distribution, including here at Stortinget. For my part, however, I would say that this was a maximum price earned. The arrival of the peace prize, in the midst of one of Europe’s greatest crises, can in addition inspire those who are trying to bring the EU back to smear waters, which will benefit both our citizens and ourselves. I have pointed out the importance of a common labour market for the welfare of Norway and Europe. EEA cooperation allows us to study, work and visit other EEA countries freely. Schengen cooperation is primarily an instrument for the practical implementation of the free movement of persons. The aim is to make it easier to use the possibilities offered by the EEA Agreement. Without personal checks at borders between Schengen countries, it is easier for everyone to travel from one country to another. It's positive. However, there are also some challenges associated with effective external border control and the fight against cross-border crime. These are not challenges arising from the Schengen system. But without internal border controls, international cooperation becomes even more important than it would otherwise have been. Norway's participation in Schengen cooperation gives us a number of opportunities for increased cross-border cooperation, such as: through the Schengen Information System and participation in the EU Border Control Agency, Frontex. Norway's participation in Schengen cooperation makes it easier to reach further agreements with the EU on participation in their anti-crime measures outside Schengen cooperation. I would like, among other things: Please mention our participation in Europol and Eurojust, the cooperation between the Colleges of Police, the Prüm Cooperation and our parallel agreement with the European arrest warrant. In the fight against organised crime, we depend on good cooperation with our European partners. It is in our own interest to contribute to more effective police action against organised crime in Europe. We contribute through the EEA funds. But Schengen also gives us the opportunity to cooperate with the other European countries in addressing these challenges. I would also like to mention some relevant EEA issues of particular importance for Norway. The development of the internal market is high on the EU agenda. Through its internal market action plans in 2011 and 2012, called Single Market Acts I and II, the European Commission has presented twelve priority areas of action with particular growth potential in two rounds. Norway has actively participated in the processes around both Internal Market messages, and we will continue to follow developments closely. We have promoted what we believe will contribute to increased value creation in the EEA, with enhanced growth and competitiveness on the one hand and safeguarding the social dimension on the other. Good governance of the internal market is a key instrument for stimulating greater well-being, growth and employment. By increasing knowledge of the internal market, businesses, citizens and consumers can also benefit better from the opportunities available. Secure access to energy is a prerequisite for the development of a stable economy and a safe working life. More than most other countries, Norway can use renewable sources to meet energy needs. This was the background for Norway to reach a specific agreement with the EU on how the renewable directive would be implemented in the EEA by 2020. In June of this year, the Commission presented a Communication on different renewable energy strategies beyond 2020, including carbon market developments, renewable energy deployment and energy efficiency improvement. We will take an active part in this debate. The growing interest of the EU in energy policy has led to many new legislative acts in this area. The energy nation Norway follows closely. The development of the internal energy market continues in the EU and the EEA. The government is now actively working on the so-called third energy market package, where we are adding some adaptations to the integration into the EEA Agreement. The European Commission has proposed to strengthen EU cooperation in energy infrastructure. I am pleased that Norway is invited on a temporary basis to the regional groups that are already established. These may play a central role in the selection of projects of common interest. Another initiative that may have an impact on Norway is a new directive to promote energy efficiency improvement. The Directive is now much more flexible in relation to possible national adaptations than it originally was. The Government now assesses the EEA relevance of this Directive and we will come back to the case before the European Parliament Committee of the European Parliament. The main principle of the EEA Agreement is to ensure equal treatment and predictability of actors operating in the internal market. This is clearly stated in Section 1 of the Agreement. Norway is well served to ensure consistent practice, and we are working to ensure equal treatment when new legal acts are incorporated. These are issues that, for example, have been addressed in the Regulation on a legal framework for a common research infrastructure, the so-called ERIC Regulation – European Research Infrastructure Consortium. This is about increasing the use of agencies and supervision in general in the EU system, as we are discussing in the communication to the Stortinget on the EEA Agreement and Norway’s other agreements with the EU. At the same time, we must be offensive and do what we can to participate in the drafting of legislation that concerns us. The Government will contribute to the formulation and promotion of Norwegian interests as early as possible and as clearly as possible. We are working to ensure Norwegian opportunities to influence EU regulatory design at all stages, in line with the EEA Agreement's assumptions. I would like to mention an example here, namely the government's work on the Deposit Guarantee Directive. Here we have an ongoing effort to get an impact on Norwegian views. Let me remind you that with effect from 1 January 2011, the EU will establish a new supervisory structure in the field of financial markets. This will strengthen the supervision of the entire European financial sector and improve the conditions for financial stability. These objectives are also important for Norway, with our open economy, strong links with EU countries through the financial sector and large foreign investment. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway will be able to take part in the work of the new bodies. The three new supervisory authorities for the banking industry, insurance and occupational pension schemes and for securities and markets respectively may impose binding obligations on national authorities and individual market actors. This raises several issues related to the two-pillar structure and transnationality of the EEA Agreement. These have been the subject of thorough investigations, but we have not reached agreement with the EU on how the relevant acts are to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Participation in EU programmes is an important part of our cooperation with the EU. The preparations for the next EU programming period are now under way, from 2014 to 2020. The government is following this process closely, and we are assessing Norwegian participation in over 15 programmes in a number of areas. The Framework Programme for Research and Technology is the largest of these programmes in the EEA context. This represents about 70 pst. of our contribution to EEA programme cooperation. So let me say a little bit about that particular field. The next Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, differs from the previous Framework Programme by consistently focusing on research and innovation. It places greater emphasis on research on global societal challenges. This involves more funds for areas such as the environment, climate and energy, which are highly priority in Norwegian research. This means that we have a potential for higher participation. Horizon 2020 has been proposed with a budget of EUR 87.7 billion, which today is approximately NOK 655 billion. This is an increase from the EUR 50.5 billion of the 7th Framework Programme, which is approximately NOK 377 billion. If the final budget is in line with the proposal, Norwegian participation will lead to a significant increase in the Norwegian quota. This programme proposal is now under discussion in the Council of the European Union and in the European Parliament. The outcome of the budget negotiations is uncertain at present. Of course, we have to decide on Norwegian participation and on the question of inclusion in the EEA Agreement, but we have to wait for the EU decision before we can present the matter to the Stortinget. The Horizon 2020 Framework Programme shall contribute to the realisation of the European Research Area, ERA. The aim is to create a kind of internal market with the free movement of researchers, ideas, technology – also called ‘fifth freedom’. The Lisbon Treaty of 2009 obliges Member States to implement ERA through stronger coordination of national, regional and European research. As an associated country, Norway has from the outset participated in ERA on a voluntary basis. Horizon 2020 aims to contribute to the development of ERA financially through support for joint programmes and, where appropriate, infrastructure projects. The Government will return to this ERA cooperation in relation to the issue of participation in Horizon 2020 and in the announced Research Communication. I initially said that democracy has poor growth conditions where people have weakened their faith in the future. The crisis has led to social unrest and economic uncertainty. It is increasingly clear that in Europe we are experiencing a pressure against the confidence of elected democratic institutions. The threat of more extreme political forces sparks fear. And fear is nourished both by the development of some of the most crisis-affected countries and by our close European history. At the same time, the crisis presents problems that were already there in the past. And this must not be forgotten: corruption and weak governance have long been a challenge in many places in Europe. We must recognise that such problems are not only among the consequences of the crisis, but also among its causes. There is a growing recognition in Europe that we must again be prepared to fight for democratic standards and that we may have taken too much too much for granted. This also applies internally in the EU. My German colleague, Minister for Foreign Affairs Guido Westerwelle, recently called in a chronicle in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung to set up a new mechanism to safeguard democratic values in the Member States. These are issues at the heart of the European project: ensuring stable democracies in Europe. It requires a common understanding of what this means. Such a common understanding already exists. The European Convention on Human Rights and several instruments within the framework of the Council of Europe are our pan-European reference points. The Copenhagen criteria were developed during the former Eastern European membership process and oblige the EU Member States. However, the need for an instrument to ensure that countries comply with these criteria is in itself a worrying sign. I will briefly mention some of the developments we follow with particular vigilance. Developments in Hungary were also discussed in the previous report. The situation in which there is no less cause for concern now. The right-hand extreme Jobbik is still strong. The Fidesz government is using a popular majority to implement a policy we believe violates democratic principles in several areas. This applies, inter alia, to: the independence of the judiciary and the ability of the media to play their own role. In Romania, the internal political power struggle has crossed borders that threaten the position of major democratic institutions. Again, this applies in particular to the judiciary. In Greece we see increasing upsurges of extreme parties on both wings and increasing political motivated violence. Outside the EU, Belarus has again experienced a far-reaching parliamentary elections. New EU sanctions have been introduced. The recent elections to a new national assembly in Ukraine followed mainly international standards, but it still has major democratic challenges. The election observers had a number of serious comments on the election campaign. And the two leading opposition politicians Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lutsenko are still in prison, without any opportunity to participate in the elections. We have repeatedly urged Ukraine to carry out judicial reforms and comply with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. This is what we're going to keep going. We are concerned about the development of Russia. Civil society and opposition in the country have become more difficult, and the authorities impose restrictions on freedom of expression. This development is a threat to the young democracy of Russia and raises questions as to whether it is able to fulfil its obligations as a member of the Council of Europe and of the OSCE. We address these concerns with Russia both bilaterally and multilaterally and continue to follow developments closely. The development of democracy and human rights in parts of Europe is worrying, and we are particularly closely following this development. Let me highlight three aspects in particular. First of all, evolution is also most important to us. Ensuring respect for democracy and human rights in Europe, including minority rights, is a core Norwegian interest. We are therefore actively promoting democracy and human rights in the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the UN, through EEA funds and directly in our political dialogue with individual countries. A more problematic human rights and democracy situation also makes it necessary to intensify and strengthen all this work. The EU has become an important partner here. This applies in particular to non-EEA countries such as Belarus and Ukraine, but also in relation to problematic migration in individual EEA countries. Here, EU institutions have a critical role as guarantors and drivers in enforcing democratic standards and human rights. Secondly, we must assume that the construction of functioning democratic states in Europe is a continuing project. It means that we can not only deal with the acute problems, we also need to focus on the underlying processes, such as corruption, governance and the involvement of all groups in society. Thirdly, all of this points to the need to support a living and autonomous civil society. Through the EEA funds, Norway is among the largest contributors to the funding of civil society in the central European and Baltic EU countries. A large proportion of these funds are aimed at democracy and human rights issues, including the situation of minorities such as Europe's space population. This is a major contribution, which gives us an influence in the important development of civil society in these countries. Also in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, we are a significant contributor to civil society that fights for democracy and human rights. Despite the uncertainty and unrest that the crisis in Europe brings, we must not lose sight of the initiatives taken to improve the situation in the short and long term. Historically, we see that crises have forced new solutions in EU cooperation. The EU is now taking new steps to deal with the economic crisis and may result in changes of a fundamental and lasting nature, new forms of cooperation and new institutions. Whatever the outcome, no matter what the future EU will look like, one thing is certain – it will affect Norway to a large extent. I can assure you that we are following this development closely, including: by strengthening European political research by 20 p.m., as proposed by the government in the 2013 State Budget. Meanwhile, we serve Norwegian interests best by providing security and predictability in our relationship with European cooperation. It means an ongoing active European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e350	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e366	Increased trade, closer economic integration between countries and the reduction of trade barriers are some of the prerequisites for economic growth. Growth in wealth in large parts of the world, not least in Europe in the post-war period, is a good illustration of this. The idea and the idea that trade and economic relations should be both peace-making and economic growth through the eradication of borders and integration in an obliging community was first expressed through the Coal and Steel Union, and continued through the work that has gradually resulted in the EU we see today, with ever closer cooperation. Norway, with its association through the EEA, participates in the community in its own way, not in full, but in the spirit of the community, the idea of the free movement of people, goods, capital and services, we are also solidly planted within. Former Prime Minister and head of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, wrote in the Evening Post on Sunday 11 November when he remembered the victims of two major world wars in Europe: ‘It is, after all, less logical and wise to start war against people to whom goods are sold or from whom goods are purchased.’ There is no revolutionary world view or anything new in that quote. But it may be good to be reminded, even in the daily processes and in the daily trade policy to be pursued in our country with our open economy. I think it's such that the view from Strasbourg and northwards can clearly occasionally shine as something clearer than the other road. And that is what is the theme of this interpellation: a debate on our basic attitude to both the trading partners in the EU and to the world, that we are just where the former prime minister of the Labour Party describes it, namely in the obliging community, a little on the sideline with our specific relationship through the EEA Agreement, perhaps on the exchange bench, but definitely not in a hidden spectator's seat. We are and should be participants and not spectators in this community. Now it wasn't about the transition to the percentage of some agricultural products the germ of some new world war, although some reactions here at home to the fact that some, and especially the Right, were at all protesting, were quite audible. The reason for our resistance to customs increases has been explained, among other things. by the Minister for Foreign Affairs as general agricultural resistance and resistance to import protection. That's not right. We state in our alternative agricultural message that import protection is very important for Norwegian agriculture, but we have not said anything about our being in favour of increases – on the contrary, we believe that efforts should be made to reduce customs barriers between countries, to liberalise trade over time precisely in the spirit of our trade agreements within the WTO, not least the EEA Agreement. That is why the Government's proposal for a transition to a percentage duty updated this debate. The proposal was very poorly received in the EU. There have been strong reactions from several countries. I have recorded that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Agriculture can tell the media that the reactions are not really so strong, and that countermeasures are not relevant. But the subtitles aren't that positive. The Norwegian position is generally dissimilar in view of the intentions that our partners believe include: The EEA Agreement contains: The Minister of Agriculture met the Agriculture Commissioner in the EU the other day, and, according to Ciolos’ spokesman after the meeting with the Norwegian Minister of Agriculture, the Commissioner must have been extremely disappointed by what he called the protectionist measures from Norway on cheese and meat. He also stated in the EEA Agreement that the long-term relationship must be maintained by both parties. I record that these statements were met by the representative of the Norwegian Government, i.e. the Minister of Agriculture, almost with a shoulder pull in the hall afterwards and with a comment that nothing new came up. But this must have been done, because the tone of the government has been that the EU's resistance has almost begun after a strong influence from the Norwegian opposition and that the EU itself would not have such a negative attitude towards unilateral measures. I find that this is not the case. So you think we have the juxtaposition on our side in the specific case of increases. Just that, the Right has not doubted in a moment, nor given the expression, but the Jus is not always politics, and I don't think there's any reason to sharpen the legal knives too much. They can also be used by our partners the other way. Managers of Norwegian fisheries organisations have almost been ridiculed when they have been concerned about sanctions or penalties. Of course, the law prevents penalties in respect of the pure customs duties on Norwegian fish compared to the EU and the EEA, but probably not in respect of countries outside this area. There are also other countries that have currency fluctuations in their obligations and customs duties under the WTO Agreement. On the fisheries side, we also have a different relationship that requires a good spirit and tone than the pure trade agreements. We have different quota arrangements for the export of seafood that compensate for some of the customs duties. Several of them are temporary. It is to be negotiated, the so-called bilateral compensation quotas renegotiated every five years will soon be negotiated. Then we're talking about market access for herring and mackerel. New negotiations will probably start early in 2013 with the growth of the cheese tolls as a backstop. At the previous crossroads, this was a work that had been delayed for various reasons by the Commission for up to one and a half years. Similarly, we have the autonomous quotas and industrial quotas for the EU's industrial production of fish that are also soon to begin. There we depend on others as well. Then, of course, the trend towards increased trade and the reduction of customs barriers does not have to go too fast. It must be kept in balance with the interests of competitive industries. There is no doubt that trade liberalisation can weaken agricultural production, but on the other hand it can strengthen food security by increasing the world's food supply and interdependence in the food sector. Although agricultural production in Norway could be weakened in the long term, food security would still have been strong at internal level because of our considerable fish surplus, which, combined with a shift in the use of instruments in agricultural policy, could have increased production. But with increases in customs unilaterally at a time when Europe is down for counting, which the Foreign Minister was also involved in his presentation, although he did not exactly use those words, this was condemned to call for great reactions. I must conclude by saying that Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide has done the best thing before this interpellation: a significant tribute to Europe, to the EU and to the EEA. It's enough to mention expressions like Europe is here. I fully agree with that, but Europe is also there, and we must not forget that. When he says that domestic policy and foreign policy are interrelated, I also agree quite well. This too has a reference to the matter we have discussed in Norway on domestic policy on customs increases and on the importance it has in our relationship with the EU and under the EEA Agreement. When he uses expressions like this to affect us all, that there are our brothers and sisters down there in Europe, it is absolutely impossible to be anything but agree, because we who come from the Right like that kind of statement, but we also like to put reality and practice behind the words. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that you would be exposed to the reactions that our brothers and sisters have made to this particular matter. It's not like jus is just jus here too. It's just reading what Professor Sejersted, expert on EU law, says about this. So, the intentions of the EEA Agreement – in particular Article 19 – on the liberalisation of trade over time clearly point to the need to contribute to this reduction from both sides. That is why I have to say that, after the brilliant introduction to the presentation to Barth Eide here today, it is with interest that I look forward to his views on exactly this domestic policy issue of customs growth and what it will entail for our relationship with Europe, and – not least – what the Foreign Minister himself can do about it, if he thinks that it is necessary to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e401	I would like to thank the representative Fleet for the interpellation and the opportunity to elaborate on a question that has been of great interest in recent times. As the representative also stated, I have just gone through the overall ambitions of European policy through the presentation of key EU and EEA issues, and I am pleased to note that the representative expresses agreement on the broad lines of what was said. There we are just saying that for the government, the EEA Agreement is firm, it is and will continue to be the basis of Norwegian European policy. All parties to the EEA Agreement consider it to be mutually beneficial. It is in the interest of the parties to develop it further. It gives Norwegian workers, enterprises and institutions access to the internal market on equal terms with their counterparts in the EU. All of this is solid. This is a message that is clearly communicated to our cooperation partners in the EU. They are the subject of the EEA Agreement and the commitments it sets will continue to underpin Norway’s European policy. Then it is that agricultural policy is not part of the EEA. It is laid down in Article 8 of the EEA Agreement. The need for own Norwegian production of agricultural products has wide support in Stortinget, as we have just heard. It is also widely agreed that production cannot take place without effective import protection and financial support. Norway is not alone international in supporting its own agricultural production. Many countries – not least in the EU – support agriculture. This is precisely done through customs protection and other financial support on the basis of natural and economic assumptions for production. The EU regime and the Norway regime are in a relatively similar structure, but the level of support is known to be higher in us. When we look at the natural assumptions for agricultural production in countries such as Norway and Denmark, it is not difficult to understand why. And when, for example, Denmark has responded to our proposal to introduce a percentage duty, and it is primarily a legitimate expression that a Danish government promotes Danish agricultural interests, just as it is our job to work for Norwegian interests. At the same time, Norway is a strong, consistent supporter of an agreement-based international trading system at global and European level. Norway participates actively and constructively in negotiations. We are loyally following up our commitments in the WTO and the EEA Agreement. This also applies to Article 19 of the EEA Agreement on basic agricultural products and Protocol 3 on processed agricultural products. In the domestic political debate, we may have different opinions on the dosage and device of import protection, but there is less disagreement about the need for import protection and that this is central to agricultural policy — yes, in fact, a prerequisite for farming in Norway. This has been the case for many years, regardless of the colours of governments. The Government's proposal introduces a percentage of 2 out of a total of 14 customs lines for cheese and for certain lamb and beef fillets. I am pleased that the representative Fleet also believes that this is not going to create a new world war. It is suggested that 14 oysters, which today fall below the two toll lines, are taken out and keep today's NOK 27 per kilogram. Our proposal could initially affect about 1 600 tonnes of current imports of cheese from the EU that total about 9 000 tonnes. The government’s view is that this change will have limited economic importance for the EU in both the short and medium term, precisely because the fixed and semi-solid cheeses concerned will be imported into the EU within the duty-free quota. So for meat: in recent years there have been no imports from the EU of lamb at full customs duty, while imports of beef and veal have been minimal, at about 17 tonnes. In other words, the economic impact on the EU of the proposed conversion will be small. For developing countries, the government has proposed a quota for imports from GSP countries of about 500 tonnes, which is twice the level of imports in 2011. This would provide these countries with good opportunities for continued growth in the export of meat to Norway. In view of this, there are some who ask, including the representative Fleet: Why does the government propose a conversion? The reason is that it will provide increased room for action in the agricultural business and in the negotiations with Norwegian farmers in the years to come. Today's krone duty means that imports at full customs duty are soon competitive with Norwegian cheese production. So there's been a fall in the level of protection because the dollar has been constant. A further reduction in the real customs value could have a major impact on traditional Norwegian cheese production such as Norvegia and Jarlsberg. Agricultural policy is not part of the EEA Agreement as mentioned. However, the Agreement contains in Article 19 provisions designed to facilitate trade in agricultural products as well. Representatives of the EU have shown this in their criticism of the government’s proposals. In particular, the Article provides that the parties are to endeavour to achieve continued liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. Let me therefore underline: this is a particular government that has followed up and will continue to follow up. There have been negotiations between the EU and Norway with reference to Article 19 in several rounds. The latest liberalising measures came into force on 1 January 2012. This liberalisation provided for by the article can be clearly seen from the trade figures. EU exports of agricultural products to Norway have increased by over 150 pst. since 2000, from 10.7 billion. NOK 2000 to SEK 27.1 billion. kr in 2011. The slope has been even. Almost 70 pst. of our total agricultural imports are coming from the EU today. One aspect that the debate has not highlighted is the provision in the article that liberalisation should take place within the framework of the respective agricultural policies of the EU and Norway. As mentioned above, Norwegian agricultural policy is based on strong customs protection. This is a prerequisite for maintaining our agriculture. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement also states that the parties should take into account the results of the Uruguay Round. The result of this round meant that Norway could choose — about 48 pst. of the agricultural toll lines - between Kronotoll and Percent Customs. When implemented in 1995, the Stortinget chose to introduce a krone duty on most customs lines. At the same time, the government said that a conversion to a percentage duty could be applicable if the customs protection would prove inadequate with a krona dollar. The recent agreement between Norway and the EU on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products states that the parties are to ensure that the advantages they confer in the agreement are not jeopardised by other restrictive measures. The government's proposal for conversion will not threaten the concessions Norway has granted to the EU. The EU duty-free quota on cheese of a total of 7 200 tonnes is not affected. The EU duty-free quota for meat of 900 tonnes is maintained. This proposed conversion does not change our willingness to follow up our WTO and EEA obligations. We have underlined this to the EU and our main trading partners in the EU, both at expert level and at political level. Last time I did it myself during the Nordic Council session in Helsinki a few weeks ago. Minister of Agriculture and Food, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, met the European Commissioner for Agriculture on 7 November. At the EEA Council meeting on 26 November in Brussels, I will explain the conversion and the limited impact it will have on EU export opportunities both in the short and medium term.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e445	I thank you for your answer. What is new in what we hear today from the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that it is no longer the home opposition who bears the responsibility for this matter, and I am glad that Minister for Foreign Affairs Barth Eide does not repeat from the Chair of the United Kingdom, because I do not think that is the case; I think it is quite real reactions from the European Union to what was done. Then the Foreign Minister has gone through a number of technicalities about agricultural policy that I know well from before, but it may be good to get them fixed. I believe that the central point here is Article 19 and the spirit and intention of the parties to it, including in relation to trade in agricultural products. That's what's been the dilemma here, because there's no doubt that even if you have the legal side, the reactions have been negative. I referred in my first post to the last visit of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Slagsvold Vedum. Now we don't know the exact record from that meeting, we only know what's being said at the time, but it's quite clear that this isn't being received positively. That is why I think it is so much positive from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he has now clearly abandoned the debate with us and rather looks forward to what he can do to perhaps repair what has happened, but also to stick to the agreements that have actually been, and to bring them further into the talks you are going to have with the European Union. Because there is no doubt that intentions, spirit and overall goals of cooperation are very important. That is why, in my first speech, I gave so much attention to the foreign minister Barth Eide also started with, i.e. the tribute to Europe: how important it is that we are in, that we have a good relationship, and that we know that this should work both ways. That's exactly why it might have been an idea if you had had a few preliminary talks and perhaps prepared our brothers and sisters – I think we should stick to that terminology today – on what is going to happen. It may be wise to inform the sibling in good time of bad news.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e460	I will first return the compliment and say that I am happy that the fleet now also declares that we agree that the government has its own right on the dry legal basis. It is also the clear impression we have had in our talks with the EU. So, as I said in my post, we are acting within the framework of the legislation in force, both in terms of the WTO and the EEA. Article 19 has a declaration of intent that we have followed up and that we continue to follow up. It is not stated in Article 19 that no single adjustment can be made in the opposite direction, but the main direction is to go from smaller to more liberalized use of products in this area as well. It has happened, and it is going to continue to happen. So you take a simple decision and use it as an illustration of an entire trend, while the consistent, demonstrable, statistically documented trend goes the opposite way. This is the general practice of not advertising measures related to the State budget until the state budget is presented. I think that is an established practice that also applies to partners outside Norway. In any case, there is an alert time for when this action actually takes place. I want to add to the fleet representative that I voted in favour of the EU, and if it were to show up a new occasion, I would vote it again. I believe in Norwegian membership of the European Union, and I think I share that with the representative of the Fleet. But it was not the EU's common agricultural policy that made me most enthusiastic about the EU. There are aspects of EU cooperation that impress more than what has been achieved in the field of agricultural policy. If there is something that concerns me relatively little, there are possible attempts to teach from the EU not to have import protection and subsidies, because there is a widespread phenomenon both in rich Norway and in the rich EU compared to the world out there. So this is a mild adjustment within a main framework that has worked for many years, and I think we should be able to handle that. So it is quite right that it has been expressed specifically by the Danish and Swedish teams, and also by the Commission, both questions and scepticism for this, but I can also reveal that it is not the first time Norway and the EU have a discussion with different views, and there are also cases where EU countries have different views on the policy to be pursued in the EU/EEA area. It's part of normal inter-country rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e473	Repeatedly since the budget was presented, we have heard the claim that increasing customs duties on agricultural products in order to protect Norwegian agriculture will result in more difficult market access. At first it was for fish, and through today’s interpellation, the representative Fleeten has extended the poverty description to all Norwegian trade with Europe. The fleet says at the same time that we have the juice on our side. The fundamental question is: why is it that the Right spends so much time promoting the interests of the EU and the EU? Agriculture is exempted from the EEA Agreement. The EU protects its agriculture with customs duties from outside Europe. Norway has the freedom of action to do what we do under both the WTO and the EEA Agreement. Import protection is very important in agricultural policy. One should not travel very much on Norwegian farms until one sees that the assumptions of nature, access to food, the expensive production of food in Norway and Norwegian pay and working conditions make import protection absolutely necessary for the farmer to get a viable price for his products. The question that Norwegian farmers have to ask is what kind of agricultural policy a possible civil majority would lead to. Will a removed import protection and cut the subsidies, as the Progress Party wants and the Right is obviously now in the process of accepting? Will the Christian People's Party and the Left sacrifice the Norwegian peasant to be allowed to sit around the King's table? When we change the rates of customs duties for some products from krone to percentage duty, it is important for lamb producers in Sogndal and Hallingdal, for cattle farmers in Rogaland and for milk producers in Buskerud and across the country. There is also something Norwegian consumers can actually live with. It is a fact that Norwegian agriculture and fisheries are very different, but so is the EU. We use our forts in the same way that the EU does in our trade with each other. It's in our common interest. There is no contradiction between the protection of individual areas by one country, in this case Norway, and trade with others. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also said that in a very good way. All EU countries protect certain products, and this is acceptable to them. I also want to say that as an EU member and strong defender of the EEA Agreement, I and the Labour Party can live well with what we are doing here in the area of agricultural policy, because it is important for us and for the Norwegian farmer. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have recently taken the Smoky Party against workers in the fishing industry. They have taken the party of the European Union against the Norwegian farmer. I think people in District Norway should notice that. It is sad to see that the right whips up the mood and runs the EU's agenda by promoting the link between general trade and agriculture, paradoxically contrary to Norwegian interests. It is a connection that the representative Fleet itself admits does not exist in a single formal agreement, and that should actually be well known to the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e490	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for taking up an important matter. To just join that both the representative Fleet and, in part, the Minister for Foreign Affairs were concerned: there are very few who have asked questions about the legality of what has been done, but the question is whether you should use the entire space of action you actually have in these matters. So you've tried to minimize a little bit what these changes are about. Then it might be good to look at these percentages, because with regard to the conversion of customs duties on beef – that is, the fillet of cattle – that rate will now go up to 344 pst. In the case of lamb – so-called whole and half lambs’ lettuce – and solid and semi-solid cheeses, the rate of duty for lambs’ meat is 429 pst, while the rate for cheeses is 277 pst. It may well be – as was said here, and as I stand behind – that you have the opportunity to do so under the WTO. It's okay. But what is the question is which signals you send to, among other things. The EU, because through the agricultural agreement, Norway has a system in which we subsidise Norwegian exports of Jarlsberg cheese in the hundreds of millions. We have now also had a situation where we also subsidise Norwegian exports of pigmeat to Ukraine. The same persons are to introduce higher rates of duty for imports of goods into Norway. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement has been referred to, and Article 19 of the EEA Agreement states, inter alia. the following: «The Contracting Parties shall continue their efforts with a view to the gradual liberalisation of trade in agricultural products.» The Minister of Foreign Affairs, particularly in his follow-up, pointed out some of what has happened. It's absolutely right that we have quotas for cheeses of 7,200 tons, we have quotas for beef on some tons. But in the future we will also have to renegotiate the parallel agreements that Norway has with regard to fisheries. I really believe and hope that these things don't get the big effect in the long term. We have to do that job. But the signal effect is poor, because we are going to enter into some negotiations, and it is clear that our partners, who see Norway putting stronger restrictions on one field, will have it in mind when Norway comes and they are going to negotiate in their fields. Then they can also say that they have the full opportunity of doing so through WTO legislation. So it's clear that the EU can also change its rates and go from crown to percentage to raise its rates. But the question is whether that's what we want. It is precisely the signal effect that is serious about this matter, and it is precisely the part that makes the government should withdraw this proposal, especially because we have seen some from the government express – among other things. the Minister of Agriculture – that this has little or no effect. Yes, even in the context of the State budget, there is no statement that there is any proceeds. Then the question is, why is it so important to implement this particular measure, which is seen to cause so much anxiety and frustration? This is not the case, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in an interview in a newspaper, that one had to be careful about criticising this, because it could be troubling in words – a very special statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think that if this can cause problems, it is not the opposition that has created problems, but it is the government itself. I really hope it doesn't get the consequences you can fear. We have to work on this, all of us. We also have to do that from the opposition, because it is very important for Norwegian businesses that we get our goods exported, for example. into the EU, which accounts for such a large proportion of Norwegian fish exports. But we also have to expect the government not to put these problems – and even more – on us, as they have done in this matter. A symbol thing, the government itself says, but it's an important symbol thing – in a negative direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e504	Increased trade is in Norwegian interest. The strong increase in wealth seen by parts of the world after World War II is largely due to increased trade and closer economic integration. In fact, the countries with the highest economic growth are also the countries that have developed their trade most. Thus, there is a strong link between trade and economic growth. The Norwegian economy is again very export oriented. This means that the economic situation in Norway depends largely on developments in the world economy. Since the world economy is flourishing in times of increased economic relations, Norway, as well as the rest of the world, will be served with increased trade. Trade also reduces poverty. More jobs give people the opportunity to work out of poverty and thus create a more even distribution. In addition, there is a mutual dependence between poverty reduction on the one hand and respect for human rights on the other. For the Right, human rights is one of the most important areas of development policy. This is "macro", which is important to include in the microdebate we now have. Then to the Norwegian conditions. Norway is the net importer of agricultural products and is thus defined as a vulnerable country when it comes to agricultural products. In 2010, we imported food and drink for 23.9 billion. kr. Exports this year are $4.5 billion. kr – in fact an increase of 10,5 pst. from 2009. In comparison, Norway exported fish for 53 billion. kr in 2010. But let there be no doubt: Right wants a Norwegian agriculture. We want to facilitate the creation of value throughout the country. To achieve this, we need a balanced import protection, and the Right agrees that import protection is an important part of Norwegian food production. However, globalisation needs to take place, and we need to assess how we can create competitiveness in Norwegian agriculture. We should focus on strengthening competitiveness rather than ‘exploiting the space for action in import protection’, as food producers’ organisations call it. The government announced in September of this year the transition from the krona to the percentage of customs duties on a number of agricultural products. In this way, the government will increase customs duties. That's not the right direction to go. Although it is also – as the interpellant was in several cases – isolated within the framework of the WTO Agreement, it is contrary to the spirit of the EEA Agreement. For the right, it is also important to safeguard the interests of consumers. We actually produce food to enable Norwegian consumers to eat saturated food on the most Norwegian-produced food if they want it. It is an freedom of choice that must be underpinned, and the freedom of choice holds right over and works for. Minister of Agriculture Slagsvold Vedum has said on several occasions that the transition from the dollar to the dollar will have no price-driven effect and will not result in fewer products to choose from for Norwegian consumers. It's fantasy, so the Minister of Agriculture is obviously in a political coercion when he believes in that kind of thing. A good illustration of this was the visit of the National Council of Slagsvold Vedum to the dining hall in Oslo. Right hopes that we will have a lot of trade negotiations in our near future, because it is in Norwegian interest to have a new WTO agreement, and it is in Norwegian interest that trade, including agricultural products, is increasing from today's level. Norway needs partners in this type of discussion. So it means a lot what kind of symbols we use, and what kind of symbols form the basis of Norwegian policy. For Norway, with the exception of fish, the maximum price of food, non-alcoholic and alcoholic beverages is found throughout Europe. The reason is, of course, complex, but one reason is the Norwegian objective of the protection of certain agricultural products. This protection has a cost transferred to the consumer. A restriction on agricultural protection will reduce the cost to the consumer, in addition to being able to increase the range of products. On the right, we believe that we need a careful assessment of the cost of our trade policy to Norwegian consumers in terms of increased prices and reduced sample sizes. Let there be no doubt that it is in Norwegian interest to increase trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e523	We know that Norway is a long country. It's a cold country – it's a country far north. At best, we have about 150 growing days in Norwegian food production. For example, in southern Sweden, in Skåne, at least 220 growth days. So it's hard to produce food in this country. In addition, compared to Sweden, the compensation of employees is at least 25 pst. lower than in Norway. So despite shielding, Norwegian food production is also highly competitive. We can only mention competition for expensive labour and international prices of raw materials, which this industry is also facing. Customs protection is therefore one of the pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy. That's good there's agreement on that. It is essential that we maintain and increase food production throughout the country. It was therefore essential to modernise customs duties on agricultural products, which were in the process of being competed with cheaper goods from abroad. Without effective customs protection, Norwegian food production would, of course, be inconvenient in competition with goods produced in a country with completely different conditions for farming. All the time there is cross-political agreement on the maintenance of agriculture – some of us even have ambitions that the industry will develop and produce more of the amazing food appreciated by the Nordics – must also agree on the importance of strong customs protection. The interpellant refers to the export-oriented industry. We agree that is important. Nor should we forget the business that is based on the domestic market. Without Norwegian raw material production, very many of the 40 000-50000 jobs in the food industry are at risk. Therefore, farmers have not been alone in demanding more effective customs protection, they have had broad support both in the LO system and in large parts of the NHO. Some later, as if we have selfish motives, and that our attitudes toward trade in food weaken agriculture in the south. We're called protectionist, but I want to stress that this criticism comes from outside. It is in the domestic debate that we have seen the strongest reactions to the Norwegian authorities defending Norwegian interests. So we can ask ourselves, how dramatic are the customs changes? Does this mean that Norwegian consumers will end up with a narrow selection of Jarlsberg and Norvegia cheese? Is it at the end of French oysters at the store – of which some media have erroneously created a picture? It is sad that Norwegian consumers have been fed with information that is directly incorrect. It is not Camembert, Brie or Roquefort who have been given increased customs duties. In fact, the government – and I have been on it myself – has expanded the quota for duty-free imports from 4,500 to 7,200 tonnes. It gives room for many shelf meters with exciting oysters in the shops. So it's not the special cheeses that pull up the volume – it's the volumes for which the customs change is calculated. These are the ones that threaten the Norwegian cheese. Last year we imported 52 tons of Roquefort and 568 tons of white cheese, to name that example. Right-wing fears not only that the range of shops should be reduced – they are also concerned about counter-reactions due to customs changes in agricultural products. I guess that's the most important thing in the discussion today. I believe that – and the government believes it – that there should be little reason for that. We have good legislation here that ensures predictability in market access. The EEA Agreement regulates the issue of customs duties on seafood for the EU. This also obliges the EU, which cannot change customs duties on its own grounds. When the opposition is concerned about Norway, the export of seafood is at risk, despite the fact that it is now seen to be within the scope of the kiss – as was stated here today – I believe that there is reason to recall that the changes have been made under the WTO legislation. This is a regulation that the Right has also voted for in its time. As an exporting seamate, we should be the first to stress that we are totally dependent on a well-functioning international agreement that the WTO agreement there gives us. The answer is that the right must stop holding hands in relation to the relationship with the EU. National and Norwegian business interests must be given priority to the right over EU business. Norway has to put away the naivety we have in trade policy. Trade policy is characterized by bone-hard realism, and that also means that we have to have an opportunity to exploit the space of action contained in the agreements we have. It also applies in customs matters. The government does. It's the Center Party occupied. It also does so for all other countries involved in trade policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e546	The formal legislation and the reasons put forward by the government to do what is now proposed, to go from krone to percentage, have been excellently explained. It is well within the regulatory framework, and it is well in coexistence with the EU itself on similar products. I would like to recommend to the Right representatives, perhaps, specifically to read this record – perhaps several times – in order to gain an understanding of it. The EU is the world's largest exporter. Every day they export more than 100 million. euro. In that picture, what we're talking about now is, very modestly, to say it mildly. For Norway, which is the sixth largest single EU market — we import agricultural products for a total of 40 billion, 27 billion. come from the EU – the importance of maritime food exports is being drawn up. Yes, it amounts to EU 30,5 billion. kr. In that sense, one might say that we actually have an approximate trade balance with the imports of agricultural products we have from the EU, and the seafood we export to the EU. These are pretty interesting numbers based on the debate and the reality that lies here. The relationship between imports and exports Norway/EU was one to four in 1995. That was one to nine in 2011. Of course, this debate and this interpellation have a different reason than our relationship to trade. That's obvious. We are deeply concerned about good trading arrangements. Through the financial crisis and a European crisis, we have now in no way adopted any protectionist stance at all. On the contrary, we have made sure to underline the importance of what trade does. But when it comes to the core of what the Right really says -- that's what they're kind of trying to romanticize the Norwegian countryside with -- they're for the protection of imports of agricultural products. But they're no more for it than they're actually going to lower it. That is the reality. From this point of view, I think the Right Congratulation in this matter is primarily about the fact that there is no more noise in the EU, precisely against the policy that the government has chosen for Norwegian agriculture. For it is primarily about ensuring that marginal farms around the country can maintain food production. That's what this is about. That is why it is now adjusting the possibilities for protecting itself in milk and cheese products – precisely because the cheese is a battery for Norwegian milk production, and Norwegian milk production maintains Norwegian agriculture in the districts. It's glued to it. I understand very well, with the Right approach to Norwegian agricultural policy, that they see it as an advantage that import protection is weakened, precisely to ensure that they do not justify the maintenance of rural agriculture through transfers from the country. That's what they remove through their budgets every single year — the entrance to maintaining an agriculture across the country. This debate clearly has that as a starting point, I think. Although, of course, the reactions come from the EU – they want to protect their interests – it is enough that if the reactions are not stronger here, at least we have a very tendency to maintain that debate. This is an interpellation about a case that is being treated in Stortinget. If the motivation is not to keep this debate alive, then I don't understand anything. It is quite obvious that the root cause of this interpellation is that one wants to weaken the protection of imports of Norwegian agricultural products, and thus again marginalise further marginalised agriculture in the district of Norway – just to be able to stand still and say that what we want to defend is the great potential of industrialised agriculture in the central eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e565	This has become the debate in which attacks appear to have been made the best defense in a matter so thin and weak that it is not fixed in any way. It has been very, very clearly seen by both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the spokesmen of the government parties today. We had a 40-minute statement from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the principle of trade and on our contact and our relationship with Europe to which it is only to subscribe a hundred percent – more or less – and which was very good in its production. But this is also the debate in which the same foreign minister and the same Labour Party failed when the principles were to be put into practice. Turning this upside down, attacking the Right, attacking the Norwegian fishing industry, and defining the situation in Europe — where our closest trading partners are struggling economically, and where it is important for economic reasons, for employment reasons and for democratic reasons that the difficult situation can be reversed. It is obvious that the guiding principles of this policy have failed when the government was to settle the chamber. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has simply not done his job: he failed diametrically to protect the principles that are allegedly being fought for in our trade policy and our relationship with our trading partners. Once again, it has been proven that three-quarters of our exports go to Europe, that Norway is a large and open economy with over 40 pst. of our GDP is export-oriented. Then you try to minimize the effects at a time when G20 countries are doing everything they can to reduce protection — in a time to re-establish the world economy. So let's let the Central Party partner get a temporary win. One has forgotten Gro Harlem Brundtland's statement that everything is related to everything. I had at least assumed that that expression still had a certain topicality at least in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Has it been forgotten that Norwegian fishing industry has been in a 20-year conflict with the United States and 20-year conflict with Europe? Have you forgotten to pay for it? Have you forgotten the introduction of feed quotas, minimum prices, anti-doping measures? Hasn't it been taken into account that every day you carry out this particular Norwegian form of protection, with increased tariff quotas and increased customs duties, indirectly provides a lost opportunity for Coast Norway? This is what this debate is about. It should have been saved that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and representatives of the government parties are attacking the Norwegian fishing industry, attacking the Right, and saying that there is another reason for this debate. I understand that it feels uncomfortable to stand and talk in the Storting about beautiful principles for our interplay system and our trade policy with Europe, but where life and learning so fundamentally fail to give one mini-party a temporary victory within the government. It doesn't last in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e576	As an academic, sometimes there is a need to go to the sources. The sources in this context are Innst. S 65 for 1994-1995 of 13 December 1994, point 2.1.2.3 ‘In each case it is the rate of duty which gives the highest amount of customs duty to be applied at the time of entry.’; Furthermore, in the Committee's comments – this is a position of the Financial Committee, where Per-Kristian Foss was one of the representatives – it says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Red Election Alliance, indicates that Norway has submitted GATT binding lists showing both specific rates and percentage rates.’ And then it comes: ‘In each case it is the rate of duty which gives the highest amount of customs duty to be applied at the time of importation’. – to be used. Further: Innst. 290 S for 2010-2011 of 29 March 2011 by the Financial Committee on Trade in Agricultural Products, where a unanimous Committee in Article 19 states: ‘The reduction of barriers to trade shall take place on a reciprocal and advantageous basis.’ [[...]] The EU import value in 2000 was 10,654 billion. kr and amounted to 64 pst. of Norwegian agricultural imports. In 2009 it was 22.866 billion. kr, or a whole of 68 pst., i.e. a double in volume – more than double – and an increase in percentage value. What we're talking about is six toll lines – very little in relation to the hundreds of toll lines that we're talking about here – and that has very little impact on trade. Where it matters, it's in relation to today's situation on cheese. When the representative Nesvik talks about not using the whole room of action, yes, that's as true as I've been told. This does not use the full action space. So what the red-green government has done here is on a secure contractual basis. Why increased customs duties? Well, it is because it allows for increased market prices for Norwegian agricultural products. Let's do the finals. Obviously, that's the whole point. In an industry you have to have market prices that are proportionate to the cost of the industry in the country. If you don't have it, there won't be any profit. The right party is not for increased customs duties, but for liberalisation. The question to the right is, does the right go against the customs increases? Say it clearly. Let the Right say clearly that they want to reduce customs duties. It's a winner's cause for the Right, it'll be obvious to everyone who gets into the value chain that we're talking about here. The right says that one should not argue in relation to the agreements concluded. That is why the representative fleet says we should not grind legal knives. No, the legal basis is not present at all. The fact is that the Right is at the forefront of EU trade interests and is talking about these interests as brothers and sisters. There's nothing new from the Right. The right represents a trade family with international ownership in this matter. So what's at the heart of this is increasing market prices. If Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry do not increase market price opportunities, the dependence on the State budget and the state will increase. That should be the party Right Cloud as the plague. The right presents itself as a party to the commercial interests, to the commercial interests that are to live off the market, and then one is not willing to make any minor changes that make it possible to live better from market prices. It then refers to the degrees at which the right hand side stands in this case. Luckily, knowledge-rich farmers and knowledge-rich food interests know that their prospects for the future are very weakened if the Right comes to power, because this is the core of the business policy for the entire value chain that has to do with food — whether it be farmers, food industries or Norwegian food chains.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e618	For Norwegian agriculture, it is essential that the government now takes action to secure decent incomes for farmers in the future. This is essential for agriculture to be able to increase its profitability in the future. Kronetoll is at 1995 level, and how the purchasing power of Norway and the wage growth of other professional groups have developed since then, we all know that. On the other hand, the farmers have stopped at this tariff ceiling and have not been able to charge higher prices for their products even if expenditure has increased sharply. If the government hadn't taken action now, this could lead to a development in which fewer farmers would choose to produce food in Norway, and we wouldn't be able to increase food production as the population grew. This case clearly shows who is fighting the agricultural case, and who is rather concerned about defending the EU's interests over our own. It has been repeated and repeated, but obviously cannot be said too often. So what we're talking about here is a few products. It's especially the cheese that's been discussed, but the duty-free quota is larger than the one that's being imported today. I believe that both consumers in Norway and not least those who want to sell their cheese to Norway are able to live well. We have both an offensive and a defensive trade policy, and that is quite common – the European Union does too. They have e.g. 2 pst. customs duties on fresh salmon fillet, while it is 13 pst. when smoked. Ergo protects the European Union's own industry, and we will continue to do so in this country, and that is necessary. The Party Right is concerned about Norway’s relationship with our trading partners and with export industries such as the maritime food industry. The centre party considers that there is no reason to worry about, for example: the export of fish because we have good legislation here. Firstly, we have a WTO legislation, which is very important to us as a maritime nation, but we also have an EEA agreement that regulates the issues of customs duties on maritime food into the EU. There is a commitment that also obliges the EU, and they can not just turn that customs up overnight. Imports of agricultural products from the EU to Norway have doubled in the last 10 years, and before the new increased quotas entered into force on 1 January this year. Last year EU imports amounted to 27 billion. kr. In this case, therefore, the EU has the most to lose if it does not comply with international rules. The right and the representative Fleet have been worried about the violent counter-reactions they see coming throughout the whole harvest. Denmark's Trade Minister, Pia Olsen Dyhr, says she is less concerned about customs change than what the Right is. She says, ‘What Norway has done is not a breach of either the WTO Agreement or the EEA Agreement, and this does not create a deep gap in the relationship between Norway and Denmark.’ [[...]] The protection of imports is a pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy. With demanding natural conditions and high cost levels, import protection is necessary to achieve our agricultural policy objectives. In the communication on agriculture and food, the government and the Storting have committed themselves to providing better income opportunities for agriculture. This presupposes that it will also be possible to increase agricultural prices in the future. Conversion to a percentage duty will also provide room for price increases in agricultural holdings in the years to come. The proposed six toll lines represent products which are of particular importance for Norwegian agriculture and the food industry. We've also seen a strong commitment from both LO and parts of NHO on this issue. We have living industries that harvest nature throughout Norway. That's something we're very proud of in our country. That's the way it should be in the future. Therefore, the Senterpartiet is betting on a policy that ensures the Norwegian farmer and the Norwegian export industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e647	Thank you for many interesting articles on Norwegian agricultural policy, on import protection and everything that belongs to it. But with all due respect, that wasn't really what the interpellation was all about. When, in particular, the Center Party spends a lot of time in its contributions talking about a country that is far and cold and steep, and about what they need, it wasn't what was the starting point. I understand that you would like to use the opportunity to talk again about the fact that the Right has an agricultural policy that is completely useless, but I also think it is quite striking if it is that it is just by increasing customs that you can make it viable for Norwegian agriculture. The representative of Terje Aasland from the Workers' Party says that the Right really has a different starting point than what we say we have, and that this is an interpellation on matters that lie in the Stortinget. This is not an interpolation of the budget. This is not an interpellation about the customs increases. This is an interpolation of how to think about the relationship with our trading partners. It's an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if he's going to convince our trading partners that we don't want to go in a more protective direction, precisely because they've perceived this matter as we're doing it. And no one from the pulpit has said that there is no response, because it is. Fortunately, no one has said that it is the Right and the opposition parties that have pulled up this discussion here in Norway. And I really think that's the important thing that's come out of this. The entries from both the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party are, as I said, the main aim of producing Right-wing Agriculture in a poor light. But I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs – it's possible I'm too optimistic – because I think I don't know that he shares my concern, because he has said that he doesn't, but that he might have a basic attitude where keeping the spirit and tone of international trade agreements is important in addition to the purely legal thing that can be dealt with squarely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e656	I would like to thank you for an interesting and informative debate. I missed a clarification on a question that both the representative Lundteigen, Laila Gustavsen and others asked several of the representatives from the opposition. It is as if we can be clear as to whether we will actually reintroduce the krone toll – if we are supposed to end up with a majority in this room – and if we are going to reintroduce the same krone toll, because there we have empirical proof that the krone toll that has been fixed has made up an ever smaller part of the price, so that the cheese has become increasingly competitive. In the years that have passed, there has been a fall in protection that approaches the point where it no longer pays to sell, for example. Jarlsberg and Norvegia, and that other oysters, Danish and especially Swedish, will take over that market. I think it's very interesting for the voters, and not least for those related to agriculture, to know about the implications of the criticism of our action is that you want to do the opposite. You haven't answered that, despite more questions. There are no more occasions here, but these are excellent occasions if the media ask in the hiking hall, for example. So I would say that I am a fundamental member of trade and very happy to belong to a government that works proactively in the WTO and EEA to increase trade, to liberalise and to live up to the intentions we have there, including in Article 19. Several speakers from both the Labour Party and the Centre Party have pointed out that the import of agricultural products into Norway has risen sharply in recent years, including the seven years in which we have run, so we live up to that. But when you listened, for example. The representative of Kristiansen, if you came into the room without knowing what you were talking about, you might get the impression that it was not just a couple of toll lines on cheese, but almost the big deal with Norwegian European policy and Norwegian policy in general. This is an adjustment within known policies. We are structurally similar to the EU: the EU protects through subsidies and import protection, Norway protects through subsidies and import protection, and that is a marginal adjustment. That's what I want to say. I confirm that there have been concerns expressed by Swedish and Danish teams and partly EU teams, but I can also inform you that none of them – and I have met them – have at any time linked this to fishing. No one has threatened, implied or indirectly hinted that this should have anything to do with Norwegian fishing exports. I've just heard that here in Norway, and here you say what you want. But I have therefore asked how wise it is to make a point that we should almost be punished in a completely different sector, which will be directly contrary to our WTO and EEA obligations, which the EU also has towards us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e667	The debate on substance is closed. 2 has thus been completed, although it has been notified of a certain continuation in the hiking hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e683	The emergency network shall be the base wall of Norway’s preparedness. A robust common emergency network based on modern technology is an important commitment to social security and enhanced preparedness in Norway. The investment in the emergency network is significant — it is expensive — but it is also a right investment if this means that one achieves the added value originally ordered by the Stortinget. We, the Right, have talked to firemen, spies, bodyguards, medics and ambulancemen who regularly risk their lives in their work. A smoke diver at work in a burning building – yes, then the connection is his umbilical cord. It is absolutely essential to get in touch with the central office and the colleagues on the spot so that he can do his job and be as sure as possible that he gets out of the job unharmed. When we as a society ask individuals to take on a mission on our behalf, we must also be sure that, in our role, we have done what we can to give them the best possible security in the work to be done. The feedback we are now receiving – from firemen, ambulance officers and police personnel – is worrying me whether this work has been done well enough. The Emergency Communications Directorate and the Council of State seem to repudiate any form of criticism. The draft State budget for 2013 presents the general framework for development, but little or nothing is said about the draft for the project. It is claimed that the chosen TETRA standard differs from that of the rest of Europe, called TEDS. This seems strange, because the Stortinget has assumed in previous processing that new emergency networks should be a ready-to-use product and not a development project. The right concerns whether the deployment of the emergency network has been selected on an incorrect basis and whether the further process is well planned. There are several reasons for this concern. Original order for Stortinget i St.prp. No 30 for 2006-2007, several aspects that were important to the Right are assured under the chapter ‘Central characteristics of the new network’: ‘In nationwide deployment, emergency network radio transmitters/recipients will cover about 80 % of the country’s area and close to 100 % of the population.’ The NRK revealed earlier in the autumn that there was a secret agreement between the directorate and the supplier, Motorola, that the coverage would be reduced. For us in the right, it looks as if the directorate may have agreed to an average coverage of approx. 10 pst. during Storting's order, or even less. Is this true? We've also been told that Troms County should only have a coverage of 57 pst. This is not as ordered, and this reduction can mean the difference between life and death. ‘There will be particularly good coverage in cities and agglomerations, including indoors’, was said by the government. This has been reduced to: ‘In built-in strokes there shall be a certain indoor coverage, which requires a slightly higher density of base stations.’ This means that the ambitions have become something completely different. With this, the new emergency network becomes almost an outdoor network, while the ambulance staff to help the birthing woman in the housing block she lives in must be based on mobile phone along the way or, if necessary, run out on the street when they need to contact their midwife. The Spaniard who follows the criminal rapist must hope for the best when she persecutes the suspect into the Oslo S or the T-Bahn in Oslo, because the connection doesn't work well enough here. The bodyguards who took care of South Korea's head of state on state visits to Norway, we have been informed that we had no coverage inside the Grand Hotel. Several fire stations hold onto the old link, because their own internal tests show a class difference in the indoor coverage. Even more strange is this reduction in quality when we know that TETRA users in our neighbouring countries do not face the same indoor coverage problems. The reason for this shall be that their radios are equipped with so-called Gateway repeaters that significantly enhance the signal, whereas this shall have fallen from the requirement specification in the course of Norwegian purchases. Why was this not included in the Norwegian tender? These were several suppliers who could already deliver in the first Norwegian bidding round. That Motorola at this point didn't have this on his radios, has it played a role? ‘In the start-up phase, data services will have a maximum transfer rate of 28,8 kb/s. Data transmission at speed up to 163 kb/s is planned to be implemented in cities, agglomerations and along European roads, national roads and county roads from 2009.’;» This is what the government said in 2006. Now it is said that data traffic on the network is difficult. Users depend on their mobile phones, sometimes using iPad, the ambulance service has had to use a separate map system, and the possibilities to send ECG over the encrypted emergency network, which was also promised, are still just a dream. The last estimates heard by the Right are that this might be implemented between 2025 and 2030, which probably means a breach of Storting's assumptions. ‘The emergency network will be capable of being used in helicopters and aeroplanes up to 8000 ft above sea level’ was the order. The facts have shown that the police helicopters that have been patrolled in the Oslo area in the fall were uncovered in the air for six weeks. Strangely enough, this should have started to work again the same week as the Minister of Justice and I last met in this room and discussed the question in a Question Time. Hopefully, this is now in place for the future. At the same time, we see that the Right assumption that the rescue helicopters should also be connected to the emergency network is not included anyway. Is it supposed that these are going to come along, or have you given up this? New emergency network shall have ‘good capacity in the event of an accident and in the day-to-day operational service’. That was the government's description of the negotiating result in 2006. We see that the emergency connection's capacity is detonated in the capital and the capital center every week, and that it has collapsed in several critical situations. Examples are the storm Dagmar, a house fire at Hasle, in the middle of Oslo, and an exercise at Ila State Prison. A robust network that works during power failure and when other networks are down was a main argument for a new emergency network. What we see today can be an emergency network that is even more vulnerable than the mobile network, because it has far fewer base stations. It is not reassuring to hear that the Emergency Communications Directorate does not participate in the emergency drill either — the so-called and mentioned TYR, which was recently implemented. At the same time, we hear that the base stations should only have eight hours of spare time in the event of a power failure. The government said in the proposition that decided to initiate construction: ‘High level of user involvement is considered to be an important risk mitigation measure in the project’.» At the same time, emergency personnel say they are not being heard. Former health director says that poor coverage and voice quality have been reported for several years, without any plans being seen to improve this. They experience that their user experience does not reach and that the Directorate bases evaluation reports on the analysis of statistics from the computer system or management surveys in the departments. Even in the Directorate of Emergency Communications' own evaluation after the 22nd of July, there was no talk with those who were operational during the police action. The evaluation report refers to this being done in the further follow-up, but, as the Right has understood, the police are still waiting for such a request. The Council of State has said that the preparation of the emergency network specification places great emphasis on making this technology neutral. It is stated in the proposition that: ‘it is the responsibility of the supplier to provide a system ready to use’. Why is it not required so-called gateway repeater function in the radios? The question becomes even more central when we have been shown at the same time that the secret requirement specification, which was the basis for the bidding round, required the supplier to provide radio terminals that support the TETRA standard TEDS. How could the Ministry of Justice require the TEDS standard when this was not technology neutral, and that at this time this was only at the development stage of Motorola? I'll ask you again, how could you? In addition, we do not understand how to choose a supplier at all, when it turns out that Motorola could not deliver products and solutions based on this standard until May the current year – six years after they won the contract. This part of the case has a smell that we in the Right are not comfortable with. The fact that the Emergency Communications Directorate admits that Motorola has been sitting on several sides of the table and has participated in the design of the tender criteria already through the first tender procedure indicates that the outcome was not technology neutral, as the Stortinget was assured. It is very regrettable that the process has been carried out in such a way that the Public Acquisition Complaint Body has concluded that there is a breach of the law and that the transfer of the contract from Nokia Siemens to Motorola may be illegal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e750	Emergency networks are the new digital radio connection to the three emergency situations of fire, health and police. It is safe to listen, with better functionality, voice quality, coverage and capacity than today's connection. Emergency networks are used both internally in the networks and as a cooperative where the teams share time-critical information between different organisations. Emergency networks are being developed to meet the needs described by the emergency kits. The development is in line with the recommendation of the external quality insurer and the framework is as given by the Stortinget. The Emergency Communications Directorate, DNK, is closely followed up, both through the State Administration of the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the regular supervision of the National Audit Office. The fire, health and police emergencies specified requirements for new emergency network in advance of the tendering procedure. They participated in the evaluation of the offers and in the negotiations with the supplier and recommended the contract to the department. The emergency network, as the interpellant points out, was delayed about three years in the first stage of development. Reasons for this have been explained in Prop. 100 S for 2010-2011, submitted on 15 April 2011. The delay was mainly due to major difficulties on the supplier side, long-term processes for the establishment of some base stations and unforeseen delays associated with the evaluation between first and second stages of development. Emergency grids are in use throughout the first stage of development. About 8 000 radio terminals are connected to the system. Monthly there are more than half a million calls in the Emergency Network. User studies show that the vast majority of users are satisfied. A fireman in Halden recently said to Halden Arbeiderblad that the emergency net is the largest thing that has happened to the fire service since the hose. A staff member in the Ambulance Service says to the Ambulance Forum: "We have a network that definitely has some childhood diseases, but for the first time I actually have a connection at work. In addition, I have coverage. This is a good combination. For the first time, I have a security alarm that I trust will work. I have never had this before." When the Judicial Committee was in Drammen a few weeks ago, I was told that the head of the AMK said: ‘There have been critical voices to the new emergency network, but we believe it is very good. The sound is much better and the possibilities are more.’ The emergency network contract covers the supply of huge quantities of technical equipment over a longer period of time. In contracts of this size and complexity, contract supplements are normally drawn up to clarify the problems which inevitably arise in the course of the process. The contract and additions cover the general interests of the State and are in line with the leadership of this Chamber. Some media claim that the Emergency Network has had a cost increase of 3.6 billion. NOK 6 billion. NOK – which would correspond to an increase of 67 pst. Here you mix numbers that are not comparable. The expected cost increase is about 27-30 pst. in 2011 crowns, depending on the amount of uncertainty provision that will be needed — far below the estimate referred to above. The tier 1 cost framework was estimated at 900 million in 2006. NOK, in which case no funds were allocated for uncertainty. In the above mentioned Prop. 100 S for 2010–2011, it was reported that the total cost of step 1 was 1,347 billion. kr in 2011-krona. At the base of 200 million. kr of the excess cost can be directly related to the delay. In 2011, the cost framework for the development of step 2 was set at 4.7 billion. kr, and the uncertainty reserves amount to 750 million. kr – in line with the recommendation of the external quality insurer. The interpellant is concerned whether the development of the Emergency Network has taken place on the basis of incorrect information. Before the Stortinget decided to expand the area, the emergency network was carefully examined. Extensive investigations are available from independent and credible actors. In addition, there has always been deep user involvement in the development of emergency networks — from specification to final solution. Emergency networks have been claimed to be based on a different standard from ‘the rest of Europe is using’. The TETRA standard is used by Iceland, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Lithuania, Estonia, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Slovenia, Portugal, Italy and Greece. Norway and Sweden have also started a project to enable emergency officials in the two countries to use their emergency radios in both countries. This cooperation is only possible because we have the same connection technology. In Norway, the delivery of TEDS is also included in the contract. TEDS is part of the TETRA standard that provides faster data traffic on the emergency network. A TEDS pilot project shall be carried out in Norway next year. The TEDS will be able to transfer data traffic on the emergency network at a higher rate. Both the analyst Gartner and the Ministry of Finance’s external quality assurance companies, which ensured the quality evaluation of both the first and second stages of construction, concluded that there were no real alternatives to TETRA. No other country has based its emergency networks on commercial mobile networks. Recently, questions have been asked as to whether the coverage for Emergency Networks is going to be lower than the size provided for in its 2011 Decision. The objective of an emergency grid coverage of close to 100 pst. by the population and 79 pst. the land area is fixed. Emergency networks will provide almost full coverage along European roads, highways and highways, as well as in cities and agglomerations. Increased signal strength in cities and agglomerations is required to optimise indoor coverage. There will be cover in coastal areas and cover requirements for helicopters. Mobile base stations for use in e.g. mountain cottage and several indoor facilities have been ordered. Ensuring coverage is a comprehensive and time-consuming process. It requires not only good planning but also adjustments after measurements and experience of use. Working methods have now improved. Prior to the expansion, local emergency situations are being implemented in all areas of development to provide information on local conditions and needs. Then the Emergency Network is built with good coverage in the areas where people live and the Emergency Catastrophes move. Where emergency networks are established in each development area, user experience and field measurements shall identify the need for possible construction of additional base stations. This working method, which has now been developed, provides the practical best and fastest way to build the nationwide network. In order to be able to use emergency networks also in the event of incidents in areas where fixed coverage is not established, mobile base stations will be acquired. As mentioned above, emergency budgets have been involved in the specification work for emergency networks. General requirements for increased signal strength have been imposed in the 22 largest cities and around all fire stations in order to achieve indoor coverage up to a certain level. This has resulted in a stronger signal strength used in cities in Norway than in most European cities where TETRA is also used as an emergency link. There will always be construction where radio beams do not reach in. Interior coverage depends on the concrete structure, façade, building material and scope of the buildings. Which buildings are involved may be difficult to identify in advance. The basis of competition does not require coverage that provides smoke scubators with guaranteed access to the fixed network when operating inside all buildings. Such an unlimited indoor coverage requirement would be extremely cost-effective and difficult to implement. However, according to the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, 24 out of 29 fire services in the first stage of development use the smoke-diving network. A study is now being carried out in cooperation between the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the SINTEF to determine whether there are differences in quality between the old special relationship that has previously been used for smoke diving and emergency network radios in different building constructions. The aim is to provide fire managers with a good basis for deciding which type of connection is most suitable for smoke and chemical diving. The July 22 report of the Commission underlines the importance of the expansion of emergency networks throughout Norway as soon as possible. The government sees it as a priority task to ensure this and to ensure that emergency networks in operation are a safe and efficient tool for users. The supplier exchange and the contract supplements have significantly reduced the risk in the project. The development of Emergency Networks meets Storting's requirements for quality and surface coverage. The step 2 deployment of Emergency Networks is in full swing. Today, there is ongoing expansion in Hedmark, West Uppland and Gudbrandsdal police districts, and radio planning is under way for the whole country. National Emergency Networks are completed by the end of 2015, in line with the recommendation of the external quality insurer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e819	I am also quite sure that there are very many good examples from the use of the emergency network. It is both to expect and to do well, but it does not, however, disapprove of the experience that suggests that improvements need to be made. As it is so good in all other countries that use this, it may indicate that there is a problem in Norway. So no one else is using the TEDS, the development project, and then it's not going to be a key plan, as the Stortinge provided. The order from Stortinget was also that we should have a technology-neutral competition that just delivered a key-grade robust emergency network, according to several specifications of the required quality, and we are about to put in place an encrypted emergency network that will enable our emergency units to better communicate with each other. These are good examples, but there are also things that need to be improved. But we have ended up linking ourselves to a single supplier in a development project that does not have the robustness, quality, price or feasibility in time provided for in the decisions. The keys to the system just don't fit completely after six years. The directorate and Motorola continue to work with merking and filing, and hope that they will last. Patience is running out. The facts must be on the table, independent evaluations must be available, and we as legislators must also have access to them. A thorough review of the emergency network is required and is now in the process of being put in place. We need to know if this is just good enough. Is that good enough for the operational response teams? Does it keep water for our society in major disasters? Is the emergency network future-oriented so that it can be integrated with the new technology that has emerged since its adoption in 2005? In the Right, we think it would be useful to look at the solutions that are possible to improve the system, as the solution of the Norwegian research laboratory Simula is testing, with a new SIM card that allows the emergency radios not only to use the TETRA network, but also Telenor, NetCom, Ice or others if necessary. So far, what the Council of State has said about the emergency network and its development is not a response to all the challenges that users face. I think it's important that the Council of State assures that the coverage, as the Council of State says, should be as intended by the Stortinget, also be respected by the Emergency Communications Directorate, and that there are no secret documents to indicate that the coverage is 57 pst. in Sogn and Fjordane or in other parts of our country, where the coverage is significantly lower than foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e832	I'm glad this project has a lot of attention. The emergency network is a significant improvement in the communication capability of emergency budgets. The fact that it is nevertheless demanding to carry out such a large project is no surprise, and that we have to keep up with both the government and the bulk of the implementation, is of course also obvious. I want to make sure immediately that there are no secret agreements on reduced coverage. There have been several discussions on how to ensure this development, and at the latest in this room, discussions were held on how to ensure this installation, such as: in protected areas. Therefore, on the basis of the decision taken by the Stortinget, this has also been taken into account in the implementation of the nationwide roll-out, the use of fixed installations and also mobile solutions to ensure coverage as foreseen. Gateway repeaters are mentioned several times. It's a technical term that I'm not going to go into in detail, but it's in step 2. It is also the case that the rescue helicopters will be included in the implementation of the project. This was for discussion already in the government that the interpellant belonged to, and I am sure that technology-neutral acquisition was discussed and also implemented in the tender documents that went out later. It is obvious that users are fully involved, not least in ensuring that the emergency network will eventually operate as intended. Once we have learned what it was that contributed to the delay in construction step 1, among other things. that it should be said to be perfect before it was put into service, we have chosen in step 2 a more dynamic roll-out, even after a decision here in the Stortinget. This means that the user involvement to ensure that the network works as intended is absolutely central. The defects that are subsequently discovered, and the weaknesses that are discovered, are corrected, and then in cooperation with the users, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e843	First, thank you to the interpellant for addressing this matter. It is important because the development of emergency networks throughout the country, which is in full swing, is the greatest effort now being made in the area of social security to combat organised crime, to deal with major accidents, natural disasters and possible terrorist threats. But the interpellation is also important because we feel that sometimes it is both misunderstandings and misinformation. in the media. The emergency numbers we have today, the new emergency network and emergency communications are mixed together as if everything is the same thing. I hope that this debate can help clarify, and that we can get the facts out in a good way. It should not be put under the chair by this case has a bit of a broken past both with the construction of the network and with the delivery. It wasn't the technology committee's fault. But it is a complex technology project that requires interaction between a number of actors, user groups and suppliers, and the development of the first phase of the network was a very challenging process. There is a great need for a new digital radio connection for the emergency and emergency seats that are safe to listen to, providing better functionality, voice quality, coverage and capacity. That is why the Stortinget, unanimously, has adopted full expansion in the country. With regard to the choice of technology, there has been criticism from some individuals and parts of the floors. It must be taken seriously, and further work must involve experience, knowledge and input from users. But I stress what the Council of State said in its statement, that the emergency budgets participated in the tendering process and in the evaluation of the offers, and they also agreed to accept the contract before it was signed, which was crucial for Stortinget when it was decided to extend it. However, in the public debate, it has been said by some that the technology chosen in Norway is not forward-looking. Moreover, in the context of the consultation of the Transport and Communications Committee on the 2013 State Budget, ICT Norway stated that urgent action should be taken to address the development of commercial telecommunications networks. They justified this by the development of a new Norwegian technology that can take in all operators and all kinds of technologies, including TETRA. It was said that the emergency network can be saved with new Norwegian technology, and that we can get better coverage, capacity, cheaper development and efficiency of the floors. On questions from the undersigned about how much cheaper it would be, they had no answer to it. It should be checked whether ICT Norway is right in its claims, but we cannot accept that the emergency network will be delayed or worse than the one adopted by the Stortinget, with all the required functionalities, including: encrypted listening secure calls in groups. The interpellant suggests that the selected TETRA standard is now claimed to be different from that of the rest of Europe. This is an example of incorrect information in this case. In its contribution, the Council of State highlighted the other European countries using TETRA and the joint project under way between Norway and Sweden. There are some obstacles on the way, but we get to believe that they can be removed, so that social security is further strengthened both between and within these two countries. Once the Storting has dealt with issues relating to the Emergency Network in the past, it has been stressed that provision should be made as far as possible for the use of the network by non-governmental organisations engaged in rescue operations. That is why I am satisfied that the test is now being carried out at, among other things. Norwegian People's Aid, Red Cross and the Rescue Company, and that the Air ambulance is on its way in. In addition, Stortinget and Norway’s Bank are in and projects are under way with civil defence, NSB, Tollvesenet, Defence and the energy industry. That's good, but the main focus must be the three emergency situations. The network is now used on a daily basis by well over 8 000 users from the fire, health and police activities, and the experience of users is largely good. Weaknesses are identified, constantly improving the system, and of course it has to be. There are some challenges with indoor coverage, especially in new buildings. This is a problem shared with the commercial actors. An example is the new buildings in Bjørvika, which create large skulls for Telenor. The Directorate is continuously working on this problem, but an advantage of TETRA is that it is possible to use hand terminals for communication when there is no contact with the network. Many initiatives are now being taken to strengthen preparedness in Norway. The grid is one, and I'm sure there's a major contributor to increased social security in our country. I just hope that it is not such that the Right believes that one will almost start up again, so one could get some impression of in Schous articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e883	This is an incredibly important debate. I am pleased that the Right has also seen that there are major challenges in the implementation of the so-called new emergency network. The party of progress has been skeptical since 2004, and has expressed it clearly, precisely because of some of the technological challenges that we saw: that you can't send images, that you can't send videos or videos, which could be very important for the emergency situations to pass on to the operating centres. Then it's good that we finally get a government council that's responsible for the new emergency network, and that can actually get to Stortinget. The policy has been that the government council that has been responsible cannot meet in Stortinget because he has been involved in the matter. It is very good that we now have a government council that can actually meet and discuss the emergency network issue, and that is responsible for this. But what's a bit of a shame is that, during the treatment of the emergency network case, we have had 14 days of treatment in Stortinget. The size has not been given a real opportunity in a thorough and proper way to discuss some of the major challenges that we are now seeing. When I hear the Council of State boasting that we are implementing a new emergency network: yes, technology is from the 1990s, and there has actually been a lot of technology since TETRA and so-called new emergency network was established. You might say, well, there's a new old system you're about to introduce. So the state council and others would like to boast that the users are happy. Yes, I record that there are many users who say they are satisfied, but often I experience that they are a little higher in the systems. From those who are really on the ground level, and who use the emergency network every day in emergency situations, at least the feedback we get is far from as unambiguously positive as the state council is trying to present it as it is here today. It's a paradox that in Ila State Prison, where you have some of the maybe worst and most criminal prisoners we have in this country, this whole emergency net down when the emergency situations are going to have an exercise there. And then you say you have to get better at using the connection. It is reassuring that you have to talk less about the connection, because then it might work – put a little on the tip. I hope it's not like that. I hope that it is taken seriously. I expect and I think that the Emergency Communications Directorate will take this very seriously. So the police's bodyguard and the Royal Police Card won't use the new emergency network because it's too bad. That's the feedback. The health department says it's too bad. It takes the Progress Party seriously. That is why we have invited you to a seminar this Thursday. It would have been nice if the Minister of Justice would take a trip to listen to the users, those who are very concerned about this, and who feel that the emergency network is not working as everyone wants it to work. I think the Council of State would like to say something about the new possibilities you are now seeing. The simulation says that it is fully possible to put in place new solutions, new technologies, where you use the commercial network together with the emergency network. I think it's hard to say that you're going to scrap something you've spent two billion dollars. kr is already running. But you might say that we have to use the commercial network together with the emergency network to get the best possible service for those who are actually out doing the job. There are ordinary men and women doing the job in the emergency room, in the first line. Of course, they shall have the best communication equipment available. That is precisely why we have these debates. That's why we have these discussions, and that's why the Progress Party will also discuss what we're doing next after the Thursday seminar. This is very important, because it's about saving human lives, and it's about saving values. It is a paradox that on this so-called new emergency network you can talk, you can send a message, while a twelve-year-old, or a ten-year-old for that matter, who gets a relatively old phone, can send a message, he can call, and he can even send pictures. And if it's a little bit newer, he can even send video over his cell phone. This means that most people in Norway have a better system than we now have for the new emergency network. I look forward very much to the seminar we're going to have on Thursday. As I said, there is an open invitation to the Minister of Justice if she wants to come and listen to both those who are in favour and against. Then I hope that after that we can look at what we do about the emergency network, because it is important to ensure a good and safe emergency network.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e904	What has been the most demanding and problematic when the Storting has tried to follow the emergency network carefully is the unclear and sometimes contradictory evidence on which we have been able to build. I would like to say that the emergency network expansion almost competes with the ICT expansion in the police regarding the lack of reassuring information to Stortinget. It makes an impression when a blindly solid former health director goes out publicly and casts doubt on some of the facts presented under the direction of the Emergency Communications Directorate. Then our alarm clocks call. It simply does not believe that poor coverage and voice quality have been reported for several years without any action, as he pointed out. It is problematic when several of us are informed that information is being made up or withheld, that those who are actually required to carry out dangerous jobs do not experience that their information is being obtained or have been requested to be disclosed at all. When you say that the user is satisfied, it's quite easy to know that a lot of them have been in contact with, have asked us to ask, "Who are these users?" Who is asked, and how are they asked? As many have experienced, the emergency network collapsed both during Dagmar and during the full-scale exercise at Ila County Prison. It has also collapsed during an ordinary fire in a residential house in Oslo. The police report that the old connection worked much better for the police. Even inside the centre police station, it has to work badly in parts of the building. On the state visit to South Korea's president, Grand Hotel had no coverage on the internet indoors. Images are, as many have said, not possible to transfer, but there is an increasing need. The health service operates with its own system of maps adjacent to the emergency network, as it is not integrated. For the ambulance service, four to five keystrokes were used. So now you're going to use eleven. It says something about the challenges with which something has to be done. Several of the people we have been in contact with have commented on the Commission report, which says that if we had the emergency network in place, maybe things could be different on 22 July. They doubt that, because they believe that with the development of emergency networks, the situation would not be better resolved on July 22. There is reason to ask for the Commission's basis for their report at this point, which is based solely on what peaks have said, and not on what operational crews have said. We strongly doubt that the employees and users who contact us, whether they are in the health service, in the fire and rescue department or in the police, have any agenda other than to ensure that their working day is as secure as possible. They are simply concerned that they will not nearly dare to do their job in the future. What this interpellation is really about is whether the government council is sure that people who are going to use the emergency network can be sure that it works, and whether she can guarantee that we will not experience episodes like this in a few years' time. Firefighters are injured or perhaps killed at work because they cannot communicate with each other. There is a reason to consider that we have set up our own directorate to manage the entire emergency network development. It brings me to what we can say about the Norwegian way of organizing. Looking at the emergency network development and implementation of the ICT process in the police and a wide range of other examples, there is reason to question the way we organise our society. We have a POD that is supposed to be much better on ICT. We have a personal police data and material service. We have also established our own Emergency Network Development Directorate. At the same time, we have a totally fragmented system to prevent and combat ‘ cybercrime’ without a clear and central strategy. We only leave to private companies to deal with potential security threats via Chinese Huawei. This gives reason to ask who has the overall responsibility at all – if the right hand sees the left hand. The right believes that emergency network deployment is actually a test of whether our decision-making and implementation systems have in practice learned something in particular after 22 July, whether we have now come to the point of no return or not. There are a wide range of questions that have not been answered today, for example:: When do the rescue helicopters come in concretely? What contractual possibilities do we have to complement with modern, new technologies that can complement what we now have? And not least, how has the Council of State planned to ensure that operational staff are more involved in the process in the future than has been the case at present?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e930	It was a unanimous expansion that 9 June 2011 decided that we would build a new emergency network in all of mainland Norway. It was an important decision to strengthen preparedness and communication between our key emergencies. The debate on this emergency network has recently been strong, and the government has been tolerating much criticism from the opposition. Unfortunately, I feel that the debate is characterised by misunderstandings and lack of knowledge. Many of these misunderstandings could have been easily avoided. I wonder if someone sometimes doesn't want to get all the facts on the table, for easier to criticize. The representative of Schou stresses in his question that Stortinget has suggested that a new emergency network should be of the same standard as in our neighbouring country. Furthermore, it claims that the chosen standard is different from that of the other countries in Europe. If the representative from the Right had taken the time to check up on this matter, she would have known that the TETRA booth that is elected is the same as a utility in our nearest neighbouring countries; Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland and the United Kingdom. This has been a very important point for this government, as it makes cooperation across borders much easier. At present, there are no safe, reliable options for emergency communications to the network selected. This is particularly the case in view of speech in groups and, where necessary, rapid connection. We've also received criticism from various sources in some of the nutshells. It seemed strange to me, especially given the fact that it was just the etats themselves, the fire service, the health services and the police who specified the requirements for the emergency network. These requirements were the basis of the bidding process and the contract that was signed later. At the same time, I want to make it clear that we need to listen to the experiences that a person is doing along the way, and use them to ensure the best possible quality. Constructive criticism is good, but he must be factual. It's been hard to put this web in place. The network was supposed to be ready in 2009. Causes of problems include: that the supplier failed to deliver as planned. The government took the consequences and got to hand over the contract to the supplier who is now running and completing the network. It is not good that this process has taken some time, but I am content that the department took hold when one saw how it developed. The centre party is impatient about getting a new net in place in the whole country, and one does not measure a user's time to doubt, and in that way it trains the case as it happens when a person gets massive criticism and a little too many problem settings that are not evidence-based. The target of an emergency network coverage of close to 100 pst. of the population and 79 pst. the land area is fixed. That some in the media have presented something else is at best based on misunderstandings. The map that NRK previously used to claim that ambitions have been reduced was a map based on a step before one is finished with the full network. When the emergency network is established in the individual development area, user experience and field measurements shall identify the need for possible construction of additional base stations. This is the height, both in the contract and in the cost frame of Prop. 100 S for 2010–2011. Such reinforcement of the coverage shall not impede progress in the development of other areas. It's important. The current working method provides the practical best and fastest way to build the nationwide network. I am pleased that this government is now betting with full pressure to install the necessary emergency network. Now I just hope that the other parties will be able to stand up for this bet instead of using each one of the options to make political coins on the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e949	This issue concerns the basic infrastructure of society. It is a matter of which there has been a great political consensus, and which has been dealt with by changing governments with great seriousness. But there is a matter of great concern in terms of progress, costs and quality. I don't think there's any reason, as the representative Klinge now did, to ask questions about the intention of those who are critically raising questions about such a large and important social infrastructure, when development has been as it has actually been. I think the Minister of Justice's posts could be interpreted in a very reassuring way. She stated that she had good control in this matter. I hope that's right. The fragments of information that we have at this stage, in my view, do not give cause for as much calm as the Council of State expressed. The traditional separate radio link in the police, fire services and health services is based on old technologies that are not adapted to technological developments elsewhere in society. The emergencies, among them health care, are increasingly meeting more stringent requirements for service efficiency, precision and safety, and therefore there has been a broad political consensus that a new emergency network is needed. At present, there are connection solutions that are old and meet little safety and operational requirements. The development of the emergency network would strengthen the capacity of society to combat organised crime and to deal with major accidents, natural disasters and possible terrorist threats, as well as the ongoing everyday activities in our emergencies – the interaction – would be better. Then we have seen that not only has the expansion taken a long time and become more expensive than intended, the expansion has also been greatly delayed. There are cracking signals about how the network works – or rather does not work. The last time we read the Gjørv report on the problems related to the fact that some police districts that had to cooperate were at a different stage compared to the emergency network. We have messages from Rome about the failure of the storm 'Days' and the police emergency communication. We hear claims about secret contracts, downgraded coverage and health problems, and there have still been delays in development. It's good if all of this can be refuted. One of the most important tasks of the country is to ensure the safety of its citizens. An emergency network that does not work is a very serious matter. I would say that if the worst scenarios in this case strike, there is a very serious case for everyone in this room, and you can start preparing for the mandate and composition of the investigation commission. I hope we don't get there. However, the government should be grateful that it has a critical opposition to raise these questions, as the representative Schou has done in an excellent way here today, and ensure that it is possible – even on the way – to provide adequate information when the Stortinget feels that it has not received it. I think it would make sense, as this case has evolved, that the Storting gets a thorough and comprehensive presentation of the whole matter's status before this collapse separates. We'll probably have an opportunity to come back to that on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e965	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Much has already been said, and of course the Left is behind those who have said that the emergency network is a very important part of the emergency response in Norway. The left is also one of those who are behind the fact that the emergency network is worth the investment, even though it has become much more expensive than intended. After all, it is not the only public acquisition that has become more expensive than intended. You could say that the emergency net cost about as much as a frigate when it was ordered, and it costs about as much as a frigate today – just for comparison. When, on 22 July, the Commission presented its final report on the terrorist attacks on the government quarter and on the AUF camp on the Utøya, the Commission leader said that the new digital emergency network worked well – and as expected. The emergency network is, as we all know, only partially developed in Norway, and not in the Northern Buskerud police district. On the other hand, advanced functionality in the emergency network was used to a small extent during the effort made on 22 July last year. This includes common speech groups between the emergency response rates and the text message functions to ensure the rapid and efficient distribution of information using low capacity. However, the Commission also writes that weak local connection and lack of coverage of the emergency network contributed to misunderstandings about, among other things. place of meeting – that it could occur. Of course, that concerns the Left. The left wants to be constructive and solution-oriented in the further work – and of course not, as the representative Klinge suggested, in this case. The emergencies and the important work they do deserve us to have a well-functioning and user-friendly network in place. The Left will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e974	It's good that we get the actual facts about the development of the Emergency Network, and all the information needs to be provided. I think the Council of State, in its response to the interpellant, presented the situation and the process in a good way, including the challenges that have been faced, especially on the supplier side, where, fortunately, this year, something that seems to be a good solution has come up. The Council of State also described the choices that have been made within what is currently provided for by technological solutions, where the requirement for group communication has been very decisive, in line with the adopted framework for acquisitions of the Storting. I stress this with group communication. It is far more important than sending pictures. Then I hear that Bård Hoksrud compares the emergency network with the mobile phone. Too short to comment on it: I think it's a little bit tricked that a seminar is being organised. Here you go very thoroughly to work to secure the intended coverage, which is otherwise a continuous process – as much other related to the emergency network. Different communication systems have been and are still a major problem where the emergency network has not yet been developed. There is a need for much better interaction between operators in emergency situations, and communication systems are crucial. The emergency network is a common nationwide voice communication system to ensure a common encrypted network for emergency situations so that they can be safely communicated across and within the networks. I would like to stress that this is about voice communication. That's what the Storing has decided. That is what the emergency network is primarily, if the technology used also provides for the possibility to transfer a certain amount of data traffic, such as: allow digital mapping solutions in service cars. The Justice Committee recently visited Buskerud and Telemark, among others. Sdr. Buskerud Police District. Both the Police Master and the Operational Service Officer expressed satisfaction with the emergency network. In fact, expressions such as ‘excellent satisfaction’ and ‘a success’ were used. The Chief of Police said that the preparedness is considerably better after the deployment of the Emergency Network. There have been some entry problems, of course. But I would also like to tell you that in Søndre Buskerud Police District, the important volunteer forces on the Emergency Network have been linked by the use of networked cooperative channels. That's very good. The Judicial Committee also met with fire brigade and AMK staff, co-located with the police operating centre in the Drammen – otherwise a co-location we were given the impression of giving very many positive benefits. The emergency details of the Drammen expressed great satisfaction with the emergency network. On questions from the committee on what they thought was the cause of much of the criticism of the Emergency Network, she answered, who represented AMK, that her experience is that it is those who have not yet used the Emergency Network, which are the greatest sceptics. As the Council of State also said in its statement, all user surveys show that the vast majority of users are satisfied and that the emergency network is working. And we're starting to gain considerable experience with the new web as it averages on a monthly basis half a million conversations over this system, as the Council of State said. The development of emergency networks is now under way in Oppland and Hedmark. My impression is that the development is characterized by good, well-organised processes, where local people in the police, fire and health are actively involved – yes, they are also involved in leading the process. My impression is also that a lot of enthusiasm and great professionalism characterise the work. There are separate meetings on coverage, where one has gone through the coverage maps and made improvements. There has been a useful and necessary shift in local knowledge, and coverage and connectivity are undoubtedly much better than they are today. I can use Vang as an example – one of the largest municipalities in Uppland to the extent. Today, it's, a little bit simplified to say, coverage almost just around the city center and a few other areas. With a new emergency network, almost the entire municipality, with mountain areas, will have coverage. It is really about strengthened preparedness and increased security. Such a large investment, with an expansion over several years throughout the country, will naturally receive a lot of attention. Critical questions are included, but let us also note all the positive links with this web, and how important it is when we need rapid and good help and coordinated help – and not least how important it is for our response actors to do their job in a good way, and to have a safe job.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1002	The representative, Mr Hagebakken, is welcome to the Bureau's hearing on emergency networks on Thursday. The emergency network is a more than voice communication system. The Progress Party is concerned about the situation related to emergency network deployment in Norway. That's the background for us to organise open consultation on Thursday. It is excellent that the Right has raised the matter through an interpellation in the Storting, and asks a number of questions. More important is getting part of these answered, so all of us would have seen that it was a public hearing. As it is now, there is a hearing organised by the Progress Party, and we can only invite participants, and we can only invite the Council of State. We should like to use a little bit more of a tool than just an invitation. I would like to remind you that when the country's prime minister commented on his own briefing on this big issue of the July 22 Commission report, he actually used investment in emergency networks as his crown example of what the government will do to improve preparedness and social security in Norway. It's not least on the background that we have to take over all the ambiguity that at the moment seems to characterize the situation. On 9 June 2011, the Stortinget examined the matter of completing the deployment and operation of the emergency network. State Council Giske, who was responsible for the State Council, said: ‘[...] this is a working solution.’ Mr Sønsterud, who had spoken here earlier in the debate, said: ‘User experience is broadly positive.’ Afterwards, some other information has been provided, not least feedback from many users that the reactions are fairly mixed. Some may not, some may not, some may not, for a slightly different reason, use the emergency network. And not everyone sees this as a better solution than what they had before the first stage was finished and put into use. Through the media, especially the Evening Post, we have subsequently been told that Stortinget did not know much, that we did not know that it would be a little too small to allow time and costs to be exceeded, that there were problems in the procurement process, and that it would have to be expected that non-contracting providers would perhaps sue the State. This is also the case — and as soon as technological developments are taking place in Norway, it may be important to take it into account — that the main specifications of this system are relatively old, which are, in fact, the main specifications of the last century. It has become clearer afterwards that Stortinget did not have enough information. It has subsequently become clear that there were weaknesses in the solution that was chosen. Among the poor information that Stortinget actually has to deal with, is the last thing that the department won't even tell you what a stop might cost. It's an incredible attitude from the government not to want to inform the opposition about what a stop order will cost. We also know too little about the weaknesses of the emergency network, and not least we know too little about the alternatives to both the emergency network as a total solution and the emergency network with help from others can provide to improve social security in Norway. What will be done to ensure that the solution that is being implemented becomes a more user-friendly solution that actually increases preparedness and that addresses, as far as possible, the technological developments that have taken place in recent years and this century?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1025	The interpellant addresses a very important topic, because, as the interpellant underlines, the emergency network itself is the core wall of Norway’s preparedness, and it is highly problematic that the new emergency network does not function as expected. The crews who depend entirely on the emergency network are warned about the quality. We're going to take that very seriously. It must also be perfectly legitimate for the opposition to challenge the government when it can indicate that the Storting's assumptions relating to the quality of the network have been broken. Problems under the carpet or are minimized are unacceptable, as the quality of the emergency network can ultimately be a matter of life or death. When Stortinget adopted a new emergency network, it was based on information that this would provide our three emergency stations – the police, fire services and health services – with a top modern encrypted connection, which would ensure good and safe communication when the situation requires it. It should mean good-bye to old, partly out-of-date communications equipment, to which significant maintenance costs are currently attached. Nor is it a secret that several of the emergency kits wear equipment that sings in the very last verse, and that should have been replaced for the longest time. Then it is not very reliable when we hear that the same floors are wondering if they need to proceed with parallel equipment when the new emergency network is in place. There is a cause for concern when feedback on the actual coverage of the new emergency network does not correspond to that product, or the emergency network, the Stortinget believes it has ordered. Providing social security is one of the most important tasks of the state, and there is little doubt that a well-functioning emergency network is a key tool in this context. That is why this issue is taking on so many – ordinary people, politicians at all levels and, of course, the employees and those responsible for the management of emergency situations – who have looked forward to putting in place top modern, operationally safe and efficient communication equipment. But something must obviously have gone wrong when we hear from the emergency situations that they are losing the connection inside the buildings, and that this is going beyond the safety of the crews and can actually prevent and delay the work of the emergency budgets in such a way that it may mean difference in whether life can be saved or life is lost. In my own home country, Troms, the emergency kits have alarmed this autumn about the coverage of the new emergency network that will be in place in 2015. For the two police districts that cover Troms together, we have seen tables with coverage figures of 62 p.m. and 62 p.m. respectively. Coverage for Middle Hålogaland Police District and 57 pst. coverage for Trom's police district, which will thus, together with Sogn and Fjordane police districts, have the country's deciduous lowest coverage for the emergency network. How is that possible? The Minister of Justice must understand that this creates reactions — and much uncertainty as to whether the new emergency network will actually be a step forward, or whether it will be a step backwards, thereby providing artificial or unclear certainty as to whether the new emergency network is safe or not. If a coverage of 57 pst. In Troms and Sogn and Fjordane, the Council of State has today full opportunity to correct this. The interpellant was involved in this in his opening post, without the Council of State having subsequently refuted that this could be the result. A coverage of between 57 and 62 pst. in parts of the country, while operating in the Central East region with a coverage of up to 100 p.p., means that we will have a great deal of inequality in Prepared Norway. Activities in the north areas are increasing, and there was a need for increased preparedness in the north in itself and for authorities to be in the forefront of action to increase preparedness and security. Since 22 July, social security has marked the political agenda. We have come to realize how vital it is that emergency situations have a good and well-functioning equipment. Investment in new emergency networks is a significant billion-dollar promise for society, and it must then be allowed to have high expectations of the emergency network and to be prepared in the future to meet the challenges facing the emergency budgets in carrying out their vital work. It must also be allowed to expect that the government will contribute to the development of an unacceptable Difference Norway in the field of preparedness. In this case, it is of the utmost importance that the government now plays with open cards, and that for the future we will have an emergency network that can provide as good security and security wherever you live.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1048	Thank you to the interpellant for raising this important question for debate here in the Storting. Communication, of course, is crucial for good preparedness, and the new emergency network will have to work together several emergency situations in order to enable effective communication and, consequently, a good interoperability to ensure the safety of society. The interpellant placed great emphasis on the Storting's assumptions for its decisions in this matter, and that is what is essential in addition to social protection and social security interests. In 2004, the Stortinget provided many prerequisites for starting work on a new emergency network in Norway. One of the assumptions was data transmission. Of course - the voice connection is very central, and essential when we are talking about emergency networks, but also data transmission is important. I strongly disagree with what Mr. Hagebakken says in his statement that there is almost nothing to talk about here. The Justice Committee was in Japan earlier this fall – there was also the representative Hagebakken with – and there we could fully see the importance of data links in the Japanese Liaison System and how important it is to streamline both the social security work and the fight against crime. Another important assumption that Stortinget made in 2004 was an improved indoor coverage. Then we hear – and read – what has happened. Unfortunately, data transmission has been pushed forward in time with the new emergency network, and indoor coverage is subject to strong criticism. That is why I believe that there is also reason from this speaker to criticise the government's work on the fulfilment of Storting's 2004 assumptions. So some words about the process itself. In 2004, the Stortinget assumed that the emergency network would be completed in 2009. The time frame for 2015 is now. That in itself is serious, and I also believe that there is reason to criticize the government for it. So to the cost picture. In 2004, an upper cost framework of 4 billion was established. kr. The preliminary cost figures now amount to 6 billion. kr. It is also critical. This is behind the debate here in Stortingen today – the assumptions of Stortingen as to what are the realities. This is not a political game, as the representative Klinge pointed out and claimed in his statement. The size has a genuine interest in strengthening social security, and the emergency network is an important part of that work. To call it a political game to ask critical and well-founded questions about both process, time use and costs, I do not seem to belong in such an important and serious debate. It is with this backstop right in addition that records and takes on the deepest seriousness of the recordings we get from the operators in the various emergency situations, and that is why the Right believes that there is a reason to criticize the government's handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1067	I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing today an important matter for the Kingdom of Norway. We are in a phase in the implementation of the emergency connection that makes it worth paying attention and perhaps taking some action in the future. I don't want to call it a disaster, but it's not far away. It is much delayed, there is a sharp increase in the price tag on it, and it is a much worse coverage than what was the premise when it was to be introduced. Now it is to be admitted that it is not an easy matter to design and decide what an emergency network connection should look like, especially at a time when technology is developing rapidly. What's good about the connection is that it's encrypted. Of course, it's important for the police. Switching from analogue to digital was also a prerequisite for encryption. This, of course, results in a different level of physiological coverage. Before you could hear an analog connection talk a little, and you got some of what was said. When it's digital, you don't hear or hear. It's physiological. This, of course, also leads to a completely different coverage. The representative Hagebakken pointed out that his experience was that the coverage was reasonably good. Yes, it may be, it may be, in a small, delimited area. When asked about this, he said that he was worried that a quarter of the North Trondelag would not be covered, only 72 pst. the area is covered. Therefore, they consider whether to use the old analogue link in addition for coverage. This concerns both the police chief and the loners around the North Trøndelag, and I fully understand that. Governments say that mobile base stations are being introduced. Yeah, that's good, that's good, and it applies especially when you're having an exercise. But when the police on short notice are going to move out for an operation and have to cover the connection, it's not as easy to bring the mobile base station. It's probably a hanger behind a car, and some others are going to operate on it, so it might take a while. It is said that you can use the old connection in addition, or you can use a mobile phone. Yes – but how many phones do you have to bring with you when you have to perform an operation? We know that's pretty complicated. It's true that we spent a lot of work and energy getting the specifications on it, and it took us a little time to get started, but when it first started, the connection seemed incredibly good, and most people are satisfied with it. Image transfer has been an important matter. It's true, as Hagebakken says, it probably wasn't really a very big focus on image transfer, because it was the voice connection that was the important thing. But it's changed. Today, it is clear that in order to have full use of an emergency connection, image transfer is particularly important. It's clear that when you have a capacity of 160 kilobytes, while with 4G now you get a capacity of at least 50 megabits, the cell phone we're all going with is 300 times faster. Something has to be done, there is no doubt about it. Another thing that worries me is the volunteer organizations that have to operate on the same connection if they're going to have contact with the floors that operate. A lot of people have said that it costs too much to introduce, and it costs too much to operate. I'd like the Council to look at that. Otherwise, the Council of State has looked for claims where people are satisfied with the connection. Yes, they exist enough, they, but I would have appreciated it very much if the council had listened a little bit to those who say that this is a problem, because if you could solve it, you have to admit the problem. I'm asking the Council of State to take over the problems expressed by the agencies that are going to use the connection, and that we do the best of it. It is by no means right-wing to destroy any kind of progress in this, but that we shall jointly get to a system that works so that we can be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1086	Emergency networks, emergency networks, are expensive, it is difficult, but it is necessary so that I can reassure the representative Sønsterud that we would like to improve and adapt it to modern times. The trust in the emergency network project depends on our being able to deliver, and that there is a security for both the people who are going to use the emergency network in emergency situations, and for those who are in emergency situations when they are at work. That security is a prerequisite for us to have confidence in progress. The representative, Klinge, said that I should follow more in Europe. I think I might be going back to the representative of Klinge, because Anna Falk Drugge, who is leading the emergency network extension project in Sweden, Rachel, says that Norway has chosen a different standard of Tetra for its emergency network than Sweden. I guess it's okay that both government and state council know what standard we're actually building up to, because next year we're going to spend more than almost 1.5 billion. kr. We are committed to improving the emergency network, ensuring that the Storting decision is followed, and that it is adapted not only to the future of 2012 but also to the future. What the Council of State has said today has been informative, but on some matters not clarifying. It's about timing, funding, cost control, ensuring coverage – that it actually happens, and that we don't see this kind of notice that there are secret agreements – image communications, that helicopters, both in police and health, are included, that it's technology-neutral, that it's critical, that users are involved, and that there's structure and system for that very thing. Right prayer – as far as I remember, there were also several opposition parties that supported this – on regular reports of the deployment of the emergency network when we discussed this earlier. The government parties and the government didn't want that. I have a challenge for the Council of State, namely whether the Council of State is ready to assess such regular reports now. I believe that with the information we have received today, with the feedback from the operational users, we need to consider how we will follow the development of the emergency network in Stortinget together. We must constantly get pressure and security to ensure that the orders made and the content provided are followed up, so that the security of those who are going to use this is present, so that we, as elected representatives, also have the necessary confidence in our sponsors, namely the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1095	I would also like to thank you for the interpellation debate. It has allowed both to provide important information and to listen to the views expressed in the Chamber. The project Emergency Network is about investing in a group call option on a wireless network. I have no objection to the fact that the basic assumption is important to ensure. Nevertheless, there are many questions about what it is possible to do in addition, and whether you could do things differently. This project has been discussed many times in the main hall, and is now implemented as a broad majority in this room has suggested, with a coverage rate that I assume will be at least as good as the old networks we have around the country. When someone has talked about whether mobile solutions could be sufficient, we must not forget that mobile networks, mobile calls, today place restrictions on the fact that only one is talking to one. So the emergency network allows for calls between several people. Development projects are important. The Tetra standard gives us e.g. The possibility of communicating with other countries, and we have pilot projects in progress with the Swedes. The TEDS standard of Tetra also makes it possible for us with more data traffic in the network. This is interesting, and we're going to carry out the trial project next year. We're already in contact with Simula. User participation surveys are conducted regularly, and we need to have one with non-governmental organisations and health care. Training is, of course, central to the efficient use of the network. Both the lack of training and the lack of capacity that was subsequently corrected were some of the reasons for the failure experienced in Ila. Finally, I am pleased that the Left was very correct in its instructions that 22 July seemed the emergency network where it was installed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1110	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1124	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1138	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1144	Let's go to voting. Case No. (1) The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1149	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1157	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1165	The President noted that the legislative decision attached to the agenda contained an incorrect date reference. It says ‘In the Stortings meeting on 8 October’. It has to be November 8th. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-11-13.ana.ud61e1247	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
