ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e26	From the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal, from 29 February to 2 March, to take part in the presidential elections in Russia as an observer of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Terje Halleland, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e44	Terje Halleland is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Träldal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e49	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roar Bredvold and the undersigned, I propose to distinguish the market regulator role from the market player role in the food sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e54	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e57	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Kenneth Svendsen, Jørund Rytman, Harald T. Nesvik and myself to use tax relief as part of the wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e62	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e65	On behalf of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Ingerd Schou, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself, I will present proposals for free rehabilitation options to ensure better quality and availability in the rehabilitation offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e70	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e82	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the government councils Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Lars Peder Breck and Espen Barth Eide will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative, Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e89	Today we are presented with the proposals for the national transport plan for 2014-2023. Everyone knows that the floors are asked to submit a proposal that adds up to 45 pst. more in appropriations for the transport sector in addition to the framework we have today. It sounds extremely violent when you hear that the appropriations are going to be increased by 45 pst, but if you look at what the increase really means in the number of kilometers of road, you realize that it will take many, many years before you reach the goal of a real, modern, efficient and traffic-proof road network. The increase means we're going to have 2 billion. kr more for investments will be able to build approx. 15 km extra motorway per year, or a stretch which is very little further than Oslo-Sandvika. The line E18 Nordre Vestfold to Langangen border in Telemark will be fully developed as a four-field motorway at some point at the end of this decade. That means it has taken almost 20 years to build and get it completed approx. The distance of 90 km. The only answer for Kleppa and the government is on autopilot when the Progress Party wants to do something about the bad roads is that there has never been more money. But it does not help when both the maturities and the needs at the same time have increased much more than the appropriations made available by the government. Not enough: in 2010, the government transferred 17 000 km of bad roads to county councils without any money. Only in Uppland and Hedmark have now been dragged up in 2.6 billion. kr. The county council says right away that this is money they don't have. The Progress Party knows that if we are to make progress in the improvements and investments we are facing in the road sector, we must dare to think again. We must dry up to lift road and rail development out of the state budget. We have to make sure that the money actually follows the projects. Does the Council of State think that 20 years to build 90 km of motorways are acceptable time use, or does she agree that we must have much greater ambitions than this? Will the Minister for Transport take responsibility for contributing to the county councils getting the funds to clean up the bad road network, or does she not care about the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e104	I am happy that I am a member of a government that invests in transportation. I can't go well for what's happened in the last 20 years, but what I can tell you is the last six. Then Hoksrud will know that we have not only allowed more money, even if it means that we have increased the transport budget by over 50 pst., increase the road budget by over 50 pst., increase the rail investment by even more – we have triple investments for the railways – and we will continue to ask the authorities to plan for different frameworks. The county road network is an important part of this. It is no longer true even if Hoksrud repeats that it did not follow the money when the roads were transferred to the county municipalities. On the contrary, it was an extensive calculation, which I don't have time to go into here now, but it's about extra funds, 1 billion. kr, which is about funds for the roads that were transferred, and is about a loan framework for the maintenance of 2 billion. kr every year. So to think about it anew – out of the state budget. What's absolutely certain is that now when we're going to bet even more on the relationship that we're going to do, the answer is both long-termity and foresight. We're going to discuss very carefully different funding arrangements, but so far we've set up funds for the projects that are realized over these six years, and there's not a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e113	It's nice to hear the council boasting of how great it is that you've added 50 pst. What is at least the fact is that in 2012 this government will build 11 km of motorway and 17 km of middle parts. It boasts and is satisfied when we know that we have multiple, even tens of thousands of miles of road that is in a wretched state, both on the main road network and not least on the county road network. I note that the Council of State says that this government has sent a lot of money to the county municipalities. But what will the Council of State say to the county rapporteurs in Hedmark and Oppland that they need $2.6 billion? kr just to take in the aftermath? Other county municipalities are in an equally poor situation, perhaps even worse in some county municipalities. So the Council of State says you have increased the appropriations. It doesn't help them. They need a clear answer: Do you want to contribute more money, or are they still going to live on the hunger line, with poor road networks for the inhabitants of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e120	I can't do good for Bård Hoksrud's numbers. It's e.g. so that 53 km is completed when middle measures are involved. But what I can say, and I think Hoksrud and I'm a few about, is that there's a lot of mess when it comes to transportation. But Hoksrud can't close his eyes because there's actually a lot of good road work going on across the country now, both maintenance and new projects. Eight are completed in 2012, and there are notices of up to 18 new, larger road projects in 2012 So to the highways. I'm also busy securing the county councils more long-termity and greater foresight. It's great that the Progress Party is coming after that. Later today, the focus will also be on county roads, as well as much more. We have a lot of racial protection – in addition to other means – and in the next period we will look very carefully at how we can secure the county municipalities further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e127	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e130	Seven out of ten are dissatisfied with the road standard. One of the reasons for this is a comprehensive county road network in very poor condition. Overall, road maintenance is well lagging behind on the county road network of well over 20 billion. kr, and – as we heard in the introduction – delayed only for the two counties Hedmark and Uppland are at 2.6 billion. kr. What is the long-term plan for the users of the county road network? How many decades are they going to wait for a satisfactory road standard? We have a fresh scale in the settlement after the flood in 2011, where this Council of State, together with the country's Prime Minister, among others. was in Uppland and promised to cover all the costs. The Transport Committee has just been to Oppland, and then the countyman told me that there was still about 10 million missing. kr in relation to the invoices and requirements submitted. Why have you not followed up on your promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e139	We will be presented with their proposals for a national transport plan. When the clock is twelve today, the political process begins for real. These include: Also the county roads and how we're going to follow what we've already done, an important theme. One of the suggestions I know is that there's a programme for the follow-up of the county roads. Some municipalities have already started and are in full swing with creation. It's not like there's a lot of people around in the county municipalities and just watching that there's nothing happening. On the contrary, there are also improvements on many county roads. But it's a lot to do, and we're going to do it in a little bit. The damage caused by the hurricane, the storm, Dagmar no at the turn of the new year shall be reported to the State Road Administration. We'll come back to Stortinget with that as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e146	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e149	The Council of State said in its first reply to the representative Hoksrud that road appropriations had increased by 50 pst. Has increased the number of kilometers by 50 pst.? The answer is no, and it illustrates the problem of today's way of planning, building and financing the road and the track. The right is concerned that we're thinking new. Soon only the Prime Minister will not want to think again about planning for each year's budget, creating state development companies, thinking about new ways of financing. The headline is to find new solutions, so that we can get more asphalt and more double tracks. Thinks the Council of State that it might be wise to convince the Prime Minister that it is wise to think new, so that it becomes 50 pst. several kilometres of asphalt as appropriations increase immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e159	Maybe the math of the representative Schou is a little bit simpler. I'm not going into that right now, but it's a pleasure for me to report – as I've informed Stortinget before – that we have started two special projects from the department's side, just to look at different forms of funding. They will then be involved and form the basis for the next national transport plan. So there's going to be a debate both in the government and in the Stortning when it comes to different forms of funding. So what's important is long-termity, that's foresight. More research has one mission, Vista Analysis has the other. I look forward to an exciting debate on this. But Ingard Schou doesn't have to forget that there's a lot of good things going on in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e164	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e167	The council said it's happening very well. At least that's very good in the debate on transportation. Today we wake up early to the fact that Hallgeir H. Langeland said he is open to alternative financing of Norwegian railways. We feel that the Progress Party, which only a few years ago said Norway was not fit for the railway, is now positive to it. We see that the Norwegian railway needs greater care. Now there are many exciting plans – the last plans for the intercity triangle, the intercity sections. Then my question is: will the Council of State suggest that a national rail settlement can be presented to the National Transport Plan – when Norwegian rail needs to be taken care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e176	It sounds like there are a lot of people who want to stand behind a deal, many who want to support the government's offensive commitment to trade. As you can see, there is a good start in the debate that is now going to be both on the framework, on the distribution of roads and on funding. Let me just underline: long-sightedness and foresight are important in the future. So I guess the committee's leader, who runs these journeys around the Kingdom, can confirm that there's a lot of good going on in the field of transportation already right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e181	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e184	Yes, the Council of State can only stand. Today the floors come with their input to the National Transport Plan, and I hope that the headline of it is that it should not be on them, but that it is the government that gets the ball. Former Minister of Transport Navarsete said it would smell asphalt all over the country on the state roads. The common response of the Council of State when we come up with these kinds of challenges is that there is no government that has granted more – and then I can add – and that has not got exactly these 50 psts on asphalt, when the budget is increased so much. But my question to the state council is about this smell and the eigen of asphalt also has reached the state council of Meltveit Kleppa. Does she think it smells like asphalt all over the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e193	I hope that during the summer – which is then the asphalt season – something like that smelled like asphalt in Eastfold in the summer of 2011 too, because at least something bit bit bit of asphalt was laid, as was the case in the other counties. There is a custom application we are now following. Asphalt is an important part of maintenance on the Norwegian road. In 2011, the state road authorities received the amount they asked for when it was a gallant maintenance, and it was actually an increase of 60 pst. It also underlines the importance of taking care of the road network we have. So at the same time, we've gone on with the high level of maintenance, and we've arranged for further projects. This year, we're going to open up eight new, bigger projects on the national road network. We have notified up to 18 new, larger projects for Stortinget. They're going to have the Stortinget decide what to do about it. When it comes to their overall frameworks, they are asked to submit proposals for different frameworks. One option is 45 pst. plus. The government has no position for the frames, nor for the contents, at this time. I mean, that's just supposed to be missing. It is the Stortinge to decide what the national transport plan will finally look like, and it will happen in the spring of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e200	This smell of asphalt hopes the Council of State that someone should have known. I haven't known it, and most people probably haven't known this smell of asphalt either. We're probably there that most people aren't busy with so many billions, but because it actually becomes more asphalt, it becomes more roadway. And now we're talking about the state roads. The fact is that there is as little as one in 10 kroner that is used for asphalt and road foundations for maintenance in the item that deals with this in the state budget. The other money goes to the administration, to bureaucracy and to the operation of the state's roads and not to asphalt. Is it right for the government to present it as the smell of asphalt that is the most prominent, when the money does not actually go to what the government council is now explaining to the Storting that they are going to?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e207	The money that we have reported to the Storting must go to maintenance, including asphalt, goes to it. Here's a long-term run to asphaltize the highway network. We have a routine of renewal when a road starts to break down. Where it happens from state to state, the State Road Administration may say even more precisely, but at least I have received feedback from a separation that was going on this summer, which experienced looting and embezzlement because there was a sign of road work. It galled both asphalting and other roadworks. Comfort is that it gets better and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e212	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e215	I am a fairly young representative, and hopefully both sense of smell and hearing are in place. After traveling a lot around the West this summer, it is clear that some of the senses must have failed me. I knew no oak of asphalt in Hordaland or in More and Romesdal. What I can hear, on the other hand, is a silent prayer from Westerners about more, better and safer roads. After the counties were transferred 17 000 km by road, the Council of State is aware of developments: there has been an increase in bureaucracy, and many municipalities have raised a lot of new debts. At the same time, we see that the State Road Administration has considerably increased its administration, even though it is responsible for a smaller road. The roads in Norway are over-administered and under-asphalted. How will the Council of State attack this to ensure that we get a better use of the means that the Storting decides to build roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e225	The government wants a way to get the money. But some administration actually needs to, to both contract, follow up running operations and not least plan. The state's road system does what they can to keep the administration at the desired level. The option is in many contexts. That's what we want to keep down, just to get the most way for the money. When it comes to the county council, we have put in place something called the same road administration. This means that the State Road Service still has important tasks to do, even in the case of the county road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e232	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e235	I register that the smell of asphalt has been a topic for the previous speakers. I'm going to admit that yes, it smelled a little bit bit bit bit of asphalt in Telemark, and I think it smelled a little bit bit bit bit bit bit bit bit of asphalt in the whole country. But the problem is that it's going to smell less asphalt in 2012 than it did in 2011, because the government has actually reduced the allocation to asphalt in 2012. You go from 1,000 km in 2011 to 600 to 800 km in 2012, so there will be at least a longer time between each time you smell a little new asphalt. I think everyone is happy in asphalt, but I also want to challenge the Council of State in terms of road bureaucracy. Why is it that they have twice as much way in Sweden as we have in Norway, but we have almost as many employees? We have employed over 1,000 new people in the road bureaucracy only in a few years. In addition, we have also said that we should have more way out of the money. Then we don't have to spend more on bureaucracy, we actually need to spend the money building a road. In Sweden, unlike Norway, they build 200 km in the middle. In Norway we build 17 km.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e242	First of all, I hope that the representative Hoksrud will also register that these days asphalt contracts will be concluded for asphaltification in 2012. It is then after this program that the State Road Service is now following, and I am happy to be in place. So to the bureaucracy, the government wants the way – and I can go – for the money. That's what the main part of the permissions are going to be. So the organization in Sweden and Norway is not easy to compare directly, rather the number of kilometers, because Sweden started building at a much earlier time, for example. three-fold road. But the way for the money is the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e249	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e252	The Council of State now concluded by saying that'more money is worth the point', and I agree with that. But it's a challenge with the way we've organized the sector today, that we don't get enough money left. Here, the Council's own party leader, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up a reorganization and a innovation. I have to say that it is important that a listener listens to the party leader and has respect for the party leader. That's a good principle. Then is my question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State follow up the ideas pointed out by its own party leaders – that we need a reorganisation, that we need a new funding when it comes to rail and road?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e259	The answer is yes. The answer is an absolute yes to follow up what party leader Liv Signe Navarsete has highlighted in public space when it comes to alternative funding, that is, the change in the system that she has called for. So in this four-year period, funding is fixed. There are local contributions, tolls and public funds on the way, and there are public funds to go. But I haven't ordered these two items when it comes to different forms of funding, to accept them and put them in a drawer. I have taken the view that they should be included and used in the debate we are going to have on funding forms in the next national transport plan. So that answer comes in the spring of 2013, but all of it has to be paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e266	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e269	I thought it was very positive what the Council of State now ended up saying, that it stated that just alternative funding would be an important part of the national transport plan. So we get the supporting material for the very national transport plan presented today. We know that March 19th in 2012, that is, in just 19 days, we get Nordmann No. Five million in Norway. In 1975 we passed 4 million in our country. So it took 37 years for us to go from 4 million in this country to 5 million, 37 years. So we know that according to the SSB, we'll be 6 million in 2030. That means it's only 18 years until the next million come. It will take less than half the time it took us to go from 4 million to 5 million, to go from 5 million to 6 million. It's a challenge. That's exactly the increase in the population we're experiencing, not least in the vicinity of our big cities, which is a special challenge. Governments have said that we should have a tip-top road and rail network within 20 years. But what we also know is that cows are growing. We know that traffic has grown more than we have expected. We know that more people are forced to travel collectively, and we know that it costs money when more people travel collectively. That's why my question is to the Council of State: will the Council of State suggest that we get our own collective strategy into the next NTP, focusing on the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e278	The answer is yes. We ordered a job from the universities. One of them is just making suggestions on how the state can co-finance a collective strategy, a collective approach in our larger urban areas, to a greater extent than today. That's because the growth that we're now seeing is going to happen so far in the whole country, but he's the largest in our major urban areas, and both the area, soil protection and the problem of the queue mean that collective growth must take place. So collective provision must be improved. From the department's side, we've already been banned. We've organized ourselves with a private collective project that's going to cover that issue. And then we've got some distributions, and we're probably getting even more moments today -- not only about how we're going to handle growth, but also about how we're going to spread growth. The Intercity Strategy is one of several examples of a strategy where one can spread growth in the most central eastern region. I look forward to exciting debates on exactly this in the hearings, the ones we're about to meet with the county councils. Then it is important to stress that this is both about a strengthened collective effort in the cities and about strengthening the road network in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e287	I thank you for your answer. Oslo is the fastest city in Europe. We know that the Stavanger region is the region that grows strongest in Norway. When we have received reports today saying that we can risk travel time towards our big cities being increased by 70 pst. – we also know that climate change can increase by 20 pst. – then this is a big challenge for us. Now the Council of State says that it wants to participate in a co-financing. Is it then right to interpret this in such a way that the Council of State can promise that one will join and support the T-Bahn bet in Oslo, that one will get a urban bet both in Bergen and in Stavanger as monks, so that we can get a real bet on collective action against our big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e297	Now I'm not going to advance the big shot message in 2013, which is also going to be the result of a meeting, of hearings and of listening to those who live most in the different challenges, from urban area to urban area. So the solutions – what it's going to be on – we have to be allowed to come back to. But what I myself am convinced of is that in the next national transport plan, the state will set up a higher level of state co-financing than what we see today, and then we need to have two thoughts in our head: we need to set up more in the central area of collective co-financing, and we need to get more roads in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e302	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e305	I listened carefully to party leader Hareide's questions. I'm going to follow it up. I agree that funding and another system for that is absolutely fundamental to bringing about change, both in the Oslo region and elsewhere. I noticed that State Councillor Kleppa and State Councillor Navarsete have been together and seen the Iron Woman at the cinema. There is no doubt that, if you want to call it that, when it comes to thinking about funding, the Ministry of Finance and the ‘steelman’ is Sigbjørn Johnsen. So my question is, did the Council of State get any inspiration when she saw the Iron Woman, to meet «steelman» Johnsen and get new ideas about financing transportation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e314	I have to admit to the representative Syversen that I don't have to go to cinema to get inspiration to be in the government, and I have a lot of people with me there. The decisions that until now have been taken before trafficking, which means a lift in the 2005 vows, are a collective government that has stood by. It is also the case that the guidelines on which the trade unions have now worked – which they provide today, and which thus involve proposals within a significantly increased framework – have also been implemented by a collective government. So I look forward to the continuation, both to the realisation of the project in 2012 and 2013 and to an ambitious national transport plan, which the government will present.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e321	Jan-Henrik Fredriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e324	I have always known that there is a lot of power in the folded hands, but that there was so much money there, is completely new! I can't see how the Christian People's Party is going to finance its projects, because they don't have more money to go through than the sitting government has in its budgets. Yes, we need reorganisation, but we also need more money! The Progress Party is called financially irresponsible by both Hareide and the Council of State for its commitment to transport, where we call for the renewal of Norway with effective roads and runways over 25 years, among others. through a fund of 500 billion. kr for this extension. Does the Council of State think that there is someone out there who believes in her promise to renew Norway in 20 years, within the so-called responsible, economic framework, which the Council of State still insists is the only one responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e331	It is that different parties have their programs and their solutions. I have to say that I feel more comfortable now to realize projects for the purposes of the Norwegian economy, rather than turning around with numbers and projects that it must be difficult to sew together – this is where plans, competence and execution of other projects are to be addressed. Today it was completely new to me that the Progress Party was five years behind in relation to the government – it was new.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e336	The government is now within its seventh year, and there has been innovation both in the Center Party and in SV. That's good, because every time the Right has called for new forms of funding, new forms of planning and new organisation, so that we can get the tip of both road and rail, we've been called irresponsible. But with this new impetus that has come on both the SV and the Central Party, I think I almost have to ask the Council of State how the Council of State has thought that the Prime Minister can become a little more responsible, willing and eager to get more good way and path.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e341	That's the Prime Minister's answer to himself. In fact, the Prime Minister has also been behind the projects and budgets that have been put forward so far. It is not that only the budget has been increased. The number of projects has also increased, and road and rail construction is now taking place in a large number of places. The Prime Minister has put himself behind the orders that have gone to the trade unions, and the proposal that they are making today. It is also a national decision in the Workers' Party that is indebted to funding. So I thought this would promise very well, I, in relation to ambitious plans ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e346	I want to go back to the main question from the representative Hareide about population growth. Monday morning there was again a full train stop in the Oslo tunnel. One train ran against the red light and damaged two switches. With several tunnels available, we had avoided thousands of travelers being hit. Yesterday, however, the evening post reads that the proposal for a new national transport plan recommends postponing the issue of new train and T-Bahn tunnels under Oslo. Exploring further is a well-known term for postponing things. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that it is possible to take traffic growth in Oslo and surrounding it collectively without a decision to set up a new tunnel under Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e355	Today there are 19 trains per hour in the Oslo Tunnel. It will run until 25 in 2014. We're going to create a new base path model that means 26 pst. several train passengers may travel here in the central Oslo area. It is also discussed whether the capacity can be increased further by turning some trains on Oslo S. So I think it's important to think longer than the existing Oslo tunnel, even though much is better now when he's being upgraded. A concept currency execution, KVU, is necessary before taking a position on a new railway tunnel. It should be carried out in cooperation between the Railway Agency and the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e361	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e364	I see that the Minister for Transport went and sat down, and she will be allowed to do so, because I will ask the following questions to the Council of State Breck: We have seen for a long time that Norway has among the absolute highest food prices in Europe. Now we have received research reports that show that even if we calculate the level of pay we have in Norway, we still have significantly higher food prices. In addition, the Minister of Agriculture has presented an agricultural communication which is almost exclusively intended to continue the current policy. So you don't take into account all the ideas and changes that should have taken place at the system level in agriculture. In this respect, I would like to refer to the proposal that the Progress Party has been promoting earlier today, which is linked to the distinction between the market player role and the regulatory role of Tine, Nortura and the cereals sector. If we look at previous statements, you can see that Tine takes self-criticism for the butter shortage. We see Norwegian consumers sponsor the Americans with cheap Jarlsbergost – in 2010 11 million kg were exported. It costs Norwegian taxpayers half a billion through the milk price. Furthermore, in Bondebladet, we see that we owe it to the low carbot trend for lack of Christmas ribs. There is no lack of excuses. My challenge to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State be willing to take a look at the system? And will the Council of State now consider the proposals of the Progress Party to distinguish market players from regulators in the dairy, meat and cereals sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e375	The questions asked here by the representative Nesvik are complicated. What is important to take on board, I think, also for Nesvik, is that agricultural policy in Norway is based on three pillars. It is based on the protection of imports, it is based on close cooperation between industry and authorities, and it is based on the organisation of the industry in an agricultural cooperative that takes co-responsibility for implementing the policy. Both Tine, Nortura, the Joint Purchase and various cooperative organisations are important actors in this picture. What is being presented here as challenges on the part of the Progress Party is also, in a sense, an attack on the system we have. When mentioning the butter issue, the challenge is not that of butter, but that there is disagreement in the Norwegian food model, where one has both import protection, cooperation between industry and authorities and a cooperative that works very well. The example of butter being pulled out was an example of poor craftsmanship, but it was not an example that the system has failed at all, in my opinion. In the agricultural communication that has been submitted, we have said that we should continue the Norwegian model. We have said that we should continue strong import protection, we have said that we should continue negotiations with the organisations, and we have said that we should have market regulation as a system that should contribute to stability and predictability both for the consumer and for farmers. I have presented the government's policy in the agricultural and food communication. It is for treatment in Stortinget, and I look forward to that treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e386	The undersigned also looks forward to the treatment, but unfortunately I do not look forward to the result, as the red-greens have a majority in this room. I am not promoting any criticism of the system. Because when you get butter shortages, when you have meat shortages and you have problems in the egg market, yeah, it shows that it's the ability to plan for the future that's the problem. It's on the regulator. If you don't want to start at least a review of how the system's failure turns in here, then I'm worried. What's interesting about the pillars that the Minister of Agriculture outlined here is that there was one group that he didn't mention, and it was consumers, those who actually have to pay the bill for this. So you're not interested in them. My challenge to Breck is then the following – based on what I have said related to lack of butter, lack of meat and egg problems: Does the Council of State not see that this is part of the regulatory role?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e395	There has never been any problem that Norwegian consumers lack access to enough food, and that is what is the starting point for the regulatory role. If there is too little of a Norwegian raw material, this Norwegian raw material is supplemented by imports — a system that has been in use for many, many years. It is a system that was used now in the case of butter, it is a system that was used in the case of meat. In the case of eggs, we have adapted production in a very favourable way to a new legislation introduced from the turn of the year. If we are talking about market regulation as a system, it is that in the case of overproduction, agriculture itself has to cover the cost of falling prices, and producers have to pay an increased turnover tax. It ensures that we have a balance between the market and production. The fact that the industry itself has to take responsibility in that way, makes sure that we have a system that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e402	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Torgeir Treldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e405	We hear the council say it's not a system failure. But we've had a butter crisis, a rib crisis and a peanut crisis. At the same time, 10 pst. of all our milk exported to Jarlsbergost. Had we kept that milk at home in our own country, there might not have been any butter crisis. Then there's only one thing to say – that there's a system failure. The system is not working, so we have to make changes in order for Norwegian consumers to get what they need. Then you see what you spend money on the farm. It covers 24 jobs at a value of 35 million. kr above the budget, posts that could have been placed under, among others. State agricultural management. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think it is more important to spend 35 million. on red tape in agricultural cooperation than to ensure that food prices to the Norwegian consumer remain low?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e414	It is wrong that we have a large bureaucracy in Norwegian agriculture. It is wrong because this bureaucracy, which is attacked repeatedly after the Progress Party, has a different responsibility than just caring for the peasant. They're responsible for a whole value chain. The Food Authority is responsible for industry, and it is responsible for the food industry. There are hundreds of thousands of employees in the industries covered by the entire value chain. I want to stress that there is a great paradox that the government is accused of the system not being able to deliver enough products, of a party that wants to break down the whole system itself by having a free adjustment, with the consequences it will have for agriculture. The policy of the Progress Party, which is not being discussed, either in this question-making process or otherwise, would have led to the fact that we would not have managed to maintain this production in Norway. We would have imported the goods instead, and I think that is a worse solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e421	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e424	It is a pity that the Council of State meets this important debate by pulling the cooperative hat as well into his eyes as he does. What is central here is not what has happened in market regulation with butter crises and beef crises. The central point of this, and which I have to ask the Council of State to respond to, is whether it is unfortunate for market regulation that some market players, such as Tine and Nortura, are also market regulators and sit and have market transparency that they get in a completely different way – at least earlier – than the other actors. Does the Council of State think that competition in this market is a good thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e429	Through this market regulation system – through the Norwegian model – we have ensured that there is competition in the dairy sector by ensuring that both the Q-meierienen and Synnovene Find are capable and proper actors who deliver products to the Norwegian market and compete with Tine. It's also part of the Norwegian system. I can't help but see that it's a problem that a market regulator has knowledge of the market, that they come with knowledge of value flows. We have seen examples in other countries of market regulation systems. Let me also underline that many countries have market regulation systems – including the EU. Other countries have opted for public bodies or other actors to be responsible for market regulation, in which case both wine lakes and butterbergs would have been produced in the EU. We have not had any problems with this in Norway at all. We have a very good system. It is important that the actors do a good job within the framework of this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e437	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e440	The Minister of Agriculture can only stand straight. My question is addressed to the Council of State Breck. Last year's Robbery Agreement, adopted at Stortinget, is an important political document for two of the industries for which the Council of State of Breck is responsible, namely agriculture and reindeer farming. In a dedicated article in Trønder-Avisa from 17 February 2012, I see that Council of State Breck is quoted as saying that SV's behaviour in predatory game policy threatens the legitimacy of the looting agreement in Stortinget. Here I would like to add that those who are really threatened are the legitimate industries such as agriculture, travel and sanitation, when you look at how SV manages its field of competence. It is most unusual in Norwegian political history that you have two small parties – here you can read the Center Party and SV – that act as private-sector government members. The government came unusually enough to the Storting to ask for a settlement in the robberies case, and came to Stortinget with a shared setting. The Storting took responsibility and was negotiated a good decision that was well received by the industry outside. When the wild game decision is to be put into practice, SV allows itself to change the model for the calculation of stock targets in contravention of the collapse decision that has just been reached. In addition, another important point of the robberies agreement, which is the regional governance of the predatory game policy, is being overcome. That State Council Breck travels home to Trøndelag and sits down a little because you are not satisfied with SV, does not last completely. What would have been right here was to lock the government partners in an office, so that they could not get out until they had at least agreed that a decision to collapse is also binding on the government. Now you'd rather think of it as a guide. Now it is not entirely new that SV makes its own rules, but we can almost not be aware of it on behalf of the industries for which we are responsible. Is the Council of State correctly quoted in Trønder-Avisa, and what does the Council of State think he can do to get the management of the Robbery Decision on the right track?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e453	The President has only to note that the administration of the Robbery Decision is constitutionally under the auspices of another Council of State, but it would not surprise the President if the Council of State wanted to answer anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e456	I would love to. As I said, the Ministry of the Environment, not SV, is responsible for following up the rapprochement, a settlement that I also agree with the representative, Bakke-Jensen, that was very good and that I fully support. After all, the background to this infested game agreement in 2011 was an unacceptable level of conflict in view of the loss of grazing animals, both small-poultry and reindeer. Although I am not directly responsible for the follow-up to the robberies agreement, a good follow-up of this is also important to me as Minister of Agriculture and Food in order to ensure the basis for a viable business based on land use. The strengthening of the local administration, which I have commented on in the article that the representative Bakke-Jensen mentions, was an important point, in my opinion, in the robberies agreement in 2011. It's a little bit of a joke. Gaupa stands today for one third of the replaced sheep lost to predatory game and is the biggest pests on tamrein. It was then natural for me, as I have also mentioned with the Minister for the Environment, that I pointed out that it was unfortunate that the Ministry of the Environment has overestimated the decision on the gaupe quota. I confirm that, and I confirm that I have said what is in that article.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e465	Now the Environment Minister in Stortinget was yesterday, but there was no sign that there were plans to make major changes in that part, so I'm not quite sure that the Council of State has heard with both ears. What is a bit of the problem here is that we have a business life — agriculture and sanitation — that is to deal with policy decisions and that is to plan our everyday life in relation to a government. Although it is the responsibility of other government councils, it must at least be that the Council of State responsible for agriculture and reindeer farming really stands up for its industries when you see that it carries so badly on farms as it does here. My next question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see any possibility that he may stand up for his industries and in some way give the decision of the Robbery and the Robbery policy a greater legitimacy under a red-green regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e474	There is no doubt that the Minister of Agriculture and Food stands up for both reindeer farming and other grazing industries. It is an important task for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in general, it is an important task in the context of economic conditions, and it is not least an important task in relation to the major challenges of predatory game that we have lived with for many years. The starting point for me has been that we should follow up on the robberies agreement adopted here in Stortinget – of course it should. There are discussions between SV and the Center Party in this area, it has been persistent, and it will probably be in the future. My ambition is, of course, to ensure that we have a situation in which the decisions of predators become the starting point. I have also brought that up with the Minister for the Environment in direct contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e481	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Bjørn Lødemel.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e484	The Council of State criticises the colleague of the government of Solheim at the annual meeting of the Central Party of Nord-Trøndelag joins a long line of strong attacks from central party councils to own government and own government policies. The former Riis-Johansen State Council promised in 2008 that the government would take a force to mitigate the robberies conflicts. The central party leader, Liv Signe Navarsete, has stated that there are many examples of arrogance from predatory game management. The council itself has previously stated that there is too much gloat, yew and bear, and now he comes with this broadside towards his own government. I've previously asked central government councils about the conscious double communication, and I'll use this to challenge the state council whether it's not that government's policy is also the Center Party's policy when it comes to pillage management and predatory game.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e491	What is the government's policy, of course, is also the central party's policy. As I said to the previous questioner, we have had a discussion about the interpretation of the looting game settlement now in the last time after one made the decisions in the predatory game subjects. One has also had discussions in the past between the two government parties on predatory game policy – we have had to take it. I'm concerned that we're going to make sure that we get together the forces of the government in this area. I cannot accept that we do not take the robberies settlement seriously in Stortinget, and that is what I have pointed out in my comments earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e498	Torgeir Treldal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e501	Agriculture is struggling. The cleaning industry and the sheep industry are struggling because of too many predators. The predators have taken over much of the country around, making it difficult to drive. That's also one of the reasons why profitability is bad. State Council Solheim is responsible for the looting game settlement, but he's not following it up. This is a deliberate system change by changing stock target calculations. Until now, I have only heard the Minister of Agriculture and others in the Central Party say that they disagree with it. It has not been seen that the Council of State stands up for the industries and helps industries that are struggling. You said earlier here that you have a discussion with, among other things. Government SV. What about the Workers' Party – aren't they in government? Don't they talk to you? My question is, When are you going to intervene? And the centre party, who loves to take this one, can't they put this one in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e511	I am not aware that the Centre Party loves to ‘set this one’s’, as the representative, Mr. Treldal, here points out. I'm familiar with the fact that the Center Party has sometimes researched important things. It's probably an exception, and, let me say it like that, it should be an exception. What we're talking about here is the follow-up to the Robbery Agreement in Stortinget. That has been the starting point for my comments. What I've also said to previous questioners is that it's important to me that we deal with the deal, and that we take care of the predators as institutions. Their decision should not have been reversed. That is what I have mentioned with my colleague in the Ministry of the Environment, and what we are working to clarify. It's not like we're doing this kind of discussion in all the public, but right in the predatory game area, I've felt that it's been necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e520	Line Henriette Hemdal – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e523	In the 2004 and 2011 agreement on predators, we have a two-part objective: we need both agriculture with animals on pasture and we need predators. As one of the negotiating parties now in the 2011 agreement, it was important for us to be involved in a settlement in order to bring down the level of conflict, but also in order to increase confidence in making decisions closer to those that are really affected. In the predatory agreement, it says: ‘It is a common objective that the loss figures for the grazing industry should decrease. The zone layout must be clearly managed.’;» It also states: ‘In priority grazing areas, the extraction of animals causing grazing animals must be carried out quickly, and in such areas environmental management must contribute more than at present to the efficiency of such extractions, regardless of whether the stock target has been reached.’ State councils in Stortinget say it's taken up, and it's working on the regional objectives. But is the council satisfied as he sees it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e540	There can be no doubt that I am not satisfied with the situation right now – that is why I have raised this matter. I see it as very serious because I am concerned that we are going to follow up the robberies agreement, of which I am a strong follower, here in Stortinget. It is clear that when you change the decision at the first crossroads after we have got a rapture settlement, as it has happened in this case, I perceive it unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e545	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e557	There is one change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment is proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 2, from the representative Kjell Ingolf Ruppstad to the Minister of Justice, will be taken up by Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e570	‘The central administration of criminal justice proposes, in a draft consultation, that Haugesund prison and Sandeid prison be laid down and replaced by a new prison of 100 places. Prisons are in poor condition, and prisons in Haugesund are the country's second most expensive to operate due to extreme small-scale operating disadvantages. The savings from bringing together the prison activities in a new prison are estimated to be 100 million in the plan alone. kr. Does the Council share the view that new prisons are necessary and profitable, and when can a case be brought before the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e577	As I explained in the Question Time of 1 February this year on questions from the representative of Jan Arild Ellingsen, the Ministry of Justice has given the Central Administration of the Criminal Service, the KSF, the task of developing an overall capacity plan with unit structure for the prisons and the Free Care Offices. The plan shall assess how the capacity of criminal services should be put together to meet future capacity needs and to facilitate the implementation of penalties in accordance with the intentions of St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08 Punishment that works — less crime — safer societies. The notification was submitted on 26 September 2008. The KSF was also commissioned to assess how the units should be located, inter alia. the subsidiarity principle and the residence of the prisoners and the size of the units should be in order to ensure a good level of content in the implementation of the penalties. The plan shall assess the structural state of the units and how prisons should be designed to meet the requirements of modern criminal execution. The KSF has recently sent a draft capacity plan at an internal hearing in the department. Upon completion of the hearing, the KSF will prepare the draft plan, which will be forwarded to the Ministry of Justice after discussion with the civil servants’ organisations under the Main Agreement of the State. The KSF aims to submit its capacity plan proposal to the Ministry during the first six months of this year. I am aware that several of the prisons have a maintenance kit and are not properly designed for the criminal execution to which it is posted in St.meld. No Thirty-seven. However, I do not want to be able to advance what action should be prioritised before the Ministry has received the final plan from the KSF and received the full picture of the proposals. So I'll come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with the proposals that might be prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e593	Today we have 44 prisons and 16 prison departments in Norway. That's a total of 60 pieces. 35 of these have less than 50 places, and 25 has over 50. The time is ripe for a structural change in the Norwegian prison system. That is why the Minister of Finance listens to this discussion, because there is an excessive need for a new prison in the Haugesund region. On page 59 of the report, in the first copy, it states that if the total operating costs of Haugesund prison and Sandeid prison are reduced by 10 p.m. in the case of co-location in new buildings, savings may cover increased rentals for an investment of approximately 100 million. kr. This is a pretty interesting sum that shows that society can save large sums by, among other things. To join Haugesund Prison and Sandeid Prison and build a new one. When will the Council of State invite the Stortinge to debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e602	There are interesting questions that are addressed in this capacity plan which is now being consulted in the department and which are, as I said, planned that after negotiations with the civil service organisations, the KSF will present them to the Ministry of Justice during the first six months. However, we do not have a long-term plan for criminal care, as we know the long-term plans of the transport sector and the Defence. So what measures it is right to prioritise, and what timetable we want for both improvement and renewal measures, we will come back to in ordinary budgetary processes. But I feel that the capacity plan will nevertheless be a very important basic document when we step by step are going to renew and reinforce what is already among the world's best criminal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e607	The principle of subsidiarity is that those who are convicted should once again return to society. So it's okay to have the sentence in a prison where it's okay to have a family on a visit, and where you have friends and social networks, but also closeness to where you're going to get out. But this also affects the goal of having as many policemen as possible patrolling the streets to use such an expression. It's like in this police district, they spend a lot of time picking up custody prisoners, driving to and from courtrooms. They like to fly up to North Norway and to different parts of the country. Lawyers do the same thing. The Court of First Instance shall bear extreme costs. The Courts of Justice are ordered to pay considerable costs. Policemen are sitting on two flights almost daily instead of being out. So there are major socio-economic savings that are partly carried out here in the criminal justice system. I repeat my invitation to the Council of State: When will she come to this region to get involved in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e616	I aim to visit the region in a short time. I would like to stress, as Mr Kambe did, that the principle of subsidiarity is important in criminal matters. It is also ensuring good soaking and maintenance sites. Of course, I'm familiar with the transport challenge that we have related to the criminal justice system. And once again, this is important consideration to take into account when we're going to weigh how we ensure good atonement, good content in the atonement and best possible ensures against relapse, and that we're in a good way ensuring the basic good opportunity to move on in the lives of people after an end of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e625	This question, from the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ruppstad to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative of Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e628	‘TV 2 reports that half of the family violence coordinators are assigned to other tasks and that some do not use more than 30 pst. of working time on family violence – despite the fact that in 2009, the Council of State claimed that there were full-time coordinators in all the 27 police districts here to land, and is repeated in the Action Plan against violence in close relations in 2012. The family-level coordinators are employees in 100 pst. position, but how much of the time do they actually use as a family violence coordinator?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e635	Combating violence in close relationships is one of the main areas of action of this government. An important objective is to ensure that those who are subjected to violence in a close relationship know that there is help. Violence perpetrated within the four walls of the house does not provide a basis for impunity, rather on the contrary. This is serious crime where the consequences for the exposed person are often long-term and profound. In recent years, in order to emphasise the seriousness of the situation, we have made a significant increase in the level of penalties for violence and abuse. The system of own family violence coordinators is an important part of the police's work on this area of crime. The close relationship between the victim and the perpetrator gives matters a dimension that requires specific competence, insight and empathy from the police. Family violence coordinators have such competence. The individual police district is provided with coordinators in 100 pst. Position, cf. the guidelines provided by the Directorate of Police on 10 March 2008. It is also clear from the guidelines that separate teams are to be set up in the larger districts. The current monitoring carried out by TV 2 is appropriate to raise doubts as to the functioning of the scheme after its intention. The study shows, inter alia: that several family violence coordinators declare to use only 50 pst. of working time on violence in close relationships. One of the coordinators asked even indicates a time use of between 20 and 30 pst. TV 2 has also taken a closer look at the issue of setting up their own family violence teams in the large districts. Here it emerges that the teams established in, for example, Hordaland, Søndre Buskerud, and Salten only cover the larger cities in these districts, respectively Bergen, Drammen, and Bodø. There should be no doubt about what expectations I have in this matter – family violence coordinators should hold 100 pst. position in their police districts. In order to avoid further confusion as to whether the system works as it is supposed to, I have now asked the Police Directorate to review the situation in all police districts. The review shall include a description of the work of each district against violence in close relations. It shall include, inter alia: a detailed description of the organisational location, job breaks and task portfolio of family violence coordinators. It shall also be stated whether the post is occupied at this stage. If the job break for the family violence coordinator is less than the stated minimum of 100 p.m., I have asked for a detailed explanation of the assessments that underlie this. I have also asked for a detailed description of how the system of my own team works in the districts where they are established. This description shall also explain the extent to which the teams assist other districts, as set out in the 2008 Guidelines of the Directorate of Police. The Police Directorate has been given a deadline of 1 April 2012 to return to the necessary police district overview. When the report is available, I'd like to invite the police director to a meeting. I want to get to the bottom of the facts, to make sure that the guidelines are followed as they are meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e656	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The description of this type of crime I think we in the Stortinget – and also the Council of State – are very much in agreement, and I am very pleased that she is so strongly stressing a personal commitment to putting this kind of violence high on the priority list. What is then the question is about the failure of what has been reported on the work done in the police districts in relation to what the department has thought has actually done work on this type of crime. Isn't the Council of State a little surprised that media has to reveal this kind of failure? Shouldn't there be anything in the reporting to the Council of State that gave it the answer, really?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e665	This is a very serious crime area, and it is important for us to have the right and the good competence in the police districts to do something about it. I will not at this point wonder if there is a failure in what has been reported. I can't, however, let alone be concerned about the headlines that have come into the media, and there's something of the background that I've asked for a new report from the Police Directorate. We can't have this doubt that's been expressed around the actual situation. That's why I've asked the Police Directorate to go into this thoroughly. Also, in a separate meeting with the police director, I want to make sure that this is followed up well in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e676	The question is: ‘The tightening of the bank’s ability to fully finance residential purchases by the financial supervisor has created an increased momentum after the start-up loans of the Husbank. In the scheme, administered by municipalities, people can still have fully funded housing purchases. In the past, the Council of State has stated that this is in order as long as customers are subject to a «special health assessment». Should the banks and local authorities make separate assessments of the adequacy of each applicant for a start-up loan from the Husbank, and do the municipalities have such competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e685	Starting loans are provided by municipalities with funds from the Husbanken. Neither the municipalities nor the Husbank are subject to supervision by the Financial Supervisory Authority, and the guidelines therefore do not include the start-up loan as such. I am not aware that the municipalities have introduced a requirement that the lending rate should not exceed 85 pst. the value of the dwelling. If a borrower wishes to borrow from a bank in conjunction with loans and the loans have pledged in the dwelling, the bank shall, in accordance with the Financial Supervision Guidelines, count with the initial loan in the calculation of the borrower’s lending rate. The starting point is that the lending rate shall not exceed 85 pst. the value of the dwelling. At the same time, it opens to allow you to go beyond 85 pst. This may be done if additional collateral is available or after a specific prudential assessment by the bank. If the borrower only wants to borrow, it is up to the municipality whether it will grant the loan and how much loan the municipality will provide. Municipalities, like banks, are subject to the Financial Contracts Act when providing loans. This includes, inter alia: local authorities must assess the creditworthiness of the borrower and carry out a prudential assessment. This means that they must advise against the loan whose financial capacity or other circumstances indicate that the borrower should consider refraining from taking up the loan. The House Bank has developed a guide to dealing with applications for start-up loans and provides local authorities with training. Given that the losses on start-up loans have been low until now, and the fact that the municipalities have provided start-up loans for many years, I have little reason to believe that the municipalities do not have sufficient competence to assess applications for start-up loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e700	The point of this round is that the Financial Supervisory Authority has stepped up the possibility of providing fully funded housing loans; this has been the intention. But there is one actor in this market that is completely exempt from these guidelines, and it is precisely the House Bank. Thus, there is an actor who can undermine all the intentions of the Financial Supervisory Authority, without it seem that the Minister of Finance considers it to be fundamentally objectionable or practical. What I want to do is: once just the banks themselves have made these assessments earlier, and had almost zero in the losses on mortgages for many years, it'll nevertheless be a tightening, because one believes people are borrowing too much, while equity that comes from starting loans, obviously is not equity; it's also borrowed money. The Minister of Finance doesn't see the challenge: on the one hand, you tighten up, and on the other hand, you have an open valve that allows people to borrow as much as they can, and that this is only going to distort competition in favour of the House Bank, but also completely meaningless and bureaucratic in relation to loan customers who could rather get the entire loan in a bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e707	As I said in my answer, the municipalities are subject to the Financial Contracts Act. That means they're going to do a credit rating, that means they're going to do a credit assessment, just like banks are going to do when they get a loan request. To further clarify it, if you look at the initial loan in the first half of 2011, the municipalities gave half of the discount. About half of them were refused – six out of ten were refused due to a lack of ability to pay. In my opinion, it means that the municipalities have made a sound assessment of the borrower, and it shows that this system is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e712	But then there have been changes in the rules from the Financial Supervisory Authority. We read in the Municipal Report last week that the application amount for start-up loans has risen by 30 pst. Ergo gets a lot more people who now apply for money from the municipality because they don't get the money from the bank. Financial supervision has told banks that they are not allowed to do so. The point is probably that the loan rate for many will be almost the same, just that the money comes now from two sources instead of from one source. The approach of the Progress Party is that then the bank, which is also the one who takes risks here and who knows the customer, must be the one who can also do the entire assessment instead of one dividing it by two, and where the last 15 pst. will come from municipal case handlers rather than from the bank. Then my question is: If the House Bank says yes to an application for a start-up loan, it is then that a bank with the initial loan guarantee at the bottom could instead say no, then we will finance it 100 pst. instead of getting 85 pst. from us and 15 pst. from the House Bank? Is that so that a bank could have borrowed 100 pst. only with that document, without the Financial Supervisory Authority having subsequently come and closed [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e721	I think it would be rather complicated if the Minister of Finance were to conduct a loan application procedure from the Parliamentary Chair. I assume that the municipalities are doing their job. I believe they have done so far, and the municipalities are making a health assessment. One can imagine many cases in which a bank also based on a soundness assessment goes beyond 85 pst. I understand basically the point from Solvik-Olsen, but in my view, today's system works well. For further information on the system, the House Bank has some excellent websites that provide good information. At least they've given it to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e732	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the continuation of the ‘success’ with the placing of colorful elgvevir along parts of rv. 3 in Hedmark, in the autumn of 2011, the idea of an 11-metre-high moose was launched along the same route. The state road authority believes in such a solution and regards it as a road safety measure. The artists to make this moose, if any, estimate the price of between 5 and 6 million. kr. Does the Council of State consider this to be the proper use of the limited resources available for road safety measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e741	Riksveg 3 through Østerdalen is an unclosed road. There are many run-out hatches and gusts of elk. The road passes through a relatively uniform forest landscape with a small settlement. In order to break the monotony and make the elk father visible, the State Road Administration has established the R & D project ‘Traficant Experiences’. The placement of colorful artificial elgves has been one of the most important measures in the project to dispel the attention of road users. The project seems so successful. Another important road safety measure has been the improvement of visibility to make it easier to discover cross-country wild game and to open up the landscape to give road users a different perception than dense forest. The so-called big lizard, which the representative thinks of, is thought of by the State Road Service at the main resting place in the middle of the Østerdalen. Financing of the stockpiles is currently not ready. It is appropriate to combine the means of decorating the rest area with road safety devices. Of your project will probably also help to map the Østerdalen and give positive repercussions for tourism in this part of the country, the State Road Administration will try to get external funding. The state road service has also previously funded decorations and structures with great aesthetic value in order to create landmarks and enhance the attention of road users. A relevant example is the Laerdal Tunnel, where the monotony is broken by means of three large mountain rooms with special coloured lighting. Art in roundabouts and special usage instructions are other examples. R & D project on R & D 3 will be evaluated and will provide useful knowledge on how more untraditional measures can help bring down the hatches. The potential is high, there will not be many serious loopholes to ensure that it is socially viable to invest in such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e752	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm not going to say I'm shocked, but I'm almost there. I think it must be completely wrong to spend money on art on one of Norway's most dangerous road sections, such as Rv. 3 is. There's a lot of heavy transport and a lot of goods carried here, and a lot of people are transported. What this section of road requires is maintenance, and there is safety on the road. It could be something as simple as a width extension, straightening out some turns, it could be clearing more along the road for better visibility, etc., and not least asphalting better. Then, in my view and in the view of the Advance Party, it must be completely wrong to get some artists to make the world's highest elk, as this one becomes. The world's highest moose so far is 10 meters, while this has to be 11 meters – if there's any sensation. But it's going to put the Østerdalen on the map, and it's going to increase road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e759	If so, this was the only measure at rv. 3, I get the reaction shock. But it's like rv. 3 is credited with several million kroner per year, both for better maintenance on the roads themselves, for improving visibility, which is an important response to elk spills, and new measures such as: Push bridge, which one is about to start. I mean – if I don't think wrong – that during this period the bet is approx. One hundred million. kr per year on rv. 3 precisely to make the road safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e764	I thank the Council once again for the answer. One of the great things I've been allowed to be a part of as a big-time politician was when we got money put in for Rv. 3 in the context of the 2005 revised State budget. Then it was set by the x number of millions, and it was done quite a lot. Of those millions, it was fixed 11 km north of Rena. There was a tremendous increase in road safety. Then money has been allocated, after pressure from the Progress Party, in the subsequent budgets – and that's good. But politics is about priorities. That's not a matter of priority. 3 is going to be a safe path. Then I ask again, is it right to give priority – let's say five to six million. kr, maybe more – to an 11 meter moose, instead of fixing out some turns that can save damage and perhaps human lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e773	That's very good with the commitment that's for rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's good that Bredvold gets engaged. Of course, I have heard the most from Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum. Now there's a new possibility to discuss this road in a slightly longer term. I am thinking of the National Transport Plan from 2014, which is being presented today. In terms of road safety, I would say: there is a sharp increase in the budget, and at country level there is a corresponding decrease in the number of people killed and badly injured – and fortunately for it. So when it comes to this moose, it's not financed yet, just because it's looking for external contributions and not going to spend 5-6 million. kr of the money for the State Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e784	We're done with the elk!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e791	Here's the theme a completely different one! I have the following questions: ‘The government must take into account the consequence that other of Norway’s largest cities in addition to Oslo are also becoming more dependent on public transport, in particular rail-based, in order to take care of urban growth. Such responsibility should be demonstrated through increased State funding for both investment and operations. Investment in the East should not prevent State investment in Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim as well. Both road and rail should be expanded and public procurement of public passenger transport should be increased. What is the strategy for greater State involvement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e800	Norway is in a time of great increase in the population. It applies to the country as a whole, but especially to the largest urban areas. On average, each person makes three daily trips. This means that for each person the population increases, the number of trips increases by three. This means that public transport must be strengthened. The Ministry of Transport has set up a private public transport project. The project group has been mandated to draw up proposals for a national public transport policy. The project shall develop State objectives for public transport and strategies and plans for the achievement of the objectives. An important task for the project is to assess which measures and instruments are best suited to meet the challenges of public transport. The project group shall be part of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, which will be submitted as planned in spring 2013. There has been a lot of work on upgrading the railway since this government took over. Most of the railway network is located in the Austland, but the investment in the Austland is not a barrier to investment in the other major cities of Norway. There's a new double track between Sandnes and Stavanger. New tunnels through the Gewingåsen are used on the heavily trafficked Trunder Railway. The planning of new tunnels on the Arna–Bergen route is proceeding too fully. When there are double tracks between Arna and Bergen, it will be possible to increase the number of trains, from today's half-hour routes to departures every quarter. The State Road Administration and the Railway Agency have developed a concept currency for Bergen. For Trondheim, the Swedish Road Administration has recently developed an additional piece of equipment for a KVU. On the North Jären, it is Rogaland County Municipality that, in cooperation with the transport etats, has led the KVU work. Collective transport solutions are central to these arrangements. The KVUs – i.e. the concept of currencies – are important basic documents for the government’s ongoing work on the next major national transport plan notification for the period 2014–2023. It is gratifying that the representative Sortevik no clearly states that he wants to increase the bet on public transport. I have also recorded that his party traps in the City Council and the City Council in Bergen and in Hordaland county have agreed to double the toll revenue, essential to finance the urban railways, other collective measures and walking and cycling roads. In my view, there should be a good opportunity for the Storting to adopt good strategies for such development and government participation in it in the context of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e813	Government policy continues and reinforces bias, where major cities are treated differently. It is most visible in public transport. History has given Oslo the most railway, and a lot of railway, and therefore a lot of government money for passenger transport by just railway. The mountain is one of the other big cities that have the least railway. However, the need for collective passenger transport is, of course, also great in Norway's second largest city. In Oslo railway resources are used to finance the railway, while in Bergen road resources are used to finance the Urban Railway. The difference is that while the first type of funding is fully financed by the State, the drivers have to contribute tolls in the other way. Why are the two cities treated so differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e820	As I have already mentioned in the Stortinget today, greater co-financing of collective services in the major urban areas is an important theme that will now be highlighted in the context of a new national transport plan. That process begins for real today, when the etats now provide their professional basis. But let me say for the sake of order that when the purchase of passenger transport by train was involved, in 2011 23 kroner per passenger were allowed for local train traffic in the Oslo area, until the local train traffic in the Stavanger area is 55 kroner per passenger, to Bergen–Arna 19 kroner per passenger, to Trondheim–Steinkker 106 kroner per passenger and to Bergen–Voss–Myrdal 104 kroner per passenger.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e827	Well, obviously you can do this in different ways. Public transport by bus has a much lower government/public cost per passenger kilometre than rail passenger transport. There is an additional reason why the road network needs to be extended to the largest cities, especially where there is currently no satisfactory and comprehensive network for local passenger transport, and it needs to be built with state funding. In addition to the reward scheme, as we know, Oslo today receives over 600 million. kr every year and Bergen under 20 mill. kr every year for public transport by rail. Will the government increase the purchase of public transport in the largest cities without being linked to the railways and without being linked to other specific requirements? Governments have pointed to the railway between Bergen and Arna – it is a fraction of public transport in Bergen and takes very little away. The rest is on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e836	I think it is very important that, in the context of the National Transport Plan, which will be presented in spring 2013, we discuss the potential of the various urban areas, the potential of the bus, and how we can contribute from the state in the best possible way. We are now going to meet all the county councils, and we are also going to meet the largest cities in connection with this – the county councils are responsible for public transport, as it is now. I look forward to good advice in this context, and I look forward to working on a new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e845	‘18. In January, a wagon train from the Slovak Post Office Blomquist Trucking was stuck on Ring 3 in Oslo. In the Financial Newspaper on 21 February, the police disputed the Post Office's allegations that the driver was handling the situation correctly and that the car combination was well enough protected. The entry Norge AS is state-owned, while the Council of State is responsible for the rules for traffic on Norwegian winter roads. Does the Council of State continue to believe that it is the task of the State to operate an international postal and logistics group contributing to traffic chaos?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e852	Item Norge AS owns 95 pst. by Slovak Blomquist Trucking AS, a company they participated in establishing in 2007. Blomquist runs mainly to and from abroad and complies with the cabotage rules in force in Norway and the EU. In recent years, the item has built up a Nordic logistics business to compensate for the decline in traditional postal services. If the Post had limited its operations to domestic transport operations only, this would have marginalised the Post compared to its competitors, and profitability and jobs would be lost. As the largest logistics group in Norway, the Post must be in the main line to ensure that Norwegian laws and regulations are respected, and set high demands for its own business. I'm sure the Post will confirm that this will also apply to the underlying company. By actively participating in an international transport market and by owning 95 pst. by Blomquist Trucking, the Poster is agreeing to draw the industry standard in the right direction. This also benefits Norway. On the part of the owner, it is an important commitment of the Post to international postal and logistics activities that they should contribute to supporting the core business of the parent company Posten Norway AS through the realisation of synergies and that the company should contribute positively to the Posten’s economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e863	I just have to say that I am a little surprised that the Council of State says that the Post Norway and this company Blomquist Trucking are heading in the right direction, when we in Oslo – where it comes as far as there is a bit of snow – feel that you have cars that are not equipped to drive on Norwegian roads, and you have drivers who should never have driven here with the knowledge they have. So these are drivers who are employed in a company that is 95 pst. owned by the Council of State, where the Council of State is the General Assembly. I have to say that I am quite provoked that many of those who are driving on Norwegian roads are drivers who should never have driven here, because they do not have the skills and knowledge to do so. What will the Council of State do to ensure that a Norwegian company has drivers who are able to drive on Norwegian winter roads? Or should you continue to allow them to drive like wild people, and that the cars are scattered around the ditches along Norwegian winter roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e870	The President would remind you that the supplementary question should have a certain connection with the original question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e873	Yes, it is, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e878	The president can barely see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e881	Let me first say that Bård Hoksrud is well aware that we have intensified our preparedness on Norwegian winter roads. The state road service now has the possibility to pull cars that are poorly shunted, aside, they have the option of closing roads, they have promised rescue cars at postponed points, and they have the promise that they will be out of town with bedding. In addition, we have started work on making orders more responsible – or co-responsible – for those transports that cross our borders. We also believe that this will help to increase road safety. I think that Bård Hoksrud is something fast about drawing an ending from one event and one newspaper lookup.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e890	Had it even been one example, one event and one lookup! These are actually examples we get often. Every week we get new examples of the fact that the Post – which has the exclusive right to deliver letters of less than 50 grams, which thus has a monopoly on what drives raw, of course in full competition with everyone else – uses foreign drivers, uses cars that should not have been driven with, among other things. tyres which should not have been used on Norwegian winter roads. The entry has also been taken several times for breaches of the cabotage rules. Does the Council of State think it is right to be responsible for such a company? Should not this Slovak company have been disposed of since it is a purely logistics company? The state and the Post should operate with what they should do, and then others should operate with this kind of logistics service. This is the challenge. That was also the starting point for the question, namely, should you not cut this out and let others do it, in competition with everyone else, without you, who regulates and regulates, being responsible for what is happening in that company?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e897	The President must remember that questions have to go through the President – adapted to an appropriate form.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e900	I think it is clear from the question, and also from the representative Hoksrud, that this was a concrete event. I do not want to ignore the fact that there are several events related to the Post's activity. Cabotage violation shall not occur in the Post. I just want to repeat what I said in my main response: As the largest logistics group in Norway, the Post is going to be in the lead to ensure that Norwegian laws and regulations are respected. They shall impose higher requirements on ownership. They have now been informed of this again. I assumed it would be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e920	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘Proposal for a new fixed medical prescription contains numerous directives on both outreach activities and reporting. The letter of consultation states, inter alia, that decision-makers shall have an overview of both the needs of the services and the actual services received by the list-holders in the municipal and specialist health services. Does the Council of State understand that the working situation of permanent agencies becomes inconvenient to these requirements, and will it take into account the input of the permanent agencies and limit the tasks of the final regulation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e929	The decision-makers are key community health professionals and are central to achieving the objectives of the Interaction Reform. The fixed medical system has been a success, and we're going to build on this system. However, there are clear improvement points – among others: for the availability, coordination and follow-up of patients who need the most. This is well documented, including: in the Commonwealth Fund survey which took place last autumn. Shorter waiting time for hours, more home visits and better availability of telephones are therefore among the proposals in the revised regulation, which is now being consulted. The regulation is an instrument for municipalities to better integrate their decision-makers into the municipal health and care services, making it possible to make even better use of their competences. No one has earned the right to have an inconvenient working situation. But the total amount of tasks for the individual doctor is not just dependent on what is in the prescription. Equally important is the number of local authorities that have to share the tasks. In general, I believe that there is a need for more decision-makers in this country. It is also important how decision-makers organise their practices. Determiners may be relieved by using other personnel in a good manner. The main changes proposed are already mentioned in documents discussed in the Stortinget. Both in the proposal for a new health and care law and in the main communication on a national health and care plan, revision of the fixed medical system has been mentioned. In the recommendation of the national health and care plan, an overall committee expressed the following: ‘The Committee meets a revision of the regulatory framework and considers that clarification of list responsibilities and national quality and functional requirements and related reporting requirements is important to implement.’;» The Committee further states: ‘The Committee considers that it is appropriate to consider whether to impose more stringent requirements on waiting time and on how to monitor patients who are not even in demand of the service.’ The Ministry has sent a draft revised legislative regulation to be consulted. The time limit for the submission of opinions shall be 22 March. I note that some proposals have created a great deal of debate. However, a hearing is just to be recorded. I therefore look forward to receiving hearings from both doctors, KS, municipalities, organisations and others who are involved in the health and care services of the future. I will, of course, listen to all the constructive input that comes into the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e952	It is good to hear that the Minister of Health will take into account the recordings of the doctors, because there has been a lot of anxiety and concern out there since this regulation became known. The fixed medical device is – as the Minister of Health said – very successful. As I know doctors, they are genuinely concerned about providing good health care. This proposal for a regulation is perceived by the prescribers as control and override, that other than those who actually have competence shall give priority to what the prescriber should spend his or her time on. More bureaucracy, more detailed management and less time for the patient – this is what you see. Does the Council of State think that this will help recruit doctors, which I know the Minister of Health is concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e959	When we use approx. 6 B.C.E. I don't think it's unreasonable that we from the public also demand some demands for what you can expect from the PCs. It's for the patients we have the entire fixed medical system. But I fully agree that we must not make this a system that makes it impossible for the doctors to carry out their work. When it comes to the rule that has expired, you might ask a little bit about how to read this. It's not like you're going home to all patients, but to those who need it, and to a greater extent than today. And then I want to add: a lot of ligands are very good at this. A lot of realists actually do what's in the new regulation, and they meet a lot of the requirements. We want better availability – it will be easier for patients across the country to get through on the phone and shorter waiting time to get an hour. Here we have two different suggestions out at the hearing, and we'll listen to every input when they come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e966	I thank you for your answer. I'm of course concerned with the patients, that's why I'm asking this question. I also want to challenge the Council of State for something she had in mind in her answer. It is important that the decision-makers should at all times have an overview of the population on the list that uses the service provision to a small extent. Yes, they should not only have an overview, but they should have outreach offers. This can be done either by sending a call for an hour, a home visit or, if necessary, travelling on a home visit to people who have not even asked for it – if I understood it correctly. Doesn't the Council of State see that the doctors can in this way risk spending their time on healthy people? And does not the Council of State agree that the individual himself is responsible for his own health and that this can work in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e973	It should certainly not be the way that the decision-makers should go home to healthy people and see how they feel at home. That's not what's meant. But we know at the same time that someone can fall outside, some can wear out for different reasons and not necessarily take the initiative themselves. Then it is possible for the doctor to offer an hour, maybe call the office or perhaps send an invitation to come to the office. It's nothing but what I get every year from a dentist. It's possible to say that we're here if you need it. But it's not like you can force anyone to get to the firm. In the case of medical lists in particular, is there a very important function that the prescriber has, for whom else is it the central node of patients? It's the game. That's why we also have to improve here, because we see that there might be a lot of pitfalls here.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e984	‘According to the Norwegian Fibromyalgia Association, it is estimated that there are between 150 000 and 200000 people with fibromyalgia disease. The experience is that there is a lack of knowledge about the disease in doctors, physiotherapists, and Nav. In addition, there are considerable differences in professionalism, follow-up and capacity in the different municipalities. It is important to ensure good and almost equal treatment of fibromyalgia patients. What will the Council of State do to ensure professionally good and equivalent treatment across the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e991	All patients and relatives shall meet with respect and understanding. It is not the individual’s diagnosis, but the individual’s need for health care and assistance to determine which services are offered. There is currently no cure for fibromyalgia. In the absence of a single cause for distress, there will also be no specific treatment. Treatment must be arranged in view of the different symptoms of patients. There is a technical consensus that a multidisciplinary treatment strategy is the ideal option for this patient group. Decision-makers play a central role in coordinating treatment and follow-up. In addition, patients will often need assistance from Nav. Because the disease species are so different in different people, it is difficult to tailor a similar offer to everyone across the country. We still lack a lot of knowledge about fibromyalgia. This gives us some challenges when we're going to make good professional recommendations. Nevertheless, we are doing a great deal that will help improve the quality of the services of this patient group. Often they need coordinated services over a long period of time. The interaction reform encourages municipalities to integrate their services and to invest cross-sectorally in health promotion and prevention. I believe that this is a development that will take more care of women who need a more holistic approach to their health problems. It takes time to build up good services. It also takes time before available knowledge and information reaches employees in the services and to patients and users. Therefore, the government is working to improve education and adapt education to the needs of the population. It's an overdose of women who have the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. For several years, the government has given clear direction signals that the gender perspective of research should be taken into account. In 2006, the National Centre for the Health of Women was established at Oslo University Hospital. The Centre has received significant research activity and some outlying activities related to the dissemination of competences and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1008	I thank you for your answer. If I got any wiser, I won't say anything about it now. But at least what we know is that there is very limited teaching on fibromyalgia in medical training. The last thing I've been referred to is that it's between 45 and 90 minutes of teaching on fibromyalgia. So newly-trained doctors are completely unprepared for the reality they face when they come into practice. Because there are so many who are affected by this disease, all settlers will meet a patient with fibromyalgia. There is also reason to believe that there is an equal amount of inadequate education for other health professionals — physiotherapists and others who contribute. My question is whether the Council of State will consider establishing a national centre of competence for fibromyalgia, where one can gather all the knowledge and experience that is available so that doctors and other health professionals can gain more knowledge and get up to date on the course and treatment of the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1015	Whether or not to have one's own expertise in fibromyalgia, one must constantly consider. I fully agree that playwrights must receive good and thorough education. At the same time, I understand that it is demanding because there is no specific treatment, and because there is not necessarily one reason for this diagnosis. At the same time, we know that this affects a lot of people, and that it affects a lot of women. That's why it's important that we get both research and competence about it. That's why I'm at least concerned that the National Centre of Expertise for Women's Health is getting information and spreading knowledge about fibromyalgia, so that more people can be helped across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1022	It is precisely because there is no specific treatment, but there are several possibilities, that it is important to gather both knowledge and experience with the treatment methods used, so that doctors know where to turn to to get that knowledge. Fibromyalgia affects not only women but also some men, although the number of women is overweight. For example, in order to achieve a good and almost equivalent treatment for fibromyalgia patients across the whole country, this can be achieved by: provide a solution to draw up national professional guidance on treatment. My question is whether the Council of State will take the initiative. I know that the Council of State will have a meeting with the Norwegian Fibromyalgia Federation in a few weeks, where this could be a topic. Other countries have guidelines for treatment, so my question is: Can there be anything the Council of State will look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1029	Establishing treatment guidelines is something that we have done more and more within many diagnostics, and of which I am absolutely a follower, not least in order to disseminate good guidance to the whole country, so that you can get the same offer throughout Norway. However, I would also like to mention that the National Cooperation Group on Medical and Health Sciences will establish a new national effort on muscle and skeletal pests, injuries and diseases. This will also benefit patients with fibromyalgia. So something happens, but getting good guides is obviously important. And then that's how, as I said first in my post, this is a complex disease because there's so many reasons. But that doesn't mean you don't have to take it seriously when there are as many people affected every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1040	‘Reference is made to a survey by the State Health Inspectorate of a sample of municipalities, where it appears that no children between 0 and 6 years of age are offered health centre services in line with professional standards established by the authorities. It is particularly worrying that those who recognise service failures have not planned to implement improvement measures. What will the Council of State do to ensure a professionally sound health centre for children between 0 and 6 years of age?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1047	Health and school health services are an important health promotion and prevention service and a statutory offer. The service is provided without self-proportion for users and is highly populous. As shown in the report of the State Health Authority, almost all infants have received the recommended health examinations at the health centre within the eighth week of life. The purpose of the Health Inspectorate’s survey was to get an overview of how municipalities provide a professionally sound health centre service for children aged 0-6. Several of the findings give cause for concern. I share, among other things: The health oversight concerns that municipalities and urban areas that recognise service failure have not planned to initiate improvement measures. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Sjøli. I find these findings alarming, and will first deal with the matter with KS. Health and school health is one of the few services that municipalities have to provide under the new Health and Care Act. The local authority's responsibility for the service is elaborated in a separate regulation. The Health Directorate has been given a mandate to assess the need to revise the current regulation. It involves assessing whether changes to the Regulation can lead to a strengthened service. Among other things, the Health Authority report will be the basis for this assessment. The Government has its own health station and school health grant scheme. The scheme has been strengthened in the current year. The grant shall contribute to the setting up of municipalities to strengthen this service in the long term, in line with the intentions of the Cooperation Reform. It is the municipalities that cover all expenditure on health and school health services. Therefore, municipalities themselves must give priority to strengthening this service. It is also the municipalities that have to ensure that the applicable regulatory requirements on professionally sound activities are met. Although the municipalities are free of charge as to how they intend to organise the service, this is a service they are required by law. The service must meet the requirements of quality and safety. I hope that the Health Authority report will be used by the municipalities to develop this important service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1062	It's serious. In any case, we agree that some health centres are so poor that they do not catch up with children who need help, as the Health Authority also believes. Not all newborns get home visits within two weeks, several places are not called two-year-olds for control, and thus infants and families with problems at home are not at risk of being caught. In the worst case, this can lead to major challenges for healthcare later, for child protection, school dropout, etc. You get into an evil circle. Several health centres are poorly staffed, and they lack nurses. The Norwegian Nursing Association and the Health Sister Group have pointed out that they lack health sisters. This suggests that the prevention work at health centres and in school health services is lowered by municipalities, which in turn may lead to the exclusion of many children. I think it's particularly serious for vulnerable families and immigrant families. Will the Council of State ensure that sufficient health sisters are trained to carry out these important tasks, especially in the context of the Cooperation Reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1071	As I also said, I believe that health care is one of the most important things we have in our healthcare system, and is one of the things that has really worked for many, many years, far back, and for which we have a long and good tradition in Norway. This service is essential in the prevention work, essential for many families and too many children to capture where there may be challenges. There may be many – there may be different types of families. That's why I'm very concerned that here we have to follow what are professional standards and guidelines. It is worrying that the service is not good enough in all municipalities. In the first place, it has to be addressed with KS – which I intend to do – and we will also consider whether the regulations should be tightened, so that you have a stronger anchor in the municipality in relation to this service. But the law is really clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1076	Yes, thank you, I agree, the law is clear, and it also pointed out the Storting when we dealt with the birth message, where this was also one of the themes. What we were also concerned about when we dealt with the birth announcement was that there had to be an offer of home visits by the midwife during the first two weeks after returning from the maternity ward, especially because many people travel home already after two days, often before breast-feeding has started well. We have seen projects where this has been implemented, where experience has been very positive. As a district midwife for many years, I have also learned that this home visit is incredibly important for both children and parents, especially for vulnerable families, and the interdisciplinary cooperation between midwife and health care sister is strengthened. There is still a great shortage of midwifery in the municipalities, despite the fact that the Storting over many years has repeatedly said and decided that it should be a municipal midwife service. I ask the council again, as I have done many times, whether she will now provide a good earth murder plan and ensure a decent offer to the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1083	Through the processes that have not least been in Stortingen through the notification of maternity and maternity care, as well as the national health and care plan, the representative Sjøli is very well aware of the work done, the basis on which it is based, and not least of the work that must be done between municipalities and regional health businesses in order to get this service well in place. Now it is also part of the contract work between municipalities and regional health companies. I very much agree that precisely this type of service is important in terms of both prevention, guidance, a good start in life and safety for mother and child. I am very concerned that we will succeed here, and I will follow up on whether these agreements are concluded, and whether you work hard abroad to build up these services locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1088	It's reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1098	«Health Finnmark has adopted downgrading of 57 annual works and posts by decision of the Governing Board. Of these, 15 are year-olds and jobs in the ambulance service. This will affect the population’s supply, especially in eastern Finland. Both Båtsfjord, Vardø and Vadsø will have a much worse offer than today. This suggests that much of the ambulance traffic by car is transferred to aircraft, while Avinor has made proposals to reduce opening hours at coastal aerodromes. What will the Council of State do in the matter before this goes to ‘welcome’?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1105	Health Nord is responsible for the planning, organisation and operation of emergency medical services in its region, including the ambulance service. People are going to get emergency help when they need it, along with the medical service plays an important role. We've seen a lot of skills and quality enhancement in the ambulance service over the last few years, and that means a better service, which can provide better help. Health Nord has informed me that clinic prehospital services must cut costs equivalent to 15 annual works due to budget exceedances. The clinic will try to meet this requirement by reviewing crew and tour plans. The clinic shall assess the need for ambulance services in the light of the number of missions and the number of kilometres travelled at each ambulance station. Health Nord has already gone through the activity of East Finland in order to avoid overruns in the budget. It was decided to make some minor changes to the emergency response. In Vardø and Båtsfjord there are two ambulances in each municipality. Both municipalities have a 24-hour car on guard 24 hours a day – year-round. In addition, they have a day-car in operation starting at 0 p.m. 8 to 8 o'clock. 17 days a week. The changes led to the day-car being taken out every Friday in both municipalities, and every two Thursdays in each municipality. The need for ambulances in the churches will also be covered by ambulances from the neighbouring municipality of Vadsø. There are aerodromes in both Vardø and Båtsfjord, and ambulance aircraft are used when medically assessed to do so. It is important that Avinor takes into account the need for air ambulance services if it becomes appropriate to change aerodrome opening times. Avinor and the Air ambulance service must initiate dialogue as soon as possible. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has clarified this to the Ministry of Transport. Health Nord assures that the changes are safe and that the population of East Finland will have a safe and sound ambulance service.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1122	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that prehospital services provide safety to the population, both in the case of acute diseases and in the case of accidents. But as the rapporteur in Båtsfjord assesses it, as the rapporteur in Vardø assesses it, and as the rapporteur in Vadsø sees it, one will end up in a situation that does not provide the public with enough security and access to health services related to hospitals that you have to go to the churches to get. We also know that the Stortinget has decided that regardless of the address of residence you should have access to a good health service. This does not fit well with the decisions made here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1127	I'm very concerned that everyone in the whole country should feel secure about the service they get, that the day you get sick, you should get good treatment wherever you are. We have put a lot of effort into emergency preparedness in Norway. This means that we have a good emergency response also in the north, and I'll say we have a good emergency response in general across the country. It's a very important principle. So it's also the way that when we look at the number of numbers, the more money we spend on this in the north than we do in many other places in the country, naturally, because there are large distances and demanding geographically terms. The changes now proposed by Health Nord believe that Health Nord, who is professionally responsible for the service, will not lead to a deterioration in preparedness. It's still 24-hour-continuous ambulance preparedness. It is also important to keep the air ambulance in operation when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1138	Seen with my eyes, this will lead to a weakened preparedness. I remember our great writer Knut Hamsun, who had an article in the Newspaper about 100 years ago where he complained about the medical coverage and treatment for the people of North Norway. The newspaper followed up and said that these seventeen northern countries should thank some veterinarians. I hope that, after these questions, the Council of State can go in and look at the problem and end up on the part of the population instead of on the part of the veterinarians.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1147	The President will ask the representative to be a little more parliamentary in his expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1150	I understand that when it comes to removing something, you think that it is automatically a weakening of preparedness. Then I want to read again a little passage of what I read instead: «In Vardø and Båtsfjord there are two ambulances in each municipality. Both municipalities have a 24-hour car on guard 24 hours a day – year-round. In addition, they have a day-car in operation starting at 0 p.m. 8 to 17 on weekdays. The changes led to the day-car being taken out every Friday in both municipalities, and every two Thursdays in each municipality." But the 24-hour standby, along with the air ambulance, which is very important in Finnmark, is in place and should be in place. Ambulance services, emergency medical services, in Finnmark are good, and it must be good in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1171	The President cannot see that the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland is present in the Chamber. That means we're going directly to question 12, from the representative Siri A. Meling to the Minister for the Environment and Development. Both are present in the Chamber, so Siri A. Meling will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1178	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘The newly submitted Health Key Figures 2011 from the Directorate for Health shows an alarming trend in the lack of physical activity among young people. The figures show that Norwegian 15-year-olds are more quiet than people aged 65–85. Outdoor activities can and must be used offensively to reverse the trend. What will the Council of State do to improve the involvement of young people in outdoor activities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1187	Let me thank Siri A. Meling for an important question, which goes across a lot of departmental areas. We need a broad commitment to get young people to get involved. In terms of stimulation for outdoor life, it is important for better health and for good natural experiences — yes, in a series of areas. The Ministry of the Environment supports a wide range of activities and courses for children and young people in the field of outdoor life under the auspices of FRIFO, the Free Air Agency, the National Association of the Councils of the Free Air Councils, local nature and open-air organisations and intercommunal Outdoor Councils. For example, the Open Air Active project is being run, where the open-air organisations and local authorities cooperate on an outdoor initiative as an instrument for public health work. Another exciting project, which I also know myself, is called Wild X, and is run by Norway's Hunter and Fisher Federation in Oslo. It is an open-air service for young people in multicultural settings, where different activities such as hunting, fishing, tent tours and mountain tours get young people in these environments into forests and mountains. In order to introduce open-air life to children at an early age in order to incorporate good habits, we have taken a number of measures against the school, including: The natural school bag, which is a way to create commitment to natural issues in school. The Free Air Councils and the Free Air Councils also have a joint action called ‘Free Air Learning’, which contributes to more and better outdoor activity. Let me also add that we want to make the threshold to get out the lowest possible. A very positive measure that I think should set an example for the whole country, is what you've done in Bodø, where it's set as a goal that no place in Bodø should be more than 500 m to access the pedestrian system. You can go for a short ride with a bike, or you can go for a long walk into national parks. You can choose for yourself, but it has to be as easily accessible as possible. Now, perhaps young people are not the ones who are the most going on a trip, but they are also going on a trip, and it's about facilitating that it can be done as easily as possible. I want to draw up another theme that I have also engaged in, and that is to ensure that outdoor life is perceived as all kinds of outdoor life, not just what the older garden has been driving with. To put it plainly: outdoor life cannot still be going on threshing in the way I did in my youth. Outdoor activities are also skiing, surfing and snowboarding. When the Marka Act came — and the Marka Act is a fantastic measure to facilitate a wide outdoor life — many people predicted that these activities would suffer. We've taken the opposite position, that this is sport and outdoor life just as good as anything else. The marka must be a place where you can lie quietly at a fishing water and see nature in its absolute stillness, but the marka must also be a place for all the new open air forms. We also need to provide more facilities for them in other parts of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1204	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Governments are going through a number of activities and projects that are actually under way. But we don't think it's done enough. When this study came from the Health Directorate on still youth, the director of the Free Air Councils National Association, Henry Tendenes, also reacted. He said in a press release that these figures were not surprising, in the light of the state's lack of initiative in the field. In the context of the examination of amendments to the Outdoors Act of 15 June 2011, a unanimous majority agreed on a proposal by the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party to review the Outdoors Act and other neighbouring laws and regulations, with the aim of removing restrictions on new forms of outdoors in Norwegian nature and opening up the environment to new user groups within a sustainable framework. The state councils promised to take hold of this. Can we expect something to happen, for example? in revised to spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1215	The representative knows, of course, that I can't reveal anything from future budgets. I would also like to give a little warning against the idea that the state can solve all problems. I saw a British party trap of Siri A. Meling who just said in an interview that the state can't actually exercise for you. What the state can do is to facilitate people's positive choices in this area. This applies to young people and the elderly. We can make sure that it's easy to get into nature. Yesterday we launched Norwegian Standard – how people with disabilities can get into nature, making it easier for them to get out. But we also need to stimulate personal -- the desire for action and the attitude that makes people really want to do this. Through the new Norwegian Standard, it will also be much easier to facilitate the provision of facilities for people with disabilities — even throughout the country, whether in the area of swimming, fishing, walking — in the local environment or beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1222	I thank you for the answer, but it is improperly a fact that a cross-political magnification wants to do more in the field of youth organisation. As long as the figures from the Health Directorate also show that young people are very still, it is also a health perspective – in addition to the natural experience itself. Youth needs to be taken seriously when it comes to activities they want to participate in, activities that may not be the traditional ones, such as skiing in the field, but other things. It is an important task not to put obstacles in the way of this. So even though the Council of State may not reveal anything about what had to be revised, I hope that he can still give some positive signals that one actually wants to raise this question – with concrete grips on youth and outdoor activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1227	Absolutely! I share the full view of the representative that it is a difficult challenge to get young people – and in fact all age groups – out. The big challenge in Norway is not to get those who go Birkebeiner’n to go exactly three minutes faster, or to get even more involved in that kind of – let’s call it – extreme activities. It's getting the half of the people who are very still, a little bit more out -- get the pensioners who are never out, to go for a couple of trips a week, get those who are out, to go out a little bit more, get the many kids and young people who are very still, more out. There I would like to have a dialogue, because I don't think there are any simple handles to get it done. We can do a lot from the state and government to make it easy, by facilitating and encouraging it, and by stimulating teams and associations to take hold. But at the end of the day, there is an individual choice for both the youth and the pensioner if they want to go out. I want to invite a dialogue on how we can stimulate to get this better.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1238	‘In the context of ensuring an organic and sustainable reindeer activity in Norway, the reindeer management has set the number of authorised tamrein in the reindeer grazing districts. However, this is not complied with by the reindeer management organisations. Can the Council of States explain what measures are and will be taken to ensure the enforcement of the decisions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1245	The river management board has approved new reindeer figures for all reindeer grazing districts in Norway. The last renumbering decisions were taken in December 2011. I am pleased that they got in place by the end of the year, which was also in line with the signals I have previously given to Stortinget. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not have a direct role as a consequence of the provisions of the Act on reindeer management, nor does it have a direct role to play in determining the reindeer numbers or in implementing measures to follow up such decisions. However, the Ministry, as a general authority, has the opportunity in certain situations to reverse decisions taken by the Reinhriftstyrelsen – I refer to Section 35 of the Administrative Act. It has also been necessary and has been done in some specific cases. For some pasture districts, the new reindeer figures are significantly lower than the actual ones. However, in order to get a comprehensive picture of the situation, it must be emphasised that many reindeer districts do not have a higher reindeer figure than that approved by the Reindeer Management Board. These are never or rarely mentioned in the media. Of course, it is those districts/pages that have too high a figure, which require a specific follow-up by the authorities. This is particularly true for some areas of Finnmark, namely West Finland. So this is going to have to be less. The Purity Act provides for how the process is to be performed when the actual clean-up figure is higher than that approved. In these cases, reduction plans shall be drawn up, where appropriate reduced proportionately if the plan is not implemented or such a plan is not drawn up. For some districts with too high a figure, reduction plans are already in place, while for others it will be a central task to develop such plans in the future. Where reduction plans are already in place, the follow-up process is under way, including: by reducing certain side-share holders in line with the deadlines set out in adopted plans. So it's the Reind driftstyrelsen that is responsible for the necessary reduction of the reindeer number. So to the question of what measures are and will be taken to ensure that the decisions are followed. Here again, I have to refer to the Act on reindeer management, which provides for what should happen if the reindeer number is not reduced in line with approved reduction plans. Thus, the starting point is that the side shareholder concerned is obliged to reduce its purity in line with adopted plans. This includes, inter alia: the reduction must be made in accordance with the time limits laid down. If the practitioners do not comply with this, they may be charged either in the event of a breach of the rules of use, or other provisions of the law may be used. In the latter cases, the most relevant measures are periodic penalty payments and penalties. The territorial or clean-up management board shall determine the measures to be applied. Before the application of the latter penalties, it shall be ordered to follow up the decision. I refer you to Section 75 of the Act of Purification. In the case of possible coercive measures to reduce the reindeer number, this may only be carried out if an order has not been complied with and other measures are not considered to be appropriate within the meaning of this Regulation. Repurchase Act § 75. This means, therefore, that the authorities cannot impose coercive measures to reduce the purity until the other measures in the law have been first assessed or put into effect. It is under the law of the district or reindeer management board that can take decisions on coercive measures. The follow-up of the reindeer decisions takes place through the preparation and follow-up of reduction plans and is now the highest priority task for both reindeer management and reindeer management. As the responsible state council, I follow the progress in this area very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1271	We've seen a figure of between 50,000 and 60,000 pure too much. It is also positive with the decisions made in the reindeer management system towards the sides – that is very good – but the problem here is that you do not bring down the reindeer number. The Council of State also claims that there are others involved, but the Council of State cannot, with all due respect, delegate responsibility. The responsibility for doing something about this lies with the Minister of Agriculture. You have other things. You have the animal welfare to take into account. You can see that there were a lot of animals – 30-40 animals – that were found starving two weeks ago. Why don't you drag in the Food Authority? So my questions to the Council of State are, what kind of sanctions have been implemented? You don't give a coin, do you? What do you do? Is the Food Authority opposed to animal welfare? Have any measures been taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1278	Of course, this is how you do something about the matter. Application rules and cut-off values have been established during December 2011. It is the reindeer management board and the district management board that are now to follow up the reduction plans to be implemented. If it is not implemented — and if the law is not implemented — coercive action will be taken, such as: any other form of payment or penalty. In the case of the Food Safety Authority, they have an independent supervisory responsibility and shall follow animal welfare in reindeer farming, as in other parts of Norwegian agriculture. They have a big focus on animal welfare there. I work with the reindeer management to follow up on the fact that there will be no disruption to animal welfare. So the Food Authority is in place and is following the situation all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1285	I find it a little strange that the minister says that enforcement measures can be imposed. Here, a decision has been made that the reindeer is going down. The side doesn't take it down; you just let it scour and go. There are animal tragedys, but no action has been taken. My question is, can we see any action tomorrow, the day after tomorrow? When do we get action – because animal welfare is urgent? That's the one question. The second question is, what about the reindeer management negotiations? When there is a roof set by the reindeer management, that a reindeer should have – to take an example – 1000 pure, and then he has 3,000 pure, will the aid scheme be based on the number set by the board of directors to 1000 pure, or will it be supported that he has 3,000 pure?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1292	It's a little bit complicated to answer different questions that come in the same context. But let me just be perfectly clear that we have to follow laws and regulations, and the reindeer law lays down procedures for how the work on reindeer reduction is to be done in the different pages/districts. It is then necessary to implement directives and measures before coercive measures can be implemented. Don't say that. It's a complicated landscape to work in. But there is a lot to do, and there has been a lot more lately through the introduction of rules of use. So I want to distance myself from saying that you're not doing anything, as the representative here suggests in his question. As regards the issues of the instruments in the reindeer management agreement, a new reindeer management agreement has just been concluded. We'll get to Stortinget with that, and then we'll also be able to answer those questions in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1301	Before we finish case no. 2, the President will note – and that is not the case with the two now in the Chamber – that there is also a representative who has not appeared for this questioning. For the sake of the record, the president will add that although there was no disaster today, it may be that a government council comes to the Stortinget just for one question, and then the representative doesn't show up. It's very unfortunate. Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-02-29.ana.ud1497e1316	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
