ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e55	The President makes it clear that there will be voting in case No. 1 right away, so people stay in the hall until we've dealt with case number. 1st@item: inlistbox The representative Akhtar Chaudhry, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Jonni Helge Solsvik, has now taken the seat. From the representative Dagfinn Højbråten there is an application for leave from 4 March 2013 and from Stortinget's spring session to join the position as Secretary-General of the Nordic Council of Ministers. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President congratulates the representative, Høybräten! The Vara representative, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is proposed to meet in time from 5 March and out of Stortinget's spring session. – It is also considered to be adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 57 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 on the current map has been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 2 to 6 at the end of the day’s meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e99	The President will draw attention to the fact that the timing of this matter has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Paragraph 44 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e149	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e159	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e173	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the debate will be divided into two sections, to deal first with the budgetary chapters of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and then with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that part 1 of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 35 minutes, the Progress Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that the speaking time in part 2 of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 25 minutes, the party of progress 15 minutes, the right 10 minutes, the Socialist left party, the centre party, the Christian People's Party and the left 5 minutes each. The President will state that the speaking time of the Councils of State will be taken by the speaking time of the Workers' Party. Furthermore, the President will propose that parts 1 and 2 of the debate give rise to a change of lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to three lines with replies from the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested by those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time, that they have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e186	It was great to open this debate, which will certainly be a good and exciting debate. I would first like to thank all the committee members, who have stood on this, for there is a bit of a cabal to be added and there is a lot to keep in order to put in place a setting that is quality and where all the numbers and all the text are voting. Because this is a text that I think a lot of people are going to use this year, because there's a lot of useful information there. If you thank a committee member, you must also thank the committee secretary, who has also done a very good and very important job! Budgetary debates are demanding, especially when it comes to numbers and calculations, because here you're in like this. Not least in the financial debate, there will be a lot of numbers against numbers and claims against claims, and often indignant claims against indignant claims! I'm also going to contribute a little bit to bringing my numbers, which is part of my message and the red-green message into this debate, and then I'm going to address some ideological issues in the end. First a few figures: there have been 55,000 more annual works in the municipal sector in our government period, and very few of them are so-called bureaucrats, in a negative sense. This is to a very large extent annual work that has gone directly into the provision of services — new heads, new hands. In a way, we may have had too little annual work for this bureaucracy, because good service provision is also important with good management, administration, financial management, etc. 60,000 more children are now in kindergarten; about 90 p.p. of all 1–5 year-olds now have kindergarten facilities, and the maximum price is continued in 2012 at the 2011 level. In this sense, for an SVer, it is almost a pleasure when an attack is made by the opposition that more babysitting is needed in the year, etc. Then this really has "set up" as part of service production, as part of the offer to our people, all of whom are now striving to show that they are the most happy. In fact, we have a real growth in the total income of the municipal sector at almost 2 p.p., where, in addition, some activities in kindergarten, child protection, school, health and care are particularly strengthened. We've had a formidable growth in extra tax revenue. So we've got a tax revenue growth in our municipalities in 2012, which shows, not least, that taxes are important if we're to run the welfare community in a good way. So much could have been better in and off. We could have spent more money on common consumption and a little less money on private consumption, that's the SV's starting point, but you know the world how good this red-green scheme is when we now see that the Right and Advance Party want to go the other way. They will have tax relief and increase private consumption, and thus it will be at the expense of common consumption. It's wrong, it's unwise, not least when we're thinking about value creation in the future. The political parties in this room are somewhat fighting to celebrate the Norwegian welfare model. We all claim that we are for it, and that we want to process it. For us in SV, there is a great deal of need for it to stand out as credible from the Right and the Advance Party. Our Nordic model of society is not to be praised in a credible way when, at the same time, we go around our municipalities heavily – not only ideologically, but also concretely – in favour of massive privatisation in health, school, kindergarten, railway, care, cultural schools, etc. The public must order and pay, the private must deliver, and would also like to pay dividends and be able to remunerated for both wages, pensions, recruitment standards, competence measures, etc. One is not a warm and credible supporter of the Norwegian model when one pursues such policies around our municipalities. Nor does one do it when one does not show respect for the work done by the trade union movement. The trade union movement must have good working conditions. One must have a policy that promotes professional organisation. One must, for example: by continuing to ensure that there are deductions for the union quota, and not least in those cases where a buyer buys services – i.e. where a tenderer uses the tender institute – provides clear guidance: an assumption that the provider of services has this in place with pensions, wages and union membership. Another problem that also characterises the Norwegian model, which I will also come back to in my three-minute post, is that we are using the whole country. It's also here the right parts so that those degrees fail by not wanting to operate the geographic countercurrent policy of which the red-green government is so absolutely concerned, both in theory and practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e215	The interaction reform is now taking shape in the municipalities, and several municipalities are cooperating in a good way to make the cooperation reform work according to their intentions. Many are in good shape, but some municipalities are still struggling. Common to most municipalities is that the reform has cost something more than what the municipalities get compensated for. It helps little, and there is little comfort to the municipalities in knowing that in a few years they might save those expenses. It's right now that the municipalities are struggling, that's now they're budgeting for next year, and that's when the municipalities see that they lack money. What will SV do to compensate municipalities for their additional consumption due to the Interaction Reform towards 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e222	Thank you to the Progress Party for an important question. I agree that this is a demanding reform. The government is very careful about what is happening to that reform in various ways, including: economic. SV and the government agree that this looks like Municipality-Norway – it varies from municipality to municipality – comes out worse than what was in the first calculations. What the government has said is first and foremost two things. First, the government follows very closely what is happening now, in close cooperation with the KS. Secondly, we know that, as I mentioned in my post, there has been a very good tax intake this year, which the municipalities will keep. In this way, I think that all municipalities have more or less extra money that they can now use to compensate for what has become less of the cooperation reform. Then you have to bet on putting this in place in later budgets, so that there is a reform that is fully funded by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e229	The SV want municipalities to be able to provide services that are for the benefit of the population. I would then assume that SV sees the need for municipalities to have the freedom of action they need to care for their citizens and their need for welfare services. Nevertheless, the government party SV has little to do with keeping municipalities in check, by not giving municipalities more room for action than just enough to cover demographic development and by paying current expenses such as wages and pensions. The solution for many municipalities is increased debt and a sustained maintenance need. Is SV satisfied that the transfers to the municipalities from the richest government of the time do not go better than this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e236	When the state budget was presented, it was good to see that the press releases from the government and KS were almost identical. This was a solid budget that made it possible to maintain the same level of activity and the overall level of quality at its present level. That's also in the reply to my question. So I believe that we should have ideally invested more on the common consumption and something less on the increase in private consumption, as I said in my main post, but this is a very solid budget. The maximum would have been that we could have done it even better by – as I said – taking something more on private consumption, investing something more on the common consumption of our society and letting the richest have to pay something more in taxes and thus contribute to the important common consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e243	Thank you to the chairman of the committee for a mild opening of the debate. He tried to draw up an ideological boundary line where the word privatisation is the absolute term for SV. He listed a wide range of services that the citizens would privatise from the municipalities, among others. railway, which is probably not a municipal task, but school, etc. Now we know that one of the most important sectors, which SV is also involved in, are kindergartens, and we know that over half of the country's children go into private kindergartens. We know that in user surveys private kindergartens score even better than municipal kindergartens. It's obvious that Aksel Hagen hasn't gotten a pass for all his desires to strengthen the community, as he says. Will SV work to re-communalise private kindergartens, and does SV believe that private kindergartens are worse than municipal ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e250	Firstly, private solutions are not an absolute lead for SV. We have a lot of private providers, both commercial and not least voluntary, in our service area. So we don't have an absolute negative relationship with that. In the case of kindergartens, the task for us – both for SV and the red-greens – is now to stop the violent, active privatisation policy that is now taking place in many municipalities, not least in right-wing municipalities. Our clear messages to our politicians out there are now primarily to prevent us from distorting the relationship between private and public, so that we get fewer municipal kindergartens in the future. We believe that we would be served with the opposite, that it would be easier to control this sector in a whole way if all kindergartens in the long term were municipal. But we can also solve it through close and good cooperation between the private and local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e259	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e263	The municipal sector is important. Yes, I would say that in the municipalities there are some of our most important welfare services provided to the inhabitants every single day. As a result, the municipal sector is a priority in the State budget with increased free resources. The aim of the Workers' Party, and the Government's, is that we should have sufficient children's playgrounds of good educational quality. We should be able to offer nursing homes to those who need them. The quality of primary public schools in Norway is to be improved. Our welfare services are good, but they need to get better and better. Norway is once again the best country in the world to live in. That is a fact that we should all be proud and grateful for. We are not drawn to a perfect country, although sometimes in this room it sounds as if the government's actions are being measured up to the perfect. The municipal sector is large and will have 400 billion in 2013. NOK at disposal. More than 500,000 people are employed in the sector, and the 2010 survey shows that most of the population is satisfied with the service we provide here. Since 2005, the level of income in the sector has actually increased by 61 billion. kr. It has received several tasks, and it has followed with money. The last major promise was made in connection with the implementation of the Interaction Reform from 1 January 2012. There was no lack of gloomy predictions from the opposition, but the fact is that the introduction has gone very well. It also confirms KS. Both reform and funding are new work, and it is important that enlargement and government follow, so that we achieve our goal of full funding for the reform. The right has made it its mantra that the government lacks executive power. We will probably hear that in this debate too, even if the results in the municipal sector speak for themselves. The government has put money on the table for the municipalities, and the municipalities have done the job and have built up the welfare services – powerfully and effectively. There is full childcare coverage and inclusion of the nursery allowance in the framework. Nearly 60,000 more children have been accommodated in kindergartens around the country since 2005, and the number of people employed in kindergartens has increased by almost 40pst. The grant for the construction of nursing homes has increased, and our goal is that 12,000 places are completed or under construction by 2015. Furthermore, municipal child protection has been strengthened, resulting in more new jobs and more measures. We're going to simplify the everyday life of the Nordics through our IT efforts and get more forms online. It has just been reported that all health records should be compiled so that one person has only one record. In the business sector, the equity requirement to start an AS is lowered and the audit requirement is dropped by smaller enterprises. In addition, the government has demonstrated its ability to act by not giving up an inch in terms of employees’ rights and the Working Environment Act. We are actively working against social dumping and have reinforced our efforts to solve the full-time/part-time problem. All opposition parties on the Stortinget have announced that they will have a government change after the next big shot. They want Norway to go in a different direction. In the municipal area, it is a little difficult to find out what the alternative is, and I feel that the opposition is also not very interested in resolving this between themselves. In the position of the budget we are discussing today, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are ready to gather on one common proposal. When the municipal bill was discussed in June of this year, the opposition was gathered on two proposals — together with three joint proposals in the two possibly most important issues in the local government sector in one year’s time. That's what it says. More market, privatisation, outsourcing and tax cuts are the local image of the right-hand side. There's no reason to believe that this won't be the most important thing for the right-hand side central if they were to get a majority in this room. That is why the 2013 elections are a direction choice. During a week ago, we witnessed a political strike among the employees of the kindergartens in Oslo. They protested against the cut of the kindergartens. Many parents in Oslo are concerned about a deterioration in the quality of kindergarten services. Parents want enough employees to see their child. The right-hand agency in Oslo creates uncertainty among many when it says that the number of employees is not important for quality. I think a lot of parents don't recognize themselves in such a reasoning. In the right-hand alternative budget, we can read that the parental allowance for kindergarten is to be increased. If you have two children in kindergarten, the extra charge from the Right will be NOK 4400 per year. In addition, the right earlier in the harvest gave the impression that they would have a continuous admission into kindergartens. Although many perceived that this was what the Right meant, it was obviously not meant that way anyway. I understand that many people ask themselves whether the Right really is concerned with kindergartens, or whether they are basically the most concerned with bank support for the very least. Perhaps the Right can use the debate here today to clarify the Right Kindergarten Policy? If I don't think many people would think that these are basically old solutions and bad ideas. We can also take the trip to Bergen to form a picture of the priorities of any new government. Treasure and champagne or school construction and cement? In Bergen, unfortunately, the right-hand side chose the first. It was obviously more important to remove property taxes than to refurbish the city's school buildings. I don't think anyone will be surprised if the tax cuts become the most important if the Right and Advance Party get the power after the next election. The political choices made in Oslo and Bergen are not coincidences; they are the result of a misguided policy. Is there a difference between implementing power or direction choice between a Right-Handled and an Labour Party-driven municipality? Trondheim is a city municipality that has invested in other areas. They have retained their property tax. Even the right in Trondheim wanted to keep it, probably because they see that they get a lot of money back for the property tax. In the last period, the Labour Party-steered City Council invested in full child care coverage, and they did it. This period is the goal of full hospital coverage and single room for anyone who wants it. Trondheim had, like all major cities, major traffic problems with rush and traffic power. They have had a large-scale effort on public transport and on gas buses, and they have reduced the price considerably per turn to get the most to take the bus – and they have succeeded. There is a difference between the Right Party and the Labour Party's policies. It clearly shows these examples. There shall be a difference between a Right-Steering and an Labour Party-Steering municipality. The working party chooses differently from the right because we have different values and different ideology. We want the balance and the distribution of the goods, we want justice and community solutions. We believe that tax-intensive municipalities should contribute to cohesion, for the benefit of tax-deprived municipalities – as it is today – with a distribution of 60 pst. We want the best possible equality, not the greater differences, so it's going to be with the Right array. I believe that many right-wing rapporteurs in tax-responsive municipalities do not fully support the fact that their municipality, along with many other municipalities, will be less well-being while some will get much more. This is not solidarity, this is right-wing policy in practice. This option is a direction option. If the policy goes in a dark blue direction after the 2013 elections, Kommune-Norway will notice it first by everyone. It's possible that some people are going to be zero tax collectors, but most people don't want to notice much about Right Tax Lights. Public welfare will mark it. The right answer is more privatisation, but these services also have to be paid with public crowns. We're going to meet an exciting election. It's about the direction Norway is going in. The working party chooses commonality and cohesion throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e294	I register that the representative Ingaill Olsen claims that the government party in the state budget prioritises the municipalities and that the cooperation reform is fully financed. When you talk to local politicians, you get a slightly different response. Additional maintenance drag is reported. A person hears about pension obligations where there is a larger and larger gap between what is recorded and the actual obligations. Every now and then, we'll talk about 25 billion. kr, sometimes talking about significantly higher numbers than that. My question to the representative Olsen is whether she sees these maintenance and pension obligations as a problem, and what the Labour Party might do to resolve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e303	Clearly, municipalities have major challenges. It's a big sector, with a lot of costs. This government has transferred large amounts of money to the municipalities. When it comes to the interaction reform, the KS says it's going well. We also know – as I said in my post – that this is new work. We're going to take care of it. We really don't know the fasit for the first year before we get out in the first quarter of next year. We have to keep track of this, and we have to adjust if necessary. With regard to the pension, the accounting rules and the way in which the costs incurred are shown in the accounts. The premiums are paid. The Bondevik II government, with Erna Solberg, introduced a system in which one could choose to period this over 15 years. Here we've taken a grip. We've changed it to ten years, so you can fix this. But we must also stress that it is the municipalities that choose, in line with the legislation. In terms of money, we've got 5 billion. kr extra in tax revenue in 2012 and it contributes to facilitating the situation of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e314	I was a little excited to hear what the Labour Party's fractional leader in the municipal committee was going to say – as played out for the last budget debate in this ageing period after seven years of red-green government. It was supposed to be the crescendo itself, the finale of good red-green governance, with emphasis on what you have achieved, and what you want – what visions you have for the municipalities ahead. So instead, we get 8.5 minutes of attack on the Right, on the Right's policy, on the Højre's municipalities, on the Right's rapporteurs – on bourgeois governance at all. I have gone through quickly the draft budget in the municipality of Trondheim, the red-green lighthouse that Ingaill Olsen boasted. They're going to school. They're cutting babysitting. They have at least a draft budget that should be more difficult to swallow than what is happening in Oslo and Bergen. When shall Ingarill Olsen stop painting the situation in the country's largest cities, governed by the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e321	The government and the Workers' Party have worked throughout this period to give municipalities more money. We can show that through the results that have been presented. There's a lot of activity and a lot of activity. This is true in the cities, also in Trondheim. We're going to continue running on this course, because we want welfare services to improve. We want better services throughout the country, both in the districts and in the cities. We're going to continue to spend money on this -- make sure that we get better common resources and better services for everyone, whether they live in Trondheim, Oslo, in other big cities or in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e328	Both in the 2005 and 2009 election campaign, we were promised that the pools would be filled, the care of the elderly would shine, the poverty would be eliminated with a pen stroke – we remember from 2005 – and we would have a municipal economy that would give the municipalities room for action to increase the provision of services. Nevertheless, we see that the pools are empty. The guarantee of dignity is broken. Poverty — especially child poverty — remains a major problem. The local economy is forcing municipalities into debt, which also provides huge maintenance facilities. Can the representative Mr Ingarill Olsen understand that rapporteurs, councillors, municipal politicians and the inhabitants of the country above are frustrated by the violations of the promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e335	We registered when the state budget was presented, that KS was satisfied with it. It is possible that KS is more satisfied with that than the Christian People's Party is. We know that there are different levels in different municipalities, and that means that some municipalities have bigger challenges than others. There's no doubt about it. There are different levels of debt and different loads. It's clear that there are inequalities, and that someone's struggling more than others. But this government has invested a lot of money, and the municipalities have responded. They've increased their activity. They've built new kindergartens. They have taken action. We have strengthened child protection – we have done a lot of good – but that does not mean that everything is done. Everything's not perfect. We must continue to work to ensure that municipalities get better, and that residents of municipalities get better welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e347	The party is concerned that Norway should become an even better country to live in. That is our political goal, and that is our driving force. Of course, much is good in Norway, but there are still things that can be done better. One of the important things in Norway is the basic welfare services you have in your municipality. We believe that the funding system, with the framework funding of the municipalities, is wrong. We think it should be a state-run, need-driven financing. If a need arises, a funding triggers. This means that the individual who needs services will have a much greater right to receive these services. One will be able to get them regardless of whether a cage is in a rich or poor municipality. Some people think this seems a little complicated. Usually I get a couple of questions about this in every budget debate. I'm assuming that I get this time as well. But this is no more complicated than it was when the kindergartens were funded this way. So kindergartens were funded by the number of children in kindergarten, and according to the number of hours they spent there – and a little extra depending on where kindergartens were located in the country, if there was an additional need for funding. Similarly, resource-requiring services are funded today; there is a need to trigger government funding. But until we get this through to funding the welfare services in the municipalities, we will, of course, take on the basis of today's budgetary system and the challenges it poses. We have now been presented from the Red-Green parties – both from the Swedish Labour Party and from the Labour Party – that this budget leads to a good community economy. Most municipalities do not experience this budget as any strengthening of the local economy. In any case, the debt in Kommune-Noreg is rising sharply, dramatically, while the maintenance process is increasing. I think if you were to compare it to a private household where you see that the house is decaying, while the debt is increasing, you wouldn't say that the family has had a very good economic development. KS also states that the State budget for 2013 will not provide room for better services in the municipalities, but that it is enough to keep up with today’s service provision. This kind of progress parity sees it, there's no strengthening of the local economy. Of course, municipalities have been given increased transfers, increased revenues – there is no doubt – but at the same time they have been given new tasks, stricter requirements and increased expectations, which require greater resources. There have also been several inhabitants. We have an ageing population. All of this has led to an increase in costs as much as the increase in income has done. Should a few for Kommune-Noreg, you need action, not just talk. One needs more money. The Progress Party has strengthened the municipal economy. We've added 1.2 billion. to strengthen the care of the elderly in the municipalities. We've added 500 million. to increase the bet on resource-requiring services in municipalities. We have increased the operating resources to the base ball by 200 million. kr. We've also taken a grip that results in zero weight of the municipal debt. That'll lead to 1 billion. kr more to the municipalities. So let's say we want 150 million. kr to municipal child protection, more than the government. We've also added 330 million. more than the government of measures for drug addicts. In addition, we will receive equal treatment for private and public kindergartens, which do not directly benefit municipalities, but indirectly benefit municipalities. We also secure kindergarten space for the 1-year-olds born after 1 September. It'll cost almost 200 million. kr. So we're improving the municipal economy by almost 3.6 billion. kr. There is more money for all the municipalities of the country. I want to take a random selection of municipalities and how much this will matter to them. Lillehammer's going to get $16 million. kr more with the Advance Party Alternative State Budget. Msøy will get more than 800000 kroner. Oslo will get almost 390 million. kr more. The drama's going to get almost $42 million. kr more. Voss'll get over $9 million. kr more, and Skien will have over 34 million. kr more than the government and government party proposes in its government budget. Someone might think that if the transfers are buttons, the municipalities will be more efficient. So you're going to have to streamline and rationalize. The progress party doesn't believe in such a policy. On the other hand, we believe that facilitating competition, both internal competition and external competition, will result in more well-being for each krona. It's because we believe that competition is healthy and that competition brings out the best in us. The representative Aksel Hagen was involved in privatisation. Competitive outsourcing is not privatisation. Privatisation is about to allow private services to be provided and let the private itself finance it. But that's not what we're talking about here. In this window you should open a private terminal to provide services if they are better equipped to do so than the public service. But it should always be the public that finances it. So it's not privatisation – it's competitive. In addition to that, we think that one needs to focus more on welfare technology. One cannot expect the 429 municipalities we have in Norway to map all welfare technologies. Here, central government needs to take a grip and provide the best possible solution. It's about tracking technology, which we've debated before, with nothing going on, and it's about as simple things as vacuum robotics, etc. A Danish study has shown that using vacuum cleaner robots will release 5,000 annual works, which could thus be used as direct welfare for users. Today we have a budgeting system, accounting system, that covers the real economic situation in the municipalities. It's true how one carries the pension obligations that we've been in here -- one has tens of billions too little in the book compared to the actual obligations. We also have an account that's led where you don't have a depreciation but a deduction. If one had changed this to an accounting system that one has in the private sector, this would probably lead to blood red numbers in most of the country's municipalities. But that's what's real. The economy in the municipalities is far worse than the number shows. That's probably why the government didn't do anything about this, because then the truth would appear. That's why it's important that you take a short-term and long-term approach. The short-term measures that we refer to in our alternative state budget are that we spend enough money on the municipalities so that they can do their job and prepare for future challenges. In the long term, we need to facilitate freedom of choice, competition, investment in welfare technology and a realistic accounting system, which reveals the real economic situation in municipalities. Finally, I will present the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, either alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e381	The representative, Mr Hagesetter, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e387	I'm sorry if I have to disappoint the representative of Hagesetter, because I'm not going to address the ritual question, since I have given up an explanation on how this other system of the Progress Party will work. I thought my question was about the commitment of the Progress Party to efficiency in public. The Progress Party notes that it is an important policy objective to reduce and streamline public bureaucracy. At least I share the idea that we should have an effective public bureaucracy. At the same time, the Progress Party shall abolish framework management as a principle, a principle which is demonstrablely more effective than the single-price financing for which the Progress Party is calling for. They use, I heard in the post, resource-intensive services as an exemplary example of how to allocate the money to municipalities, a system that requires comprehensive, complex and bureaucratic reporting. What are the requirements for efficiency improvement that the Progress Party will remove – as is stated in its comments – when it wants to say that efficiency improvement to municipalities is so extensive that it is difficult for many municipalities to deal with them?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e394	It is quite correctly observed and registered by the representative Sivertsen that the Progress Party wants to reduce public bureaucracy. We have also done so in our alternative state budget. We have reduced red tape in the departments, bureaucracies in the Directorates and in a lot of other areas. We will also facilitate this in the municipalities. This applies primarily to the detailed management that the government has become a symbol of and has been very interested in over the last few years, that a detailed manager and has the rule management of the municipalities. In addition to the local authorities' perception of this as an attack on the right of self-determination of the municipalities, local authorities also come with statements of intention, which lead to a huge bureaucracy for the municipalities. So this is something we want to clean up, simplify and debureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e399	I have two questions – first a yes or no question. In the event of privatisation, can the Progress Party guarantee that it will not affect pension, salary and trade union activity? That was the yes or no question. My second question concerns funding. The complicated thing is not to understand the model of the Progress Party. The complicated thing is to understand how to connect the Progress Party model on government needs finance and the Right Model, which is based on greater local freedom. [[...]] ‘The day’s model maintains a country-to-municipal dependency’, reads the Right’s Commentary. Furthermore, it states that ‘it is important to turn the income system from being a system of state policy leaders to a system that facilitates and rewards innovation, growth and creativity’. As far as I can see, these are parties with a completely diametrical view of how to finance the municipal sector. That's the sum of the two -- that they're going to meet in government -- that gets complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e408	First of all, I would like to say to the representative Hagen, who uses the word "privatisation": the party of progress will not privatize, we want to put off competition. That's two different things. If a privatizer, it's the private person who does it, and one who finances it privately. So it's not what the Progress Party is talking about. We're talking about a long time having public funding, but you can let private ones do it if they're better able to do it, so they win an offer contest. So to the funding of the welfare services. It is quite correctly observed that the Progress Party has a slightly different approach angle when it applies to it than it does to Right. We believe this should be publicly funded. It does not include anything bureaucratic at all, it is the same way that kindergartens were funded in the past. Then we didn't get any complaints about it, but now we get a lot of complaints about problems when it comes to financing kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e415	To my great surprise, I discovered that the Progress Party, in its comments on the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, is concerned about rural agriculture. It is surprising that it comes into the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and even more surprising that they are concerned with rural agriculture, in stark contrast to what has been proposed by cuts in agriculture in other budgets. Now leave it. The party of progress points to some challenges that farmers in Inner Troms experience after the flood. There are concerns that the centre party absolutely shares, and has a lot of attention to solve in the best possible way. As we all know, beauties under the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs should go to municipal and county infrastructure. Had we not had these arrangements – which I have experienced for myself to have benefited well – at least the centre of my municipality had not been built up today. My question is: why in the world is it desirable to take damage to agricultural property and crops from the agricultural agreement and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and into the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e424	It is quite correct to note that the Progress Party is entering for an estimated 30 million. kr extra in compensation for the farmers in the country – we have used Inner Troms as an example, but it also applies to other parts of the country – who have been exposed to flooding, and who have not received the compensation they should have in order to be set free. It is quite different from our policy when it comes to introducing the funding system, introducing support schemes for agriculture and reducing support for agriculture, while at the same time criticising it. Here, there are simply farmers who have been exposed to flooding, who like to have several floors, and who have to have a specialty on each and every one of them. Then, of course, we find that the damage they had not expected and budgeted for being inflicted, we are going to correct it again and replace it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e429	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e432	I seem to notice that an underlying difference between government and citizens' alternative approach in the municipal sector is simply trust and belief in local self-government. The impression was further reinforced by the contributions of the representative Olsen, the Labour Party leader of the municipal fraction, who had obviously lost confidence in the voters in Bergen and Oslo, whereas the confidence of the voters in Trondheim – as I understood it – was intact. The sign of respect for democracy – including local democracy – is that other parties, other politicians and other priorities are respected. If you don't, you can't say that you're a big fan of local democracy – nor was the representative of Olsen's. At all, the article was marked by the fact that all the good that happens in society happens because money is flowing out from central government offices, and then you make sure that they are not overworked at the local level. The right and the bourgeois have a different view. We believe that the municipalities are a contribution to our overall democracy, they are a positive force and a level – elected by the people – below the state and closer to the voters. Municipalities have a separate responsibility towards their inhabitants in addressing important tasks, providing services, operating site development and spatial planning and being a local political institution. Of course, the State has an overall responsibility to ensure that municipalities have reasonable responsibilities, but development shows that the State is increasingly using the municipalities as a tool for its own priorities. At the same time, the State has increasingly committed the freedom of action of municipalities through rights legislation that triggers resources at individual level, without weighing it up or prioritising it. One might say it's a system that works, if the state pays for the laws that are passed, but the truth is that the municipalities are not financially covered by state law and regulations. This, of course, will, when not done, distort local priorities. It will also go beyond local political commitment and eventually turn the municipalities into government sectoral agencies. The danger of sectoral government policy is that it is not coordinated in total, while using local self-government actually gives a popularly elected body that, on behalf of its citizens, does a good priority job, which is one of the most important things in any democracy. In its alternative budget, the right has the same framework and growth for the municipal sector as the government’s structure, but the right wants greater local freedom, so that municipalities can make real priorities. At the time of the treatment of the income system in 2009, the Right proposed broad solutions for a broad majority. Instead, the red-green government chose to stick to a narrow majority, which, in our view, does not guarantee the municipal sector a more predictable, simpler or fairer tax system. It has also led to the current system of financing municipalities, maintaining local authority dependence on state revenues and mobilising less locally, local interests to facilitate economic development and employment. To the right, it is important to turn the income system from being a system of state political leadership to a system of innovation, growth and creativity. It is important to highlight the value of local anchoring of municipal income. The objective of a share of local tax revenue to the community is based on the simple desire to strengthen the link between those who pay the tax, the local decision-makers and the users of the service in the municipalities. For the Right, good communities and quality services are most important. In order for local self-government to function, the government must be an organizer, not a limiter. This means that when municipalities create values, they should have something left for this. Therefore, the Right wants municipalities to be more financed by their own tax revenues, inter alia. by retaining more of the corporation tax – specifically 4.25 pst. Less government remittance dependence and high local funding will help to strengthen self-government. More free means will also create the freedom to establish themselves more effectively in each municipality on the basis of knowledge of local conditions. In this context, it is necessary to clarify that the Right continues to provide the income guarantee scheme, which prevents the transition from one year to the next from becoming too abrupt. In the right, there is a need for a community reform involving a new division of tasks, which provides a basis for better services and a clearer division of labour between the State and the municipality. If the municipalities are to have more extensive tasks, they must also become larger. It will make them more robust against unforeseen changes. The closure of the county council, the merger of municipalities, the reduction in the number of county councils, the limitation of the county council's ability to review local democracy, the concentration of county councillors on legality control and, in fact, the review process, as well as the creation of an independent dispute resolution body, would be the basic elements of such a municipal reform. I record that we are once again discussing the government's financial framework for the municipality sector in Norway without the government addressing the following issues in a satisfactory way: Firstly, has the build-up of debt in times of good tax entry and high employment taken place so quickly that municipalities become vulnerable to even smaller interest rates later? Secondly, is the current form of budgeting satisfactory for the maintenance of real estate and facilities so that it is set aside sufficient for maintenance? Thirdly, will any initiative be taken at all to cut away unnecessary bureaucracy — the preparation of reports without a reader, and other measures to prevent the efficient use of resources both in the country and in the municipality? Moreover, I would like to remind you that the right alternatives within the local government sector are included in a larger whole in our alternative budget. In other areas, proposals have been put forward which will more effectively ensure knowledge and competitiveness which will also benefit the local economy. It is the seventh and last country's ability to produce profitable income that provides the basis for all income, not only for the income of households but also as a tax foundation for the solution of joint tasks, whether in the country or in the municipality. Finally, I would like to respond to some of Mr Hagen's challenges. He called for a clearer homage, especially from the Right, until what he a little hesitantly called the Nordic model, after being in the Norwegian – because it is quite right: the Norwegian model is not peculiar to Norway. If oil revenue is corrected, we are part of a larger North European community with the development of strong welfare countries with long historical traditions. Then you'll also see that not only social democratic governments have been involved in building the welfare states. We are all pleased that SV has gradually been given other countries as role models for their policies than the countries they used to have – 10, 20 and 30 years ago. Now those social systems no longer exist, so it is not so easy for SV to have them as models anymore, but it is good that they have come across on more domestic grounds and are enjoying the welfare society that both bourgeois and socialist governments have built in Norway without SV's government participation before 2005. I would also like to say that there is a very interesting resemblance between competitive outsourcing and privatisation by the representative Hagen. Competitive outsourcing only means comparing offers, and the public enterprise also has to submit offers. Privatisation will only be achieved if you are inefficient and lose the tenders. And then I have a history of sunshine from Oslo Sporveier: the tram buses were subjected to comparison. They started losing the first bid, they started to win, and today they are also running in neighboring municipalities. The bus company itself has become self-sustaining, while in the past it had large transfers from the municipal fund. Everyone got better – it got better deals for the passengers, and it got cheaper for the taxpayers. Otherwise, for the sake of order, I would like to bring up the Right proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e466	The representative Michael Tetzschner has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e471	The right mantra throughout the autumn has been that the Right has better solutions than the sitting government, and new ideas. In the notes we see that the Right repeats some of its old ideas, namely that the taxes should be balanced between municipalities. Right says: ‘The objective that a proportion of local tax revenue should be attributed to the community is based on the desire to strengthen the link between those paying the tax, the local decision-makers and the users of the services.’ It is reported that tax revenue is to be attributed to local communities and municipalities. But when we know that 90 pst. I wonder whether this distortion of tax equalisation is fair – that it will lead to an increase in the quality of all the municipalities in Norway, and that the municipalities do not end up empty as governed by the state, as the Right expresses it. Tax revenue is the largest source of income in municipalities. A change in tax equalisation will result in changes and major differences between municipalities. Is that desirable? And will it strengthen local democracy and local self-government, from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e483	It is tempting to answer that this line would have been unnecessary if the representative Olsen had heard my post, because I just explained the idea behind this to link local value creation to local tax power. We believe that the sum of what is created is not final, but that there are dynamic elements in encouraging municipalities to help business, to help create jobs and to have a conscious prioritisation of this also in their land policy and site development. If you look at the world as static as the representative Olsen does, you could probably expect someone in the short run to lose a few dollars, but we think that such a conversion is a basic right way to promote growth and development in the communities. In addition, we are on the income guarantee scheme, which means that there will be no large outbursts from one year to the next.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e491	Let's get a little bit away from this with privatisation and outsourcing. My question to the Right is: Can the Right guarantee that pensions, salaries, measures of competence and trade union activity are not among the things to be competitive in any competitive environment? That's the one question. The second is that Michael Tetzschner says that what characterizes the citizens is trust in, and belief in, the municipal system – that it is important to give trust down the system, and in the decisions of a local government. Does this mean that the Progress Party can hardly be a bourgeois party? After all, the progress party is going a step backwards by not demonstrating trust in what is going on in the individual municipality – a standardised solution that the central government decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e500	I'll do the last one first. It is true that historically, the Progress Party has often advocated standardised solutions, dictated by the state. But we also see the Progress Party at close quarters in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, and I think that in the major issues we have had in recent years, they have given greater attention to local self-government. With regard to the cost elements to be included in a concrete bidding process for a winner, this may be due to more assessments than price alone — also quality. That's the two things you're looking for when you arrange tenders. The legal costs and calculations of legal enterprises are not the task of the organisers of the tenders. It will also have been discovered when the NSB was put to tender under the fourth EU Transport Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e507	The right redistributes money between municipalities through a change in corporate tax and reduced tax equalisation. 373 of the municipalities in the country will lose, 55 municipalities will benefit from the scheme. Among the 55 who serve on it are the richest municipalities. For example, Berum will. Make 240 million. SEK, Oslo 1 200 million. kr. In all seven counties, all municipalities will lose their way on Höres municipality site: Østfold, Hedmark, Oppland, Vestfold, Nord-Trøndelag, Troms and Finnmark. How can it stimulate innovation and industrial development in these seven counties, when municipalities are deprived of the opportunity to be an important player? Who is responsible for the regional development of these states?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e512	I think we have to take a step back and remember that the basis for all democracy is that there is consistency between taxation and voting rights. It is a principle that should also apply locally. When values are created in a community and one is a member of a local self-government, one does not get past a position on where that money is to be used – including for community solutions. The representative refers to numbers that have not been verified for me. I can only say that we are on the income guarantee scheme, which means that adjustments will take place over time. Then, too, the bias of the tax-intensive municipalities that today have taken too much of a load and which have scarcely the means to facilitate the infrastructure required by a growing population must be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e519	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e522	With the Central Party in government, there is an active district policy in which we invest for the future throughout the country. For the Centre Party, it is not just a priority, but a choice of values to bet on local school, local care and local value creation. People shall experience security and development, wherever they live. Unlike many other countries, we in Norway can actually live a life in vibrant, small communities throughout the country. In Norway, it is possible because we have pursued an active district policy that counteracts centralisation. It's possible because we've chosen to invest across the country, not just in the most central strokes. For the government, this is an important value choice. Someone wants to go in a completely different direction. For 2013, the government proposes a budget for regional and regional policy of about 2.7 billion. kr. Most of the funds are used to stimulate value creation and local social development and are mainly used in the field of district policy. Regional balance in housing and economic development is central to the Centre Party and important for the whole country – not least for those living in big cities and experiencing challenges related to pressures on housing prices and infrastructure. Since 2005, the government has strengthened the municipality's economy by 61 billion. kr. Half of the growth in income has come as free income. During the same period, there have been 55 000 more annual works in the municipal sector. Although some people want to give the impression of something else, administrative and bureaucracy have not grown. In general, we talk about annual work in the kindergarten, school and care sectors. There are still challenges in many municipalities, but the big picture is that the municipalities with this government have had room to provide good services to more and more people. Also in 2013 there will be room for a high level of activity in Norwegian municipalities. In some municipalities and areas, housing shortages may impede the development of industry or the recruitment of key competences in both the private and public sectors, especially in municipalities where housing construction costs are well above market value. Under the pilot scheme Dwelling in districts, the Husbank grants grants on the basis of applications from the twelve participating municipalities. The grant shall contribute to the development of attractive local communities. This is an exciting experiment with a high transfer value to other municipalities. I record that the Progress Party wants to cut the entire scheme before the trial period is over. For my part, I look forward to the evaluation and hope it becomes a permanent scheme. I record that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party either want to liquidate or reduce the county council's role as regional development actor. In part, they point out that they prefer to bet on transportation. Here it's not about either – or, but about both – and, and I think the county council is doing an important job as a decentralised manager of funds for regional development and innovation. The voters will meet two clear options in the next year's big elections: a government of the Right and the Advance Party that will make rich municipalities richer and poorer municipalities poorer, or a red-green government that includes the Centre Party, where the revenues of the municipalities are smoothed out so that all citizens are guaranteed equivalent services and business opportunities. The right-wing welfare of the inhabitants of nearly 380 municipalities is justified by their desire to stimulate the creation of values. The centre party doesn't believe in a miserable local economy creating entrepreneurs and new jobs in District Norway. The redistribution of the right will lead to rich municipalities fighting to conquer the already tax-intensive inhabitants and businesses. The centre party has contributed to a reduction in the income gap between municipalities by the red-green government. Today the municipalities are allowed to retain 40 pst. of own tax revenue and corporation tax is State. The other revenue is re-allocated in transfers according to the expenditure needs of schools, care for the elderly, etc. No one will be surprised that the arrangement of the Progress Party will help to create even greater differences between municipalities. The party has signaled that they want to phase out the small municipal grant, which will only affect a total of 158 small district municipalities, which will thus have even less opportunity to provide good services to their inhabitants. At the same time, when we see that both the Right and the Advance Party propose dramatic cuts both in agricultural policy and in district policy, it is not particularly bright prospects for District Norway if the Right and Advance Party were to succeed in obtaining a majority after the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e545	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e548	The Ministry of Finance has decided in the capital regulation that it is 20 pst. More risky to lend money to municipalities than to the state. The Foundation is an EU Risk Assessment Directive. This costs Norwegian municipalities approx. 1 billion. kr per year. What is real in the EU is that most EU countries have not introduced this regulation, but Norway has. Does the Centerpartie mean that it is more risky to lend money to municipalities than to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e555	Like many others, I'm worried about the debt build-up that's in Norwegian municipalities, and it's going to be a challenge if we get an interest rate increase. We know that we get an interest rate increase once, but we don't know when it comes, and we know that the debt build-up in Norwegian municipalities is big. After all, when the Ministry of Finance takes that risk assessment, there is a signal to the municipalities that they should be careful with further debt build-up. But I think that most municipalities are reasonable in terms of their borrowings, and that they take into account that there may be a different interest rate trend in the time that comes, with the risk it obviously entails.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e560	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e563	The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. This presupposes that power distribution and funding are such that both municipalities and county municipalities have the means to carry out their tasks. The municipality is the main provider of welfare services. This requires a predictable and good municipal economy, and that is in the light of what we are discussing today in the State budget for 2013. Will the budget contribute to giving freedom of action and better decision-making to municipalities? That's the question. There is a broad consensus that there must be consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipality and the finances of the municipality. It is therefore essential that state reforms and impositions are followed up by adequate free means. The municipalities are the first line service to facilitate business and social development. This also requires revenue to be proportionate to the responsibilities and obligations arising therefrom. For many, economic developments have been the status quo in the last few years, and unfortunately, for some municipalities, they face major challenges and have to cut their budgets. We see these challenges, among other things: in a survey of national rapporteurs and advisers showing that the gap between expectations and what the local economy provides has increased in recent years. We have to be extremely careful about pushing the bill these expectations create, to the municipality alone. So the government is adding up to a growth in the total income of the local government sector of about 7 billion. kr. Furthermore, the government is proposing a growth in free income for municipalities of 5 billion. kr. This includes, among other things: UNIO and KS stated that only sufficient will be available to maintain operation and to cover the costs of population development and the current costs of compensation of employees in municipalities. They also claim that there is little room for continued expansion and improvement of the quality of municipal services. I also need to show that both the KS and the UN believe that the government's proposal to increase free revenues is not enough, they do not allow for any new investments. The Christian People's Party believes that municipalities must be given financial freedom for new investments, including: in the care of the elderly, and that there is a need to increase the free income of the municipalities by nearly 1 billion. kr, so that municipalities can improve the quality of care for the elderly, inter alia. with more than one home and hospital staff. Here I just want to refer to the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, where we proposed to increase the free income of municipalities by almost 1 billion. kr. In recent years, debt has increased dramatically in the municipal sector. Net debt has increased from 20 pst. from revenue at the end of 2007 to more than 40 pst. at the end of 2011. During the Bondevik I government, the net debt was as low as around 10 p.m. of the revenue. This makes municipalities very vulnerable to any interest rate increase. All of this means that municipalities face an uncertain future in purely economic terms, and this will, of course, limit the freedom of action, decision-making and autonomy of municipalities. As a Christian People's Party politician, I consider this to be very worrying, as we want to facilitate a society where decisions are made at the lowest appropriate level. In addition to the fact that municipalities face economically uncertain times, the government spends its time attaching rights to basic services to the population. The government finances, among other things: by submitting an individual right to user-controlled personal assistance proposal, BPA. This mechanism is essential to promote independence and independence for people with disabilities. We in the Christian People's Party believe that all those with disabilities who need it must have individual rights to this service, right from birth. For many, it is absolutely vital to feel independence and dignity, and in our alternative budget we have allocated 150 million. to this end, in addition to what the government proposed in its budget. We in the Christian People's Party want a viable local democracy that has both freedom of action and autonomy. We see that the government has pushed tasks over to the municipalities, and in addition they have given the municipalities the bill for many of those tasks. Therefore, I believe that once again there is a need to clarify that if the municipalities are assigned new tasks, the municipalities must receive equivalent increased subsidies. Only that will ensure the municipalities really self-government, and that cannot be stressed enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e583	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e586	According to what I understand, the Christian People's Party is also interested in us being able to live in the whole country – using all of Norway. Then I wonder why the Christian People's Party will cut close to 600 million. kr in the regional development funds of counties. These funds are just there to enable us to have economic development and for the districts to become good places to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e591	Thank you for the question. The representative Hilde Magnusson has also understood the Christian People's Party quite correctly. We want the whole country to become operational. What's important when you're reading each other's budgets is to see the whole thing. Where the cuts are taken is one thing, but on the other hand you also have to look at where the investments are. With regard to this money, it was also a proposal we had last year in our alternative budget. I don't remember it being pointed out that time. So we want to spend that money on another necessary measure, which is also incredibly important for business development in the districts, namely transport and infrastructure. The feedback from business, especially in districts, is that they are asking us to allocate more money to infrastructure, precisely because it also has a business development side in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e600	My question to any competitive outlook is about pension conditions, pay conditions, competence, trade union activity, staff standards, which will be a theme in the sense that one can be allowed to four on all these activities and yet be awarded a grant? The progress party did not answer the question, right I think I answered in such a way that they said it might well be possible. Now we are excited about the Christian People's Party's answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e607	The policies of the Christian People's Party stand firm in this area. Competition is not the most advanced in the political thinking of the Christian People's Party. I also believe that there are areas within the municipal sector that are not suitable for either privatisation or competitive outsourcing. Our policy is going to stand firm. I'm absolutely sure that we can talk well with the other parties on the non-socialist side about this. The most important thing is that welfare production in municipalities is maintained. A discussion on privatisation and outsourcing will certainly come, but there will be a firm Christian People's Party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e614	I will follow up my first line to the representative Becquerad. It is clear that the money can be disposed of in another way – that is what is a priority. But I'm wondering a little bit about the 600 million. kr to be used for regional development and to be used for transport. In the budget, the Christian People's Party has also spent nearly 300 million. kr on regional development, so the money is, as I see it, spent twice. Then my question is: are the posts in the Christian People's Party budget linked? It's a little hard to spend the same money twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e619	I just want to say what I said in my first line, that this money has gone in to strengthen the transport budget, because we see that there is a need for a stronger bet in addition to what the government is proposing. In particular, it is precisely when it comes to district policy and industrial development in the districts. I myself come from a state where there are feedback from industry in the districts, that there needs to be a higher commitment on the road. Then I expect the posts on our budget to be linked. It is as important for the Christian People's Party as it is for the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e626	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e629	The left is not represented in the committee, and I refer to our alternative state budget. But I need to make some comments about this part of the budget in particular. It has been raised beyond doubt that there is more money for the municipalities in the government's draft budget. It also supports the Left. But there are also more obligations there. We know that the municipalities do not perceive that they have got a broader space for action, as much of that space for action is eaten up by the obligations they have, or is imposed. The municipality may be the main welfare producer for Norwegian citizens in everyday life. At the same time, we see that expectations increase on the part of citizens, both in terms of professionalism, competence and quality of services provided by the municipality. This will be the major challenge for the future municipal sector. We need to increase professionalism, we need to increase competence, and we need to increase the quality of the services we provide to the citizens. That's why the Left also thinks it's important to move power down the system. We see today that we are still away, step by step, bit by bit, moving power into this hall and away from the local, elected levels. If we're going to do some real action to move power down again, we're going to be required to have something larger than what we have today, because the size here actually means something. In order to create services based on the establishment of an environment of competence, it is actually necessary to have an environment of competence to develop those services. The biggest challenge, as we see it, when it comes to shifting power down, is to have municipalities that are large enough to take care of them. Or to quote my mother: we have the same municipal structure in Norway now when we drive a car, as we had when we drove a horse and drove. Regional development funds are also an important part of this budget. Then I must say that I am quite surprised that the government is going into the regional employers' fee, the RDA scheme, which is both important and targeted, and which is a district policy instrument that we believe works. Therefore, the left cut reverses 70.9 million. kr in its alternative state budget. Another point regarding regional development, which we see as important in the Left view, is the incubator environment of SIVA. These incubator environments make us get more businesses, they survive longer, they get bigger, they get more market access, and they get more employees. In fact, for each of the heads that we put in SIVA, we get 16 dollars and 50 cents back. It's, based on what I can assess, a very good investment. That's why I'm surprised that government won't invest in something that both leads to regional development, district development and industrial development, and that's as effective as using incubator environments much more. The left has increased the appropriations in this field by 75 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e653	I am very pleased that the Left has so many good reflections on how important it is to support regional development. Thank you! My question is the standard question that I have put to the three previous parties: On competitive outsourcing, it will then be at the expense of pension entitlements, wages, trade union activity, recruitment standards, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e660	If you use outsourcing, it's to get new ways of doing things, not to put employees' rights on the tender. That's not the goal of that. The objective is that we also need a greater degree of innovation, innovation and new ways of doing things in the public sector. It's not always the way we run the municipalities, it's the framework that makes us capable of creating the news. I am willing to see if we can use the law to ensure that this is not what you have to tender for when it comes to employee rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e665	The representative Grande is talking about shifting power downwards, but at the same time says that size means something, with reference to municipal structure. There are many here in the Chamber who agree that there is a need for larger municipalities. The question is, how can we do this? I'm curious about what the recipe of the representative Skei Grandes and the left is. Should this be done on a voluntary basis, or should the Stortinget make an assessment – coercion is the word used – or should the Stortinget take responsibility for municipal structure? In that case – how is it compatible with moving power downwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e670	I think it's possible to make a deal with the local government sector a little bit like it was done in Denmark, where you say you're willing to move power down in different areas, if you can create units big enough to hold that power. What we saw in Denmark then was that they got a contraction in logical structures, which was also driven from below because they wanted to move more power down. We now have many areas, for example: in the field of child protection and in the health and care sector, which I think would have been very useful in providing better services if we had moved them closer to the citizens. But then we have to have big units that are capable of accepting it. I think that the Danish model, where you use 'yellow roots' to merge, is actually a process that would have been constructive to have included in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e675	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e678	The government's aim is to ensure the security and freedom of its inhabitants. That's why we give the municipalities so high priority. It is the municipalities that provide the basic welfare services to the inhabitants, such as kindergarten, school and care services. It's the municipalities and the people who work there who tend to make our everyday life work. We're concerned that people should have good public services wherever they live in our country. Therefore, we have achieved a real growth in revenue of more than 20 pst. since 2005. In 2013, the municipal sector will have more than 400 billion. kr. We give the municipalities trust and room for action. This provides the best built-in services. It also makes the best and smartest use of the money. Difor is over 300 billion. of the total free income. This means that the municipalities themselves decide on the objectives for which three-quarters of the revenues are to be used. That's what we call local self-government. The 2013 revenue frame also facilitates the growth of municipal services in the future. I have deep respect for the fact that the challenges vary between municipalities. Some have stable growth in income and control of the economy; others have challenges. I know that small municipalities where the population is reduced have a particular challenge, because when the population falls, the framework transfers are also reduced. This is a challenge we need to look at more closely. History has taught us that it is not given that the municipalities have the muscles to do the job. The Right Party and the Progress Party will change the tax equalisation and reintroduce corporate taxes for municipalities. It will give a dramatic redistribution of income between municipalities. The large majority of municipalities will lose on such a conversion – a total of 373. Service provision in these municipalities will be compromised. In addition, the party of progress will remove the small municipal advantage. It will put 158 smaller municipalities and their inhabitants in an even more difficult situation. For a number of municipalities in Norway, the autumn of 2013 offers something more than a direction option. For some of them, it's a destiny. Living territory and activity in the whole country is one of the things that makes us so happy in our country. Unlike many other countries, we can actually choose a life in vibrant, small communities throughout Norway. It is possible because we have led an active district policy that counteracts the heavy gravity of centralisation. It is possible because we have chosen to invest in the future in the whole country, not just in the most central strata. For the government, this is a value option. And that's an important choice, because we know that the other party wants to go in another direction. In Norway, policy has a unique regional balance. We have produced results we can be proud of. We have people working all over the country. In the last few years, we have had a growth in the population that has benefited both the city and the country. It's not random that we have it this way, and it's not luck either. The balance between regions is good because we are pursuing a policy with precisely that as a goal. Norway is going well precisely because we are using the whole country. This government has facilitated increased employment and activity throughout the country. We facilitate local business development by focusing on broadband, business development and entrepreneurship, good services and local community development. We have increased drug use in both the narrow and the broad rural and regional policies, and we see that we have something left to do so. We must have a coordinated and holistic national regional development policy. But the municipalities and states themselves know what is needed in the individual region. Thus, there is a strong right of self-determination over resources for regional development. The funds are an important part of the implementation of the rural policy promise. We do not adopt attractive communities and business start-ups here. We're making it possible for communities to have the means to create activity and for businesses to establish themselves. Strong regional and regional policies are important for all parts of our country. We need more housing in Norway. The housing debate has been running high in the last time. Let me remind you that those who had it tough in the housing market before have it even tougher now. There is a difference between not being able to get a dwelling and not getting a dwelling in the web the area you want. The government is facilitating higher housing construction and a good housing social tool. This will be the central theme of the building policy message we present to spring. Municipalities must be able to provide housing for disadvantaged people in the housing market. Therefore, we strengthen the permissions for rentals and the right to set up. We also make it possible for older ones to live in their own homes any longer. We do this by strengthening the permissions to adapt housing for the elderly and others with reduced function. Before the summer, we presented the building policy message, which will come back later today. We want better quality of what we build. We must build for the future and maintain our competence – and raise it – in the industry. At the same time, I am particularly busy getting a simpler and more efficient construction business process. We are working on this in cooperation with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e711	The Minister of Local Affairs indicates that more money has been given to municipalities. This is true, but local authorities have also increased costs, increased costs and more tasks. Interaction reform is one of the tasks and challenges facing municipalities. In October this year, a R & D report was prepared by NORUT on behalf of KS. He states that the municipalities have had expenditures of 2 billion so far. kr in addition to the costs for which municipalities have been compensated for in connection with the Interaction Reform. I guess the municipal minister is familiar with this report, which is written on the wings of the KS, and I want the municipal minister to comment on that report and say if she thinks he is right or if he gives a wrong picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e722	Both the calculations that were made in advance of the Reform of Cooperation, and those that were, of course, running, were made in close cooperation between the government at the Ministry of Health and Welfare, my department and KS. I believe that the report that KS has been prepared will be included in the ongoing consultation arrangement that we have. I think it would be wrong for me to go into that report and comment on him here. I have not responded enough to him to do so, but I can promise the representative that in the meeting we will have with KS, both the report and the situation that we get both positive and more critical messages about, on the table and the host handle. For we have always said that we should follow closely the development of the policy reform we have seen, which is called the Cooperation Reform. And we're going to follow it up – both from my side and from the Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e727	The centre party is a self-declared member of local self-government. Then there are messages from many municipalities that they have problems recruiting people to stand on the municipal election lists because they don't realize that municipal autonomy is real. My question to the Council of State, and perhaps also to her as head of the central party, is whether the Council of State is going to promote a single concrete initiative to either increase the powers of the municipalities or cut off a burdensome burden that currently limits local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e734	It's interesting to sit in the hall today and right on the Right and the Progress Party's main posts. The two parties seem to me to be diametrically disputing about a significant point attached to municipal self-government. Where the Right will provide freer toes – at least in the word – the Progress Party will have more earmarks, more central management and more price financing. The most important thing we have done for local self-government is to increase the free resources, so that the municipalities themselves now have three-quarters of the framework, and to provide economic space for real policy development in the municipalities. These are perhaps the two most important measures. And so I have notice, as the representative also knows, that we should go through the countermeasure. I think it is important in an important area called construction axis management and the planning side of it. Now I didn't allow any more time, but I could have had several good things done by the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e744	I have recorded that the KS was satisfied with the signals in the municipal bill, but I took a few steps back when the realities came to light in the budget. For once again, both KS and UNIO clarify that the money only goes to meet the most precarious needs – that is, to keep things together. The State imposes new responsibilities on a municipality without necessarily accompanying it by the necessary means. The interaction reform – a state reform – turns out to be a reform that also eats from the municipal register. It is not impressive that the richest government of the time, with more money than ever, has given more than before. It's just completely natural. What is alarming is that the government's municipal policy has led to an increase in debt and a sustained and rising maintenance set-up. So then my question to the municipal minister is: can she stand by the fact that, during the richest government of the time, the municipalities are barely kept in check through a persistently weak local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e755	It's great to be the richest government in the world's richest country. It was a new twist. It's probably more about us being the government that might prioritize – perhaps prioritizing, among other things. local economy and not cut, may prioritize inter-municipal smoothing instead of making the richest richer that we know that potential government partners of the Christian People's Party will do. We have potential not to have growth in the tax district, but growth in the municipal budget. I'm very proud of what the government has done in this area, but we see, as I said in my post, that especially the municipalities that have stagnation or negative population development have a challenge. We're forced to go into it and look at it. But the total – in macro – the municipal economy is good. It also turned out that we now had the municipal conference in the fall. It was hardly a single question from the spokespersons associated with the local economy, and it says that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e762	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e765	We want everyone to have a real freedom to live where they want to. In order to achieve this, it is absolutely imperative to ensure equivalent living conditions and use resources throughout the country. People live mainly where you get a job. The intention of the Workers' Party is to continue its territorial policy commitment. We will strengthen local and regional growth rates in areas with low economic growth, in regions with a long distance from larger markets and in regions with a one-sided industrial structure. For us, it is important to ensure that skills jobs are spread across the country. At the same time, we will facilitate the exploitation of value creation potential and the challenges of living in all parts of the country — including in areas with growth in the economy and population. Well-functioning towns and cities are a prerequisite for viable regions, relocation and value creation. We want an open economy with societally sensitive actors and an active public commitment. We will facilitate private business operators with good framework conditions and predictability. However, the social objectives are the overall economic objectives of the enterprise. To achieve policy objectives, we will therefore use public governance tools. If necessary, we will use international agreements, laws and regulations, support schemes, concessions, regulations and public purchases, operations and ownership. We want an interaction between the business community, the social partners, researchers and the public to develop an active Norwegian industrial policy. In this form, the county council plays an important role as a regional development actor. Therefore, each year we allocate significant funds for regional development and innovation — to the next year over 1.5 billion. kr. Money goes to broadband, waterworks, municipal industrial areas and ports — important infrastructure. And through its industrial effort has, for example, Sogn and Fjordane counties allocated funds to a new dock in Florø. Founders receive support for competence, the establishment of relationships, organisation or product development. These are projects that contribute to innovation, entrepreneurship and conversion and would not be realised without public support. Projects are important for competitiveness throughout the country. The development incubator at the Bergen High School, the industrial incubator in Sunnhordland and the new industrial incubator in North Hordland have all received support. The money goes to research and sectoral programmes. In Buskerud, there are, among other things, bet on NCE Systems Engineering at Kongsberg, a knowledge cluster of high-tech companies. The representative Bent Höie was therefore quite right when he spoke to Stavanger on February 7th this year: ‘Ap and Right have completely different views of society that will never be reconciled.’ He also says, ‘We represent two different social views.’ The right-hand answer is different. The right has no belief in the role of the county council as a regional development actor. For this reason, the aid for such measures is cut to the right by 1.5 billion. kr. Where in the Workers' Party we are forward, active and offensive, Right will be backward, passive and defensive. Where we believe the community should intervene, this leaves the Right entirely to the market forces. In fact, 150 million will be returned. kr to local business development in a new line in the budget. According to the note to the post last year, the money is to be administered by cooperating municipalities, regional councils etc. in particularly underprivileged municipalities. I have two comments for that. One is that the right in 2013 is proposing 50 million. kr less than in 2012. It can mean nothing but that they believe that the need has become less. Perhaps the Right has taken on board that the World Bank ranks Norway as one of the best countries to run stores and businesses? The second is that of the 1.5 billion. kr Right cutter, goes over 200 million. kr already to regional councils and municipalities. The 150 million. kr The right to present as a bet on local business development is in reality a cut. Then we hear that both the Right Party and the Advance Party argue that this money goes to what business demands: investment in infrastructure and roads. At the same time, I have heard the Right on repeated occasions in this Chamber today talk about the importance of local self-determination and the belief in local democracy. The county councils have been given a significant responsibility for transport efforts and investment in infrastructure. Is it that the Right only has faith in municipal self-determination and not any belief in regional democracy? It is clear that the representative Erna Solberg is serious – Norway is to be taken in a completely different direction, in which market forces are to be determined and the community is to be cheap economic cycles. That's a different direction than what we want. We believe that the community plays an important role, and will fence around the Norwegian model. Then the voters will decide for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e799	I record that the municipal minister and the rest of the government have managed to get the city and country to go hand in hand to cut in public settings. I have a good overview of the cuts that the municipalities in my own country, Sogn and Fjordane, have to take. In previous debates, I have named Gloppen kommune, which is the exhibition window of the Center Party in Sogn and Fjordane. That's where they're going to have to cut 18 million. kr in 2013 – 18 mill. kr! The winners of Sogn and Fjord must also cut – some large cuts must be made. When one looks through the country's local authorities and reads about the challenges that local authorities have to balance their budgets, it is in stark contrast to the boasts I hear from both the local government and the representatives of the red-green government. My claim is that I have never experienced, both now as a representative of the population and as former municipal politicians, that the municipal income has been in proportion to the costs and tasks that our local politicians are required to deliver to their inhabitants. The interaction reform fears me becoming a very costly reform for the municipalities. In March 2013, municipalities will receive the final calculation for 2012. This will be an invoice for the patient groups who have been hospitalised and who the municipalities have to pay 20 pst. off. I record that this is going to be far more expensive than the municipalities have been transferred from healthcare professionals to cover this co-financing. This must be covered in the ordinary budget of the municipalities. I would then like to ask the Minister for Municipalities: will the additional costs to the municipalities be adjusted by the government in the revised national budget? If not, this will greatly affect their other important tasks, such as: education, health and care, and in particular the health promotion measures that were the main focus of the Interaction Reform. Most of the cuts that I record for local politicians now work to balance their budgets will affect the weakest groups, such as elderly, psychiatric patients and nursing. I've traveled a lot with the committee around the municipalities. I hear what our local politicians say about the local economy. I hear what KS says about the same thing. When the municipal minister says that she only hears praises about the municipal economy, I draw the conclusion that the municipal minister is out to decorate the reality that is out in the municipalities. When I talk to municipal politicians, I have the impression that they feel that the state gives with one hand and takes with the other. A good example of this is the case we in the Progress Party, with the support of KS, that the government has taken a European directive to its heart, that of risk assessment of municipalities. Here, according to KS estimates, the government draws in 1 billion. NOK of what would be free funds for the municipalities. I can't believe that it would be more risky to lend money to the municipalities than to the state, because the County can prevent irresponsible borrowing. When the Terra municipalities were not bankrupt, it is my claim that no other municipalities will be bankrupt. When the red-greens took over in 2005, there was an economic uplift to the municipalities in the first year. This gave rise to great optimism among municipal politicians, and there was no way for the Minister to promise how this would be followed up for years to come. Then, in recent years, we have seen that it is the Workers' Party's savings knife that now controls the municipal economy, and we have seen that many other things where the municipal minister, the party leader in the Central Party, promises besides the whole country, have got a sudden stop from the Prime Minister's office. This proves with all clarity that the party leader of the Center Party, who is also a municipal minister, does not have any influence at all in the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e814	Right wants an overall review of the income system for the local government sector. We want changes that stimulate and ensure a positive development in municipal income. The aim is to build up under local self-government by retaining a share of corporation tax and a greater share of own tax revenue. At the same time, in order not to be abruptly altered, we want to retain the guarantee of income for the municipalities, which means that the changes will not be large from year to year. The point of this is to stimulate municipalities to facilitate jobs and to facilitate the improvement of the tax base in each municipality. Norway is facing a very exciting development. It is predicted that in 17 years we will have one million new inhabitants – the number will increase from five to six million. It is also predicted that 900,000 of this million new residents will live in and around the larger cities. Then the question of the government parties, which is so important, and which through the Council of State now expresses great concern that the smallest municipalities that lose their inhabitants may be at risk of problems because the framework grant is falling: When will the government start to look at the challenges of the big cities? When will the government start to look at the challenges it faces in press areas, where one has to facilitate infrastructure and housing, etc.? If the answer from the Council of State, as right-wing wishes, is a municipal reform where one looks at the tasks of the municipalities and constructs the municipal map after that, where one ensures that the municipalities are sustainable and have competence in all important areas that can provide the inhabitants with a good, full-fledged offer that is almost identical across the country, I am naturally involved in such a discussion. But if a decrease in municipal income due to a decline in the population is to be compensated for by an increase in income, it is wrong. I look forward to the review that the Council of State has announced. I expect that it may be connected with the district policy announcement, which has been announced by the Council of State and which we have heard for several years. It's probably coming right before the Storting goes apart and a new choice is to be held. We have also heard a lot about the housing challenges, and we are still waiting for the housing announcement. When you have been in government for 7 1⁄2 years, the major policy areas need to be lifted, and the policy needs to be changed or decided in the right direction just before a decision is taken. It's okay. This means that the opposition, which may be in position next year, also has the opportunity to make changes to the population of this country. Because that's the people we're talking about. The population is probably equivalent if they live in Oslo or if they live in North Norway. It's a challenge that I think this government has taken a little hold of. There's still a pick that there's going to be distortions in the system if we were to shift in the right direction. The reality is that there are many of the large municipalities that are really struggling to organise good enough offers. That's why we want a review of the income system, where we get a starting point that emphasizes that value creation, facilitating jobs, is appreciated more. Budgetary debates around the municipalities of the year are now under way. It is often tried from the red-green side to doubt whether the emphasis is placed on giving citizens a good offer in the right-hand-controlled municipalities. Then we see that many of the municipalities that are red-green lighthouses are cutting at least the same amount. We have just received figures from Vinje municipality, which is an SV-steered municipality, where there is a sharp cut in the kindergarten offer. We have been informed by the municipality of Trondheim that it is being cut in the field of child protection and that it is being cut off in continuing education for teachers – things that are important for us to have a better society. I think the government should now take responsibility for its own policies. We have heard many speeches from the Red-Greens in this debate today, where they focus only on opposition policy and especially the Right Policy. It is nice to be mentioned, but it could be a good thing that a government, which has been sitting for 7 1⁄2 years, takes responsibility for its own policy. Actually, it's pretty significant that they don't. They have more than enough to talk about the opposition because they have so few new ideas themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e829	When I was in a similar debate a year ago, I began by saying that the government is working systematically and efficiently to renew the public sector. Since last year, the government has presented a digitization program that is the most ambitious ever. That shows the way on. We have followed up with concrete measures. In the draft budget, we have proposed about 1.4 billion. kr to ICT for important areas such as hub, health and police. We've already made sure that everyone can use BankID for login for all public digital services. We have started to work to change the legislation, so that digital solutions become the normal way of administration dealing with citizens. The Minister for Health has presented a separate communication on ICT in the health sector. We will soon submit a notice to Stortinget on privacy. The government’s digitisation programme is our main tool for renewing the public sector. By introducing more digital solutions for citizens and businesses while changing the way management works, labour is released to the tasks that depend on people performing them. At the same time, services become available to people regardless of opening hours and physical attendance. Digitisation also helps to increase the transparency of the way the administration works. Management policy has been in focus since the 22nd July report was presented. When we discuss Norwegian administration, it's important to remember the starting point. World Bank figures show that Norwegian government is world-class. But the July 22 report showed that there are also major challenges in our governance. Both the media and staff in different departments have had views on how public enterprises work, and last week we debated administrative policy here in this Chamber. A common feature of the debate is whether the established management systems generate too much reporting and control. It is an important debate. We also need to assess whether the Commission's comments on the effectiveness and performance orientation of 22 July are valid in more areas than in the field of preparedness. We have to see if we have a government where the employees are too afraid to make mistakes. Not least, we want to work on facilitating good governance in the state. We're going to cooperate with the employees, and we're going to use social media to see how the shoe prints. The government has been giving priority to public services over many years. There have been several employees in the public sector under our government. But that's not what the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party say in their comments, that there has been a strong growth in bureaucracy. The share of public employees has increased by 12 pst. – just like in private business. And the total number of public employees compared to the employees is 30 pst. – just as it was in 2005, yes, just as it was in 1992. We will continue to show the will and ability to develop the public sector. The employees are the ones who know where the shoe prints and are going to contribute to this development. The promotion party's greeting to employees in the state sector is to cut almost 80 million. kr in skills development schemes and training of trustees. This should be noticed by employees. As part of the Cultural Promise, the Government proposes an increase of 10 million to Sami cultural and language actions. kr annually. A total of 50 million. kr will be allocated to new cultural and language actions over the period 2013-2017. From 2013 onwards, the Sámi administrative area will be extended to the municipality of Røyrvik. This leads to an increase of 4.1 million. kr. It is above the 2013 budget of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church. kr as a result of the attack on the Government Quartet on 22 July 2011. The funds shall include, inter alia: used to secure and repair the government quarter, to secure replacement rooms, to rent replacement rooms and to increase shift crew. I believe that the budget presented will strengthen, improve and renew the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e850	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e853	A short time ago, the Council of State in Stortinget answered me a question about whether they have been in Denmark and looked at the changes that one has made in the field of ICT, where one has saved tens of billions of dollars. To that state council replied that they had. I believe that they thought that a lot of what Denmark has done is feasible here too. My question to the Council of State is: What is it that has been accomplished by changing work tasks and rationalizing within the public that has made public savings? And how much money has it now to save the public for with the changes you've made?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e860	It's absolutely right that we've been to Denmark and let ourselves be inspired. Denmark measured in some international rankings better results than we did in Norway in the field of digitisation. We've learned a lot from Denmark. Among other things, we have learned that we need to have an electronic login service, which allows us to use public services more extensively than we have done so far. We learned that we need an electronic mailbox, and we learned that we need to change the law, so digital solutions go ahead. That's what we started working on. Among other things, we have an agreement with BankID to put in place the electronic solutions that BankID will give us, and we are about to put in an electronic mailbox. The savings potential is high, it is sent, among other things. out 24 million single payments and 12 million letters from Nav. Only reducing the postage will be a significant savings, and therefore we are also betting on developing new ICT systems in Nav that will allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e865	I noticed that the Council of State once again places emphasis on everything that is to come, the programmes that are being launched, and that you are willing to invest billions to make it easier to manage Norway once in the future. Now it is not surprising that technical aids and ICT are gradually being used, as the departments used the telephone in their time, simply. But the question is, do you have any idea that it's simply functions that are unnecessary, whether there are forms that don't have to be submitted at all. It's not very helpful for business if you want to use the same number of hours on the form, even if you can send it to Altin later. There is a question of having conceptual changes on the poster, such as really streamlined and slender public administration, so that labour is freed for the provision of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e871	The Minister of Industry has a comprehensive business simplification programme. And for our part, we have started the job of going through the forms and the control tasks that are there, which we may not need. I think that'll challenge us all, because it's not so rare this hall or the press is asking for information that we might not have. My mantra is that we have to say no to some questions we get about creating new reports and new forms, and use the possibilities such as: StatRes has – StatRes is the system to help us get the necessary information from state-based underlying businesses in order not to have specific reporting. So I think it's important that we listen to the users and use the users out there, in user panels. We're going to work more to get users' views on this. Then we've started a work on a review of the directorates' management of the municipal sector. It will also help to reduce reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e880	I recorded that the Council of State used at least the last minute of its contribution to talk about an important political area, namely how we relate to our indigenous people. We have repeatedly seen examples of Samer being harassed and hoarded for her cultural origins in recent years. It's heartbreaking stories about people who have been bullied, expelled and even spotted because they're Samer. 3.5 pst. by the Norwegian majority of the population feel discriminated against, research shows that the total number of Sami-speaking Sami is 35 pst. So Samer experiences ten times more discrimination than ethnic Northmen. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the government has done enough and is doing enough to prevent discrimination against Sami people, when we read the alarming figures and see such serious cases of hot and hateful acts that we have seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e887	I agree with the representative, Mr Becquerad, that there are alarming figures in the studies that have been carried out. There is reason to take a strong distance from the heat that individuals have experienced. I am absolutely convinced that we have a job to do together: to stand up and be clear that what happens in some Sami environments is not acceptable. Then we need to use even more the institutions that are established to disseminate knowledge about Sami relations, to disseminate knowledge about what is the legal basis for our common policies and the arrangements that are. We have established Gáldu, which is an information centre on Sami relations. I have just carried out an evaluation of it, and I look forward to discussing further how we can use it to spread more knowledge about Sami conditions in the Sami areas and in the Norwegian environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e894	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e897	When we see the comments of the different parties on the municipal budget, it's like looking into two different worlds. The Right Party and the Progressive Party talk about an ever-growing bureaucracy under the Red-Green Government, about state bureaucrats repeatedly reviewing municipal decisions, and that a large public sector is an obstacle that only the most resource-intensive are finding. Against this is the red-green values: a strong public sector as a prerequisite for fair distribution, and a fair distribution of well-being – a welfare society that is, from time to time, capable of living in the best societies in the world. When the judgment of history is passed on to Stoltenberg II, this period will appear to be the period during which the municipalities received an economic upliftment and an unparalleled freedom of action. 70 new annual shifts in care and care every week since 2005 are not bureaucracy. I hope for everyone that this period will last for a long time, because Erna Solberg has said that the Right's goal is a completely different society. I'm not so sure if that's what people really want, I think maybe people actually want what the Christian People's Party has proposed, namely a strengthened system of user-driven personal assistant. But I think the representative Becquerad took a little bit, I think 150 million. kr is very short if one is to attach the right to this scheme. This, I think, needs to be worked out more thoroughly. When we debated the big message about the relationship between state and municipality, we had a rather violent debate about the municipalities that were called empty shells. Now I look to my satisfaction that only the Right is left with that remark – the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have jumped off. That's good, because it's some kind of poorer settlement of the municipalities and the municipal politicians that none of them deserve. It is enough to refer to the message of the KS in the budget hearing in the autumn. KS presented a file on the file that documented municipalities as able to meet challenges, addressing the interaction reform, which builds kindergartens and care facilities in line with the expectations of both the state and the population. Child protection has been a child of pain. Through targeted state investment, the situation is turning around. We've been most concerned about the small municipalities, but now KS says that it might be the small municipalities that do the best to meet that challenge. The role of municipalities as a welfare producer is indisputable. It's just the Progress Party that wants the government to provide care for the elderly, social assistance, etc. But when Right Michael Tetzschner points to the fact that the right lays the same financial framework for the municipal sector as the government, the right is probably a little blind passage on that particular path. Because if Erna Solberg had been allowed to continue the Right's starvation of the municipalities, and the Right's and Advance Party together had got free play to cut in welfare and give the money in the form of tax relief to those who really can afford to buy their services themselves, there would be no 60-70-billion to distribute to the Municipality of Norway. But municipalities also have more tasks than producing services. I think the comments and posts of the Advance Party and the Right underestimate the role of municipalities as community and community developers. We have discussed this before, over and over again, in the context of budgets and communications and in the context of various representation proposals from the opposition. Money is important, but money usage without goals and meaning leads to few places. We therefore adopted a new planning and building law in the previous period to strengthen the planning and coordination of resources across levels, sectors and the public and private sectors. But the law itself is not enough either, it must also be used. Of course, it's about land-use planning. Land use is not an objective in itself, but a tool to achieve the objectives of the development of a community that lies within the community part of the municipal plan. When right-wing comments state that municipal autonomy in Norway is weak in law and, in practice, is eroded more and more by state control, it is a siding. This is about politics, not about jus. The action room is there, it's about arresting it. But it is clear that when KS claims that the opposition institute is being abused, we have to tackle it – but the Minister for the Environment has already done so. It is important that state agencies act on behalf of and on the basis of policy priorities made by the government. If we get to that, forward-looking municipalities will join in and premise for their own development, and that trust and belief in local self-government has the red-green ones. That's why we're transferring a lot of money, and that's why we're transferring power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e914	I will also focus on the county roads in this year's debate on the future budget for the municipal sector. There is reason for concern. The counties have a comprehensive road network – the secondary road network in Norway is 44,000 km, with 550 tunnels, more than 10,000 bridges and 230 ferries. Only on bridge, berth and tunnel are maintenance seats run between 15 and 25 billion. kr. Of the 44 000 km, 17 000 km are new county roads. There are poorly maintained national roads which, through the government’s administrative reform, were 17 000 km of poorly maintained county roads from 1 January 2010. For comparison: the national road network is now 10 000 km. The county councils are asking for help. They are unable to cover up the maintenance life alone. They are asking for more help than the government has so far been willing to give. In response dated 3 December this year to questions 324, 2012–2013, to the Minister for Transport on the monitoring of the maintenance seat network, the Council of State states: ‘In order to obtain a comprehensive overview of the cost of removing the decay of the entire county road network, the Directorate of Road Administration has commissioned the regional road offices of the State Road Administration, at the request of the county authorities, to carry out a survey of other road objects on the county road network. [[road construction, drainage and road equipment]] The guidelines given for the assignment are identical to those given for the same road objects on highways. This means that the maintenance run on riksvägs and county roads are monitored on the same basis and using the same methodology. The monitoring of the county road network is expected to be completed early in 2013.’» It is good that the entire maintenance run on the county road network is now being surveyed, but it is critical that it has not been done as part of the preparation for the work on the new NTP. The councils also say. ‘If the county councils so wish, it may be possible to provide such data to the Storting, for example in the municipal proposal.’ The Progress Party wants this – we want an annual monitoring and reporting to Stortinget on the state of both the national road network and the county road network. When the Council of State also answers the following, the Party of Advancement becomes concerned: « The road authority of the Member State considers that the maintenance seat run measured in crowns is not appropriate as the overall indicator for the standard on the road network. The physical standard itself will be a better indicator.» The Progress Party then becomes alarmed that this could end with a cover-up of the maintenance seat drivage, simply because it is over-measured in crowns so that the Road Directorate believes that the government – directly and indirectly, with the framework so far put at its disposal – can cover this in the foreseeable future. It would be regrettable if the state of maintenance were covered, as it might seem that the Directorate of Roads is in charge. The county councils are asking for help to rust up bad roads. The Progress Party, with the support of the Right, proposes to transform the administrative reform in the field of transport. While we are waiting for a new government, the Progress Party in its alternative state budget for 2013 is proposing to increase the loan framework of the county councils to upgrade the county road network by 2 billion. kr. The Progress Party also proposes 150 million. kr more for racial protection of the county road network and 50 mill. kr more for the purchase of county roadside services. A common pot of 900 million. The road network will also benefit from road safety measures. The county councils are asking for help. They are unable to cover up the maintenance life alone. They are asking for more help than the government has so far been willing to give. The Party considers that a financing solution should also be put in place for the maintenance seat run on the county road network to ensure that these roads can receive the necessary upgrading within an acceptable time. It has to be a government finance solution. Until such time as the solution is reached, the Progress Party's 2013 budget proposal is good help and good news for the county councils and for all users of the county road network, the road network to ensure the functioning of everyday life in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e951	All countries have government, but only democracies have opposition. We are happy that Norway has both, and we take the opposition seriously. It doesn't seem like the representative of Greece likes it very much – he has complained in both his speeches that others are talking about the Right Policy. I can really understand that, but the party has to actually figure that out. There is no criticism that we are discussing the alternative in Norwegian policy. On the contrary, it is an important part of democracy that the opposition criticizes the government and vice versa. My theme is housing policy. Later today, we are going to discuss the big news about building policy, Good Building for a better society. Building policy and housing policy belong together. When we now deal with the state budget, I will take the opportunity to say something about housing policy. In the opinion of the Committee under point 4.2.2, we can read the following comment from the Party of Progress: ‘These members consider socialist solutions to housing challenges, such as social housing, cost-effective building standards and market restrictions, preventing the market mechanism in the housing market from functioning optimally. [[...]] Such solutions are expensive, resource-intensive, bureaucratic and are a source of corruption.» Is it correctly understood that the biggest opposition party of the Storting believes social housing is corrupt? What examples does the party have of this? And while the Progress Party points to social housing as part of the cause of higher housing prices, and in addition it believes that it provides corruption, the Christian People's Party promotes proposals to strengthen the housing social work beyond what the government has proposed. So it's not just the concrete solutions that burst violently, but the reality is also completely different from the parties that have warned that they want to cooperate to form government after the next elections. For the Workers' Party, there is no conflict between facilitating high levels of stable housing and social work for disadvantaged people. The housing aid is the largest and most important housing social scheme. It has been widely agreed that housing support is a good tool in the fight against poverty. The new law on housing aid comes into force on 1 January, and the government proposes £2.97 billion. kr for housing aid in 2013. It provides the basis that 120 000 households each receive NOK 25 000 in housing aid. The construction of housing for the disabled by municipalities is also important. Recently we passed 100,000 municipal dwellings on a national basis. It's historically loud. However, the most important thing also in social housing is to contribute to the increased provision of housing for all. We're in a period of historically high population growth, and it's noticed especially in and around the big cities. It is fundamentally positive that people have children, and that the Norwegian economy is going so well that household income is increasing and we are attracting labour from abroad. But it also leads to the need for new dwellings. Construction activity is on its way up. This year the government expects it to be completed beyond 30000 new dwellings. Since the mid-1980s, we have only had the same number of new dwellings for two single years, in 1988 and 2007, and yet the supply does not match demand. Evolution is moving in the right direction, but it still needs to be built more. Lack of political will in some municipalities, productivity and capacity challenges in the construction industry, lack of finished land for housing purposes and insufficient overall land and transport planning are among the causes. We will come back to this topic when we will deal with the building message later today. In this round I hope the representatives of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, and also the Right, who will cooperate with both, will help to clarify their views on housing-social work. Is it an area where any new government will give priority, as the Christian People's Party wishes in this year's state budget, or does it create the ground for corruption, as the Progress Party says?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e973	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e976	Justice and community are the framework for the 2013 State budget. Community solutions shall form the basis for the public to perform welfare tasks in the fields of health, care and education. One of the most important tasks for municipalities is municipal child protection. The children who need extra follow-up somehow need to be seen and get the help they need. Children who are in a vulnerable situation shall be confident that society is preparing for them. Unfortunately, we are not always able to do that, but in the 2013 state budget, the government is giving a further boost to child protection. The government proposes to strengthen municipal child protection by a further 205 million. kr in 2013. Municipalities shall be able to apply for funds for positions, skills and interaction actions. Together with the 2011 and 2012 bet, the total will be around 500 million. kr have been earmarked for municipal child protection. The Government has concluded a cooperation agreement between the State and KS on the further development of child protection. The agreement expires in 2013, but the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the KS are now assessing the agreement and discussing how to continue cooperation. The government also follows up NOU 2009 :8 Development of Child Protection Competence, the so-called Befring Committee. This sample has taken into account the qualification of child protection work. This year, work has been started on setting up a further training offer to qualify experienced child protection workers to provide professional guidance to new colleagues. The party of progress continues the weakening of national child protection. They will now open up a pilot project where the municipality will take full responsibility for the child protection service. Their strengthening of municipal child protection and private child protection services is set at 450 million. kr. But with a cut in the state child protection of 550 million. This is a misunderstanding of policy, given that the protection of children by the state is largely guaranteed to those children and young people who face the greatest challenges. They're moving 300 million. NOK of the cut for the purchase of private child protection services, but this is a small problem issue. The point of the measures taken is that they should be adapted to individual children and young people. Sometimes public measures are used, sometimes private measures are used. The Progress Party also wants to put the members down and transfer the cases to the ordinary courts. But what are we going to do with the competence that lies in the subjects, where everyone does a very good job in these very difficult matters? The government has strengthened the transfers to municipal child protection and will continue to do so in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e995	Some words about county budgets. The main role of regional policy and regional development is now played by county councils. In addition to responsibility for transport, public transport and secondary education, they have a major responsibility for industrial policy at local level. The regional development funds amount to approximately 2 billion. kr. I see from the parties' alternative draft budget that the Right and the Advance Party will cut these funds almost entirely. The right is spending some money on road investment and a small part on the development of small communities, but the point is that there are crumbs coming back. It is, in fact, to beat the legs of the whole regional and local economy. It is an instrument that we are talking about, which is aimed directly at business start-ups, at regional business programmes, at business areas, knowledge parks, etc. There is a flora of different efforts locally and regionally on entrepreneurial activities and on industrial development. In North Norway, that means about. 500 million. If the Right Budget had been adopted. But this is money that doesn't just go to North Norway, it goes to almost every county in the country, with the exception of the most central ones around Oslofjorden, where there are press areas from before. This is also not a «parallel» mechanism for the State, as stated in the comments of the Right and Advance Party. The main instrument scheme is practised and implemented and works together with Innovation Norway in some countries, but this is the regional instrument scheme. This is money that triggers new funds in the form of cooperative projects with business and with research. In addition, the Right in its alternative budget will cut 500 million. kr in the framework of the counties. 500 million. kr will be approx. 250-300 places in secondary or public transport and road construction. When we in a row here in the Stortinget challenge the Right if they know what they're doing, if they know the consequences if this is adopted, they answer that they haven't met any business managers who have asked for the county council. No, I haven't done that either, and I didn't expect to do that either. But I have met business leaders who have been very satisfied with this scheme and the money and the tools and what this has contributed to. In North Norway, I have met very happy business leaders in travel life and the leader of the NHO Travel Life, who are very pleased with the great investment in travel life that this scheme has contributed to. I have not told them that if the Right Alternative Budget had been adopted, this arrangement would have been completely terminated, but I intend to do so the next time I hit them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1010	The next speaker is Bendiks H. Arnesen. Arnesen is not present, and then I give the floor to the representative Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1014	Health and care services are a central municipal task and will be more central in the years to come. I am pleased that the municipal budget for 2013 contains important initiatives for the future of the elderly, as an increase in the allocation of day-time activities for people with dementia and an extension of the framework for the construction of day-to-day care facilities. 2012 has been a brand year for municipalities. Then start the conversion of health services in Norway. In the context of the cooperation reform, there was an overall consensus that many patients would be able to receive better treatment in municipalities than in overcrowded hospitals. It was a cross-political agreement that municipalities should be given financial responsibility for ready-to-print patients from day one. It was a cross-political agreement that municipalities should be responsible for the day-to-day treatment of emergency aid. I notice a lot of black measurement of the situation after one year, and it needs to be corrected. Most municipalities are well on track with their new health responsibilities. Local authorities accept ready-to- print patients, and there is a high level of activity to establish local services. The municipalities are committed to prevention and strengthen the competence of the municipal health and care services. There are also, of course, municipalities like wear and tear, and there, for example: printable patients are not accepted in time, or receive an offer that is not professionally good enough, but this will be better. In the Chamber today, it has also been a debate on funding. I would like to stress that new tasks should be followed by means, and that the economic development of the reform must be closely followed up in a cooperation between KS and the departments. It has also been a debate on the size of the municipality. When dealing with the cooperation reform, I think that both the Right, the Left and the Progress Party were very critical of whether the smaller municipalities would cope with this new health responsibility, and they called for a community reform. But it's not like it's the smallest municipalities that have the biggest problem today. My experience – and I have visited several municipalities – is that it is the small municipalities that are best placed to handle the new health responsibility. They have impressive overviews and good professional systems to review, for example. printable patients are placed at the right level in the municipality. Several municipalities have also already started establishing emergency facilities in cooperation with healthcare professionals. My experience is that the municipalities that wear the most, which have planned for the poor, are perhaps the largest municipalities, and especially the big cities. There is little evidence to suggest that the Right, Progress Party and Left are right that larger municipalities will automatically provide a better health supply. It's the largest municipalities that want to wear the most today. The Central Party and I are very concerned that we need to make the Cooperation Reform work better in the large municipalities, and I hope we get the opposition with us in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1031	The next speaker is Mr Heidi Ørnlo. Heidi Ørnlo is not present, so the floor goes to the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1036	There has been a very positive development in Kommune-Norway since 2005. In particular, the income system has contributed to good development throughout the country. Equalisation policy is about having equal opportunities and access to services wherever you live in the country. A balancing income system contributes greatly to that. When I read the comments from the right parties, I'm more than surprised. I will not comment on the municipal arrangements of the Advance Party, it is so extensive and detailed that it is not realistic, but I am more amazed at the Right, which so strongly contributes to centralisation with its structure. I would like to tell you about the municipality of the Highlands in the North Trøndelag. It has a base of 1,300 inhabitants. The Highlands are known for their annual revision festival and their incredible volunteering in this regard. The municipality has as slogans ‘Fly as high as you like — with both legs on the ground’, and that’s exactly what they do in the Highlands. Today's Businesses run their gas companies every year. These are businesses that go well and grow. The highlands have five of these, bringing the municipality to a full halt in terms of the number of enterprises compared to the population. But having five such companies is also a performance in relation to larger municipalities. The municipality's 8th and 9th grade students at secondary school perform best in the country on the national tests in reading, and the municipality is high on the Municipal Report municipality barometer. At all, it's going well in the Highlands. But the municipality is primarily an agricultural municipality. It means an industrial structure that gives less tax revenue both in terms of personal and corporate taxation than in more central and larger municipalities. For a municipality such as the Highlands, Højre’s approach to the municipal economy will mean a weakening of the municipality’s ability to continue to develop the municipality in the good direction that they are now doing. This will apply to a large number of municipalities in Norway. Although the Highlands were to join all other municipalities in Inner Namdal, it will not change the fact that there are few people living in the municipality and that agriculture is the dominant industry. My question will then be: why will the Right destroy the possibilities for development and settlement in the districts where great values for Norwegian society are produced every day? Because it's a conversion of the income system, as the Right will lead to. We saw this clearly during the previous Right-Registration, where large municipalities in central districts were also given priority. It does not help with more municipal freedom to decide about motor travel in the countryside and other local issues if there are no people living in the municipality who can take advantage of it for both nutrition and recreation. We have to facilitate housing and activity across the country. It makes the proposal for the budget of the majority, which is adopted today, by the financial condition of Kommune-Norge to meet the tasks they have with their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1051	The next speaker is Irene Johansen. Irene Johansen is not present. The President will, after the third announcement, just clarify that when you sign up on the list of speakers, it's an advantage to stay in the hall or in the vicinity of the hall. The word goes to the representative Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1058	It's always a pleasure to move forward in line. May it also apply to those in health queues! It was the speeches of the representative of Christoffersen and Haugli that prompted me to ask for the floor again, firstly because Christoffersen had objections to my description of the Alternative Community Sector of Right. We have the same growth and framework for the municipal sector as the government has, but we have another device, which I explained in my first post, which is to strengthen local self-government and the economic development of the municipalities. I was not opposed to it, but on the other hand, I was almost morally counseled not to consider what municipal minister Solberg would have done if she had remained after 2005, implying the Workers' Party calling to starve the municipalities. It's counterfactual history, and it's fun as family entertainment, but there's no source to understand the present because history just changed. What we can say, on the other hand, is that after voting against the tax reliefs adopted between 2001 and 2005, 24 billion. Thus, the red-green government found that the tax level adopted for 2004 was the reasonable, correct and prudent level of taxation. One might say that there was no bad tax level, because it has provided a basis for a balanced burden-sharing between taxpayers and public needs. It has given us growth and perhaps also helped to promote the wealth of money with which the government has later been able to adorn itself. So here we might say that if you first go into history, right has its share of the tax reliefs that have been given in the past and that have been growth-stimulating. The second article was by Håkon Haugli, who called for the opinion of the Right on social housing. He must then remember that we just agreed to vote for an extension of the start-up loan scheme and the Husbank's framework from 15 billion. DKK to 20 billion kr, and that otherwise we maintain our view that it was very unwise from one day to the other to increase the equity requirement by 50 pst, which really beats the housing dreams of young people in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1069	It has been interesting to follow the debate on a theme that really shows what a huge system choice to make the next harvest, where you really see the difference between a red-green government and a possible civil majority. It was Geir Jørgen Bekkevold who earlier in the debate characterised today's government as the «richest government of the times». Why did we get there? Well, that's exactly what the problem is for the previous speaker, that we have the ability to spend the big money on the community and to continue to strengthen the work in the municipalities for each of our citizens, while the Right Party and the Advance Party have committed themselves to massive tax cuts in the billions class. There is no one in this room who believes that it will lead to more money for municipalities, better opportunities to drive business development, better opportunities to build schools and hospitals, etc. What will make the picture even worse is the fact, as has also been said from this pulpit earlier in the debate, that there will be a strong redistribution between municipalities from the tax-rich municipalities to the tax-deprived municipalities, which will further strengthen the boundaries between the districts-Norway and the urban districts, and further weaken the opportunities to drive good economic development in the districts. What I really asked for is the proposal of the Progress Party in the same field, which I think it is time to settle. You cut everything to Sámi kindergartens, all to Sámi schools, all to Sámi newspapers, all to Sámi culture, all to Sámi language, yes, you even want to put the Sameting down. In the past, we may have been in this room a little over a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Norwegian policy, but now it's over now it's over, we can no longer stay silent about the policy that's going to make it a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit The other bourgeois parties sit still in the museum. We don't hear anyone take a settlement with this. And I ask myself, and I would like to challenge the right parties in the Chamber on this: is it because this is the case the Progress Party will be allowed to win in any civil cooperation? I would have liked to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1080	I did not get a good enough response from the representative Hagesetter in the change of line. We had an interesting exchange of words about efficiency in the public sector. Either the representative misunderstood me, or I expressed myself unclear, so I use the opportunity to try again to ask the question. We agreed that it is a political goal to have as high an efficiency as possible in the public sector – and by the public sector, we do believe that both state, state and municipality. The party of progress also has a note that goes on this. My criticism of the party was that while one is concerned about efficiency, one will introduce a new principle which in itself results in inefficiency, leaving the principle of framework management and will have a piece of price financing that is nuanced in some ways, but which will have to trigger a comprehensive, complex and bureaucratic reporting to the state to explain the use of money. At the same time, therefore, the Progress Party has a different note in its comments on the budget. Then they write: ‘The requirements for efficiency, reporting, competence, etc. make everyday life very difficult and, in some cases, unmanageable for many municipalities.’ The question I tried to ask the representative Hagesetter was: What are the requirements for efficiency in Norwegian municipalities that the Progress Party will remove? I thought the party tried to say that it was concerned with efficiency. For the Workers' Party and for this government, it is important that we drive innovation, conversion and efficiency in municipalities. In this context, the Minister of Renewal has also announced the so-called digitisation programme, which is a major and important effort precisely to challenge the entire public administration for digitisation and take advantage of the opportunities offered by new technologies to improve efficiency. But the Progress Party now says the opposite in its comments: it will remove the requirements for efficiency in municipalities. My question will then – as I hope Hageseter will use the opportunity to answer in his subsequent post: What are the requirements for efficiency and skills that make everyday life so difficult for Norwegian municipalities and that the Progress Party will remove?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1096	I agree with the representative Tetzschner that the Right has a different device on the financing of Kommune-Norway. Mr. Tetzschner's municipal council gets $1.2 billion. kr more to walk with, and my municipality gets 10 million. kr less to walk with. Otherwise I think the Council of State Rigmor Aasrud had a very good post about how important it is with the renewal of the public sector, and how much good is being done for the time being in terms of the renewal of the public sector. If we go down at the municipal level, I am a hot admirer of the project Together about a better municipality, which is growing steadily, partly by giving more money, but not least by the fact that there is so much interest out there just to take on what is best in the Norwegian model, this cooperation between the state and the municipality, here at KS, and not least what goes on at the negotiating parties LO, UNIO, YS and the academics. There is so much exciting development work going on out in Kommune-Norway that I think the state could learn a part of and be inspired by. In this sense, we might be able to try together on a better state as a new coordinated development project. My last point is also on this with regional levels. I am also fascinated, like many others, by the fact that, after seven years of opposition, not the Right Party and the Advance Party, individually and not least together, have developed a somewhat more coordinated policy on what is going to happen at our regional level. The party of progress has suddenly, almost as lightning from the clear sky, said here that it will bring down the state level. It suggests that it is possible to put in a court of law to fill the hole that is then there. Most of what a county does today is about guidance, management, supervision, control, like the country's listening post out there, and emergency work, etc., because there's nothing to do with court activity. So we really expect the Progress Party to come up with some completely different considerations about what this is going to be for an alternative system, before a so-called government can ask to investigate the matter. On the right, there are many beautiful formulations that want precisely social development to be governed from below, that it is the local and regional level and societies that are going to take on a more active roof than they do today. Then it is quite funny that one will remove the entire organisational structure at the regional level. One will take down the entire county municipal apparatus. Then there is one left with some random government agencies out there, but there is no one who can represent the whole, there is no one who can hold the political debates, which can take care of the political arena that we now have at regional level, which is both important for regional social development and important for the political parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1109	First, I would like to express my gratitude for the comments of representatives of the Government Party. That's what I think is good. Now it is quite right what was said by the representative, Eirik Sivertsen, that we do not want framework funding, we want need-driven government funding. We think that the problem for the municipalities is the rule management that one has today, where one controls in detail – so this is not that one has too much ear-marked resources and too little free resources. There we have said that we don't want to make new demands for the municipalities, give new tasks to the municipalities, but it comes with money. Interaction reform is a good example of a reform that was underfunded and creates major challenges for municipalities. In addition, there is a great deal of regulation that goes on, for example: the planning and building law, with regulations, etc., which brought with it an enormous need for bureaucracy in the municipalities to deal with this. Of course, it is particularly true for small municipalities that have problems simply complying with all the rules because one has too small a professional environment and therefore will have problems following up. Here we want a simplification, a red tape, and that will make you free money that is currently being used for administration and bureaucracy in municipalities, for services for the inhabitants. The representative Aksel Hagen was in on this with the county councilman, that we had come about as lightning from the clear sky and said that we would wind up the county office and introduce a administration court. This is something that we have done a lot of times and also had as a representative proposal, so this can't be anything new. The representative, Håkon Haugli, has also been reading our comments, and I think that is very good. There we show, among other things: that socialist solutions are against us when it comes to housing challenges and all of this, and then we write that such solutions ‘are expensive, resource-intensive, bureaucratic and provide ground for corruption’. Then we also show here that we want to ‘not go back to the time when it was price regulation and people had to pay money under the table to get a place to live’. The representative, Lise Christoffersen, said earlier that this was something with price regulation that we should consider introducing. We didn't think that, because there's a proposal that will create a ground floor for corruption and bribery and money under the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1126	When I am not so lucky to have the honour to meet here at Stortinget, I am the rapporteur in one of the municipalities that is being talked about a lot. I think it's natural for me to start by mentioning the fact that we're all privileged – if we raise our eyes and look at the challenges in many countries around us. Therefore, I find it a little strange to hear that several representatives of the government parties claim that pointing to the need for changes in the local government sector means that you want a weakened public sector. The fact is that not pointing to the importance of changes in the municipal sector will result in a significantly weakened local government sector as a future well-being provider, i.e. if you do not want to recognise the need for such a change. This is also a fact that the government has stressed when presenting the State budget for the municipal scheme for 2013 around the municipalities, namely that the challenges of the future in the municipal sector cannot be solved solely by spending more money on a system that is not willing to change. Then, during the debate, I have recorded that more people have pointed to the importance of the cooperation reform. It has been very gratifying to hear that more from the government parties have said that the cooperation reform should be fully financed. Then it becomes a little strange that the government is not willing to recognise the need to re-calculate the financial instruments involved in the cooperation reform. How is it to be made clear whether the cooperation reform is fully financed if one is not willing to re-calculate in a way that makes economic challenges related to implementation clear and clear, so as to avoid priorities that are not actually desired? Indeed, the Interaction Reform is a reform that is much more important than accepting pre-treated patients from healthcare companies. It is also about municipalities having a responsibility to facilitate general health work in municipalities. Therefore, I hope that it can be even clearer from the government that you recognise the need for recalculation and are willing to refinance what you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1135	I have a few comments and a correction from our side at the end of this debate. On page 60 of the resolution, the Right has proposed – and more have been mentioned – a re-posting from regional development to local economic development. The entry has been given the title ‘local management in protected areas’. It's never had a name before. It is called ‘local economic development’. So here it's creeping into a strange error in the setting. The same defects are also mentioned on page 49 and in the table of contents. So to the representative Stokkan-Grande, who has stepped into the debate of the Municipal Committee and deepened his common policy. I would like to point out – if you go into the NRK Same Radio and look at a notice from November 16th – that Erna Solberg clearly states that the Right is behind the common policy that is being pursued. On page 75 of the vote – the undersigned is the case rapporteur for the Sameet – it can be seen that on all items related to common policies, the whole of the Stortinget, minus the Progress Party, stands together on common policies. So there's little cause for concern in that area. Finally, I would like to say that there is a happy development in this year's budget – both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party agree that the regional development funds should be turned over to what the municipalities and industry demand most, namely infrastructure. It's a very good signal to give. That's where we want to put the funds, to get even more speed in District Norway, instead of letting it go through the county council, which is driving regional development – and that gives more effect, that's what people demand. As I have said in previous debates: I have never seen demonstration trains for regional food development, but I have seen demonstration trains for better roads in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1152	Just a few comments, the first on the cooperation reform. The red-greens have said that we will follow that reform carefully. The bill for it is made up in February – and if it turns out to be necessary, we will come back in this regard. We have forecasts that show a potential additional consumption of approx. 200 million. So these numbers are not ready yet. But now it's not that the local economy stands and falls on the form of interaction alone. I just want to remind you of what Ingeniill Olsen was inside his post. In addition to the strengthened transfers from the government, the tax revenue is better this year and the municipalities retain more of it. It's about the amount of about 5 billion. kr. That will lead me to the visit from the High Representative Michael Tetzschner. He refers to the right having the same growth, but another device compared to the government's arrangement. That's what I called a little blind passage in my first post because it would be different. So Michael Tetzschner says that what Erna Solberg would have done after 2005, and speculation about it, becomes counter-factual history – which can be fun as family entertainment. But the story became another, as the representative Tetzschner says. Yes, fortunately, history became a different one. Because we got a red-green government that reversed the bourgeois policy of scarcity towards the municipalities, that re-prioritised, and that did not go to 25 billion. kr in tax bills, to which the Right had committed – or 100 billion. In the case of tax laws, which the Progress Party has said they would have. In this debate, there has been a review from both the Right and the Advance Party, and the same trick is being used: various rapporteurs are being taken to the floor to talk down the red-green communiqué. But the undersigned was the rapporteur when Erna Solberg and Right crashed, and then I am a kind of truth witness, given that it was very scarce at the time. I have said it before, and I can repeat it: I have many, many times envied my successor in the rapporteur's chair as instead of living from hand to mouth, turning on each crown and moving money for every new thing to do, actually bathing in red-green money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1163	It is a very interesting debate to listen to, which shows that there are clear dividing lines in Norwegian policy. It's good when we go against a big shot. The dividing lines that are here in the hall today also have to put people around the country ahead of themselves. Then it's important that the parties also do the same when you're around the country, that you talk like a do when you're in here, and that you do it in the setting and in different documents here in the Stortinget. It is important for people in many districts to know, when talking up and talking positively about cuts in regional development funds, how important these funds are for nutrient development. We know that corporations like Moods of Norway have said that if it wasn't for these very means that they got – that someone was crazy enough to bet on us, as one of them says, when they came up with a slightly high-flying idea – maybe they didn't have companies there today. I hear that someone wants to use these funds for transportation. Then it is good to know that we have a government that invests in both culture and regional development. We don't cut, as the right-wing government did when they put in power, and they clearly want to do if they get power again. They didn't add to the budget at that time, it's the red-green government that has done. The same can be said about the Progress Party, and the challenge I received from the Progress Party about the municipal budget in my own home country. I was both a local and state politician from 2001–2005, when the Progress Party was a right-wing party. There were no gleaning days in municipalities or in the county economy during that period. There were also no gleaning days in other important sectors in a district like Sogn and Fjordane. In such a state, regional development funds mean something. In such a state, the small municipality means something for the municipal economy. The regional policy preferences that the Progress Party will remove mean a lot. In such a state, agricultural policy means a lot. The fact that one cuts billions of dollars means a lot negative for one of these states. The fact that one of the settings of different places writes – not in this one, but in others – that one should build a path where it is most economically profitable will also mean that a state like Sogn and Fjordane may not be the most blessed state with means of transport from a government where the Progress Party has an influence. This will be exciting and important issues to discuss in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1178	I record that there are few who have seen the need to make a settlement with the Advance Party's policy in the same field. It is commendable that the representative Trond Helleland has been up and made known to the Right's view. One thing is what the Right believes, and which should be the obvious thing for all the parties in the United Kingdom, namely that we must stand by our international commitments, that we must not only defend our indigenous people, but also strengthen both language and culture in the future, but it is crucial whether this is a basis for negotiation or not. As we all know, each party runs its own battles. I do not imagine that the Progress Party automatically says: OK, when the Right believes it, we give up that matter. What I need to clarify – we can take it either here or on a later occasion – is whether it is time to negotiate this. Should we go into a phase in which the accession of the Progress Party will decide whether there will be negotiations around our fundamental international commitments – the one that really is a co-aggression, minus the Progress Party, has agreed – or will it be rejected that there is at all something you are willing to discuss? That's what matters. That's why it's regrettable that one only bothers to point to one's own policies, and not abilities, from any bourgeois party, to distance oneself from that policy and reject that it's at all a discussion one's willing to enter into.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1183	It is a bit encouraging to hear the Minister of State give such a picture of the policies of the opposition parties. We can discuss different solutions to different challenges, but at least we should be able to express what the counterparty thinks before criticising them. The Progress Party's alternative state budget is committed to improving the local economy, compared to the government's approach. We're strengthening the municipalities. We cut the county council – and it's about us wanting to put down the county councils – but for Kommune-Norge it's going to be a total improvement. What we're also doing, which is completely incomprehensible that the government doesn't support, is making sure that the municipalities can get better loan terms. Today, when the government borrows money, it borrows at a much better rate than when the municipalities borrow money. It's a little bit about what kind of code The size and government has put up about how to calculate risk. In Sweden and Denmark, municipalities receive loans under the same conditions as the State, but not in Norway. If you had done as the Progress Party said, it could cut the interest expense for Municipality-Norway by between 0.5 billion. kr and 3 brd. NOK, a little depending on how much better the conditions were. So it's something that didn't cost a penny on the state budget, but it would have meant that these "treasures" capitalists, as an SV probably had referred to them, would get less return when they borrow money to Norwegian municipalities. This is a completely free proposal that the government can implement only if they actually want to improve the local economy. So for transportation: the Progress Party has a significant increase in the bet on traffic compared to the government and compared to the Center Party. We strengthen maintenance, road safety and race protection compared to the government budget. It benefits the whole country, including Sogn and Fjordane. We have investment companies for road and investment companies for the railways that I guess next year will be able to invest 5 billion. kr more than the government proposes to build new roads. For example, a ferry-free E 39 between Kristiansand and Trondheim will also benefit Sogn and Fjordane – since the municipal minister was particularly concerned about the county. But it will also benefit the metropolitan regions – you get rid of queues, you can get traffic away from the center and rather get it around the cities. This is totally very reasonable. It's a little strange that the government then tries to ignore this, but rather looks at other things. In fact, the policy of the Progress Party would provide a better transport solution for District Norway. It would improve the competitive conditions of business, and it would improve the job and labour market for many. Then I think we should be satisfied with that. So, of course, the Center Party can say that there's too much money going into the road sector. It doesn't seem like the Progress Party. But when you give the impression that this is not good for District Norway, at least it is completely wrong. For a District Norway that wants better transport infrastructure, it is the Progress Party that delivers the good solutions, not the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1200	The representative, Michael Tetzschner, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1203	The rapporteurs of the country are aware of the expression of the representative Lise Christoffersen. The Labour Party believes that the situation is now such that our municipal politicians bathe in money. I don't think they'll recognize that. If you have so much money, I would think that the municipal councils of the workers' party will eventually fill the basins in which they once opted to sort things out. Our alternative arrangement includes a strengthening of the road sector, and there we know that the government has previously transferred a large maintenance kit to the counties. There are large investments that need to be made. It reminds me that we have not been given a detailed explanation of whether the government has a policy to prevent the roads and installations of the municipalities and the public sector from falling due to the way in which we have budgeted – and also the economic structure of the municipal sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1210	It was suggested that the municipal minister was particularly busy with his home country. I was particularly challenged at home in the middle of the representative Åge Starheim. That's why it was the theme of my article. It is claimed that the Progress Party delivers. No, the Progress Party does not deliver anything – unrecognizable words. The progress party could have delivered in the period 2001-2005, but then only a few cents moved when a negotiated budget with the right-hand government. It is not particularly promising if anyone believes that the Progress Party in the Right Government, which has stated explicitly that they will adhere to the rule of action, must begin to give priority to road, local economy and all other good purposes – such as the justice sector and what else has. The progress party still has the potential to have more money than most — at most. So far, the Progress Party has not delivered where they could have done so, and whether they will do so if they come to government is also uncertain today. This government has delivered. We delivered a growth of 45 pst. in the national transport plan, and when we presented the budget in the autumn, we inform ourselves that we have started all the projects that it is possible to start – i.e. that it is planned and ready for launch. There are many major challenges in the transport sector. I know that as a former Minister of Transport. And it wasn't that way that one came to the table. There was not even a planned project that could be started when we came up with money and wanted to do it. It was the legacy after a time when the Progress Party could actually have had an impact on the policy on trade. Too many states in this country that are not of the most central, no mention and no forget, I think a will notice great differences if there is a government change. That's the job we're going to do until the election day in 2013, just to see what this government means, what direction we want to go further, and what's at stake, not only in District Norway, but also in the big cities, so that everyone can have equal opportunities for good development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1225	It's always interesting when the red-greens try to brag their bet by comparing the year's appropriations with the allocation proposals that came, for example. in 2004. Then you no longer compare the relevant sums, but you compare the budget that has a cost page with nearly 500 billion. the difference in kr. It should just be lacking if the red-green government does not nominally grant more for all good purposes when it has 500 billion. kr more to distribute. What is relevant to compare is how the different batches prioritise within the same year’s budget. Then it is seen that the Progress Party prioritises transport issues that are important for District Norway, much higher than what this government is doing. We did the same in 2003, 2004 and 2005. Then you can compare this to how the other opposition parties have prioritised, and how the red-green parties prioritized when they were in opposition. Did they give priority to transport more or less than the Progress Party? The Labour Party cooperated with the Bondevik II Government three out of eight – if you count with the revised budgets. None of the budgetary cooperation was prioritised. In 2004, which was the year of the main budget cooperation, the Workers' Party did not add one additional crown. They didn't even have it inside their alternative state budget. To give the impression that the red-greens have got things that the Bondevik government should have done, when not even the main partner of the current government added one penny to it, it is not credible. What does today's government have to boast of today? We are very pleased that it grants more money to road and rail than it did in 2005, but the budget's expenditure page for next year therefore has 404 billion. kr more. Then the question is, is there so much to brag about that you grant 6 billion? kr more than in 2005, when the expenditure side has grown by 404 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? Is there so much to brag about that one in eight years has totaled 27 billion. kr more to road investments than the level of Bondevik government provided? I'm sure the Bondevik government had also increased the appropriations from its 2005 level. Is there so much to brag about that you've been able to find 27 billion? DKK in total of eight years, when more than 3000 billion have been saved in the same eight-year period. kr in the oil fund? That's where the perspectives come in, because you have to look at what you've had to prioritize. The Progress Party will remind you that while the government in the current budget proposes a total of 18 billion. kr for railway and road investment, only oil investment next year will increase by 27 billion. kr, compared to this year. Only the growth in oil investment is 50 pst. higher than the total road and rail investments next year. It shows that what the government boasts about is not a change of pace, you just spread thinly beyond the increase in expenditure that you have for all purposes. It's not about prioritizing, it's about benefiting from the oil industry, but I can promise that a blue government will give far higher priority to transport than today's government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1234	The President allows himself to make a kind remark that we have a long day and a long evening ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1237	I'm going to follow it, but when the representative tries to misunderstand that he claims I'm comparing nominal numbers, it gets too stupid, and it can't be left as the last word. I'm obviously not comparing nominal numbers, I'm comparing what's been of growth. The fact that the Labour Party did not prioritize a crown in 2004, must mean that the Centre Party has such an impact on this government, because it has been a strong growth on the road. The spring of 2005 starts with a 22-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. on the National Transport Plan of the Bondevik Government, a continuation of its implementation in the annual budgets, provided a new budget of 100 billion. kr in growth, and continue to follow it up during We are now developing a new national transport plan to be submitted to spring. Of course, the important thing isn't the growth in the nominal heads, because he's been big, and I don't think he had been so big without the constellation that's now been, and that's had power. What's important is the trust when it comes to the priorities of those who claim to have many billions to spend and deposit. At least it's not history that gives those parties trust, because that history doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1245	I was just going to show that the government council is wrong. History shows that the Progress Party has granted more to the road and rail in the years we have entered into budgetary settlements than the Workers' Party. The SSB has reviewed our alternative state budget. They say that the 2013 policy of the Progress Party will result in higher GDP, lower inflation and lower unemployment. Then the Progress Party thinks it makes sense if we rather take some of the oil money we could use within the action rule, and invested in more road, more rail, more research and in better framework conditions for business both in the cities and in the districts, rather than doing what the government does. What the government is doing is borrowing our oil wealth – among other things. to Denmark – for 1 pst. interest, force drivers in cities in districts to borrow money abroad to build toll projects in Norway and to pay an average of 2.5 pst. interest on the money borrowed. So we're going to borrow our property to 1 pst. interest rate and loan it back to 2,5 pst. interest rate. It is not a responsible economic policy, and therefore the Progress Party is needed in government, so that we can start investing in this country and building it, instead of lending it to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1250	Several have not asked for the word in Part I. We are moving to Part II of the budget heading of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. These are the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1255	There are several possible approaches to a debate on immigration and integration. Even I want to start from what I think was a well-written comment article in VG yesterday, with the title ‘An ageing Europe is struggling’, starting with quoting the indent: ‘The leaders of good old Europe today receive the Nobel Peace Prize. But age weighs, and with fewer active people Europe will lose in competition with the new world.’ Then there are a number of rather gloomy prospects, based on trends we already see: declining birth rates and increasing numbers of people working per pensioner. By 2050, one in three Europeans will be over 60 years old, and the average age will continue to increase. This leads to increasing challenges in financing the welfare country. In addition, more and more people will need care and care, while relatively fewer will be available to carry out the work. And as the article writer points out: ‘Even though we sometimes get a different impression, immigration into Europe is not high, at least as compared to countries such as the United States, Canada and Australia.’ In this perspective, immigration is a good one, as then Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen stressed when presenting his first own State budget in October 2006. Thousands of new kindergartens were to be built, roads and tracks were to be given a lift. It wasn't the money it was on, it was the labour force. «Polakes save the government's promises», she should have said, a little pointed, but true. Immigrants in Norway come from 291 countries and autonomous regions. By comparison, there are 193 member countries of the United Nations. Today it is approx. 655,000 people with a migrant background residing in Norway. Most people have migrated themselves. Of these, 108 000 were born in Norway with two immigrant parents. The largest groups come from Poland, Sweden, Germany and Lithuania. Immigrants make up a little over 13 pst. of the population and approx. 12 pst. of the total employment in Norway. It says a little about the importance of immigration in meeting our labour needs. The fact that 21 pst of all new start-ups in 2011 were established by immigrants is also part of this picture. Immigrants come largely from EU and EEA territory. Of a total net migration of 47,000 last year, more than half were migrant workers from outside the Nordic region. With regard to immigration from countries outside the EU, public debate often gives us the impression that most of them are asylum seekers, but that is not the case. Family immigration is the second most important cause of immigration to Norway. Marriage goals and partnerships are established across borders in a globalised world. 12 900 new family immigration permits were granted last year, while 4 000 were allowed to stay on application for asylum. The government's objective of a socially decent and managed immigration and a humane, solidarity and legal security policy on asylum and refugee, based on our commitments under international conventions and agreements, has broad support for the population and as well as cross-political support in the Storting. In a relatively short time, Norway has become a more diverse and multicultural society than we have ever been. Most people think that's positive. But not all: the Progress Party more than clearly demonstrates through its comments and cutbacks that immigration in their eyes is negative, especially when immigrants come from outside Europe. It doesn't matter whether these are people in need of protection under international law. Norwegian immigration and asylum policies are too liberal for the Progress Party; together they cut more than 725 million. kr in the budgets of the non-resident authorities. That's the happy madness! Through the government’s many additions and various measures to speed up asylum procedures and faster and more returns – preferably voluntary, but also coercive – we begin slowly but surely to get our heads over water and get down to the residue. UDI is dealing with more issues than they get in, we're still waiting for similar effects in UNE, but they're coming. Cut as proposed by the Progress Party will immediately lead to chaos in the foreign administration and be completely irresponsible. The alternative of the Progress Party is apparently to help people where they are, but that's just words. When the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget was discussed last week, the Progress Party proposed to cut aid by a total of 7 billion. kr, mostly in Africa and the Middle East. Fortunately, no one else supports such a policy. The Left and Christian People's Party believes that the government's immigration policy is too strict, not to mention that it is concrete in particular in many proposals for increases in the budget. In both numbers and words, the right is roughly in line with the majority. So if I were to sum up the opposition's opinion on the majority immigration policy in a few words, it had to be something like: positive, negative, too liberal, too strict, too careful. When the opposition now says they're getting together for a clearer alternative before next year's elections, there's probably still a lot going on in the immigration field. But immigration is not just about entering Norway. People who come to Norway will live, have friends, work, go to school, participate in leisure activities and social life. Most people are doing really well. Norway has achieved better integration than most other countries. It's enough to cross the border with Sweden. New research from there, as reported in Aftonbladet, shows that among immigrants who have lived in Sweden for up to ten years, 23pst. by men and 27 pst. by women unemployed. It is the second worst in Europe. Norway is at the opposite end of the scale — not the best, but among the best. That doesn't mean we're going to settle down on it; we still have a way to go. The goal is a society with no social differences following ethnic dividing lines, and we're not quite there. Immigrants are overrepresented among children’s families with persistently low incomes. Immigrants have major health problems. Unemployment is low but higher than that of the rest of the population. Employment among family reunifications, where the majority are women, is lower than among migrant workers. However, employment is increasing with increasing living time, but not for all. Fafo shows, among other things: That only 30 pst. of Pakistani women who came to Norway before 1990 are in work. We're struggling to get the refugees settled quickly enough, and it's collapsing in reception. We can only imagine how discouraging it must be for the individual, and it seems to be inhibiting integration. When about 3,500 people are now stuck in reception, there is an unworthy and unacceptable situation. The rapid settlement of refugees is what must lay the basis for an active life in a secure environment. The right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme and the right and duty to be trained in Norwegian and social knowledge are one of the most fundamental elements of integration policy for those who migrate to Norway at an adult age. But that's not enough for everyone. ‘New chance’ has been a programme for those who were far from working life and the qualification programme as well. The latter is an example of how universal welfare schemes can be designed in a way that enables everyone to make use of them. Sometimes, however, additional targeting is needed, and from next year, ‘new chance’ is transformed into ‘job opportunities’, more than double the allocation, and the programme is directed even more towards women who need special follow-up to enter the labour market. It is important for women themselves, and it may also prove to be one of the most important measures to combat poverty in general and child poverty in particular. Children with an immigrant background do not need cash support, but kindergarten. Trials of free working life in kindergarten in areas with a high proportion of immigrants are continuing and results are gradually emerging. The proportion of children in kindergarten is increasing, and we know that children who have gone to kindergarten are better rusted when they start school. The language is alpha and omega, and there really doesn't need any further deepening. In terms of integration policy, too, there is broad, cross-political consensus — once again with the exception of the Progress Party. Right plus the integration grant itself to the municipalities. It doesn't do the Christian People's Party. Both add slightly in terms of voluntary activities and grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adults, the Christian People's Party a little more than the Right, but the Advance Party is therefore in a special position. They are doing just as much work in this area as in the immigration field – a new 700 million. To be ironed with a hard hand. With the Advancement Party cut a total of $1.4 billion. kr in the field of immigration and integration. The party of progress really wants to expel us from the world. Instead of a policy on immigration and asylum that maintains high international standards, we would, with the open-minded policies of the Progress Party, break all international obligations to protect people in distress. Instead, those who arrive at closed reception — another breach of international law — and those who still have to find their way into it cannot expect particularly active integration measures. That money will have been removed from the budget for the longest time. Fortunately, all the other parties see that this is a little dangerous path. In a globalized world, this is the taper recipe. Instead, the majority support the government's efforts to renew and improve one of the world's best welfare societies. Just out of the new year, we will deal with the integration message, Meld. St. 6 for 2012–2013 on a comprehensive integration policy, diversity and community. It shall provide the basis for an even better integration policy, with even better results than hitherto.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1295	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1298	Most of those who come to Norway and seek asylum end up in an asylum facility. Whether this is reception where there are several, or whether it is decentralised, plays no role, but in reception they are ported. It is also a fact that many disappear from these receptions, so my question to the representative is: Where does the representative believe these ends up, what do they live by, and what will the Workers' Party do to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1303	It's right, as the representative Ørsal Johansen says, that some people disappear from reception every year. We don't know exactly how many there are, we don't know exactly where they're going to be. Some people are certainly illegal in Norway; some may have travelled abroad, but these are figures that are very difficult to get an overview of. What we've said is that when children disappear from reception, we're going to try to track them down as best they can. But as I said, we don't have any certain numbers, we just know that it happens – someone's probably illegal in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1308	It was a big day for many of us yesterday. We went on a torch and celebrated that the European Union had received the peace prize. The EU has also provided Norway with new opportunities for acquiring skills and labour, and we now see that labour migration to Norway is record high. In several debates, we have raised questions about the unfairness of, for example: Polish or other Eastern European workers who lose their jobs and become unemployed cannot attend Norwegian courses while unemployed to increase their skills, except in a few counties where Nav has arranged this. Now we have the integration message for treatment, and that's the last chance to fix this relationship. Does the representative Christoffersen agree that unemployed workers should be able to receive Norwegian courses without losing their daily allowance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1315	Now there was a question to the representative of Christoffersen, and then the representative of Christoffersen can answer that she really thinks it should be more than that. The Labour Party adopted at its country meeting in 2011 an integration policy document in which we felt that migrant workers, whether at work or temporarily out of work, should have that access. Then we have a Soria Moria statement that we're going to fulfill, we have a certain amount of money. We're not there now, but as the representative of Helleland himself was inside, no Norwegian course is given except where Nav has arranged for it. Maybe Nav could take more advantage of that opportunity, and it might be possible to give a signal that it is smart to do, because there are opportunities within today's welfare systems, too, with individual adaptation. Language is something that immigrants who are unemployed absolutely need to reenter the labour market. So I don't think we're so very disagreeable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1320	I am very pleased that Lise Christoffersen spent so much time talking about an important topic: integration and integration policy. The working party is very concerned about following the work line, and it is not difficult to agree with that. The fact that people get into work is also an important prerequisite for tackling the problem of poverty. But we see that a challenge we have in Norway is that it is not that easy to get into the labour market. Just by having a different name, you may not even be at risk of getting called up for an interview, even if you have the same competence and are as qualified as many of the other applicants. This is done very little by the authorities. What is the solution of the representative Lise Christoffersen to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1327	There is a trial under the direction of the Ministry of Renewal, which has now been extended, with moderate quotas for immigrants for jobs in some states. It's a measure that I support 100 pst. We have had a discussion going on in a Facebook thread now, on the basis of a look-up in – it was well – the evening post, about three great immigrant girls who felt that it might be a bit devalued with quota, and at any rate we did not use such measures. I totally disagree. I've myself gone with a 'button' on the jacket where it said'sex-quoted and proud of it', and I think it takes a lot of radical action to get up the volume and more generally that immigrants with foreign names do a very good job and perhaps in some situations also a better job in many functions of society. Looks like there was time out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1334	Then the line chord shift is also changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1338	The Progress Party is pleased that we can sometimes have an open and evidence-based immigration debate, but now it is such that facts should be objective, but can be very subjective based on how you choose to interpret them. It's always like that, and it'll always be like that. The progress party will have closed reception in Norway, and the representative Lise Christoffersen was in on that theme and thought it was inhumane and not in line with international law. Now there are several countries that have closed reception and are very satisfied with it, and that have not had any challenges or problems with it under international law. When I asked the representative Lise Christoffersen how many people were away from reception in Norway, where they are, what they are doing to feed themselves and what should be done, the representative was not very willing to give any concrete answer to it, either because the representative did not know it or because it is simply not possible to get an answer. How many people stay away, we don't know. Where they are – no, we don't know either. We don't know what they're doing either. But one thing is certain. If they are in Norway, they do not at least live on a job where they are employed in a company, or run for themselves and pay taxes and Norwegian taxes. There's no doubt about it. They feed on completely different ways, which we prefer not to have in particular in Norway. What's to do with that? The Progress Party has a solution. It is possible to establish closed receptions. First of all, it prevents escape. Secondly, we have control of where they are. It is also important that, while they are in closed reception, we find out who we have got to Norway. We have no guarantee of that, and we don't know anything about those people that, among other things, comes without papers or with false papers. It also surprises me a little bit. There are many who come to Norway with e.g. Fake pass. According to the law, having a false passport is in itself a criminal offence. There is immediate unconditional imprisonment for 45 days in order to have a false passport. Nevertheless, we allow them to apply for asylum, we process the application, and they can even stay when they come here with a false passport, which in itself is punishable. The Progress Party believes that false passports are being brought here, with false papers, then there is something to hide, and you should not get a residence permit in Norway. Norway is no longer the country it once was – for good and for bad. Unlucky aspects of development are less freedom and that we have to be careful with what we say, less security and a public sector that costs more than ever. At the same time, action and enforcement seem less than ever. Roads for the past are being built, as testified by the new route that these days open in the valley of South Gudbrand. We may be able to live on some obsolete roads, but we cannot live on an immigration that has reached such a scale that it threatens the welfare state and all the welfare goods that the Nordics today take as a matter of course. Immigration is simply not economically sustainable. This was pointed out by the Freshhouse in 2011 and confirmed by the Brochmann Committee in a report that same year. It was said that with continued high immigration, today’s trust-based welfare state would soon be history. Immigrants come to Norway in large numbers. Percentage of immigration to Norway has increased more than in any other country, according to an OECD report. For immigration in relation to the population, only Switzerland is located in front of Norway. We in the Progress Party too realise that Norway needs immigrants, and we also realize that there are some people who need protection. But we pause a bit when we read in a report that two out of three immigrants are on social security. It turns out that after about ten years of working life, there is a marked dropout. People who research often find it reassuring to control findings against other information. Oslo is the largest city in Norway, both in absolute and relative terms. Therefore, it is rather daunting to see that in the period from 2000 to 2010, Oslo has had the weakest growth per capita in terms of tax collected. From 2002 to 2011, almost 110 000 asylum seekers arrived in Norway. It was claimed that Norway has a strict asylum policy, so it would be thought that many were sent back to their home country or to the country they came through. But that's not right. The number of voluntary returns by UDI was in the same period of approx. Nine thousand. In addition, some were also returned by the Foreign Affairs Department of the police. There's something more uncertain about that, but it's about about that. 1 000 persons per year, i.e. an estimated over 9 000 over a nine-year period. So while about 110 000 have arrived, 18 000 more or less have left us voluntarily. The difference is approx. Ninety thousand. These are people who will have to be cared for in the long term by Norwegian taxpayers. In addition, Immigrants come, and it is not certain that all these jobs until they have reached their normal retirement age. Then we have all the family reunions, which the representative Christoffersen was also in, which will also in many ways gradually burden the public budgets. In the 2013 state budget, approximately One-third, or 370 billion. NOK, intended to pay people who do not work. Then I wonder where this is going to end. I do not know, but I know that the Progress Party stands for a responsible immigration policy and has done so every year. The government has not really brought any news in its proposal for a government budget. They pursue an immigration and integration policy with which most people are not satisfied. The result is segregation and exclusion. It was with some satisfaction that I registered that the government council Thorkildsen, when she was interviewed by P4 the other day, said that she feared that there would be alien communities in Oslo. I think those extraterrestrials are already formed. We know that there are closed communities in Oslo that don't have much to do with the outside world, where a non-Norwegian chatterer, and where a person lives by his own rules. It is commendable that the Council of State sees that one can fear it, that the Council of State sees that this can be a challenge, and I am delighted to see what the Council of State wants to do with that challenge. The government adds to a policy where a continuation of measures that do not work, the government maintains a large state enterprise, the government continues a policy that allows tens of thousands of people to stay illegally in Norway, and the government continues an integration policy where municipalities receive far less money to integrate refugees than it actually costs. This is one of the challenges facing the representative Christoffersen. There are many people in reception waiting to get into the municipalities – and then we wonder why! Many municipalities refuse to accept refugees who have been legally resident in Norway because they know it costs. When they already have tight economies and budgets that don't go up, it's not all right to take on new expenditure that you know you're not getting covered by the Norwegian state – even if it's the Norwegian state that tells them to accept people. By increasing the integration grant, it might be possible for a number of municipalities to take up, settle and integrate more immigrants in a good way. We know that many municipalities do a great job of integration, while other municipalities aren't really that good. That's something we have to fix, and I think the economy has a part to do with this. The government parties accuse the Advance Party of cutting off all money for indigenous peoples and national history. The Progress Party believes that all people are created and born alike, and that they are designing specific measures, such as: The merger, the Samian language management area and the Finnmark property are counterproductive. The Progress Party will not have a Norway with conflicts that create cultural, linguistic and ethnic divides. We're about to get that. At the same time, a focus on what should be important – to protect the foremost cultural bearer of them all, namely the language. The government here continues a policy that has not led to more use of Sami languages, but to less use. They themselves document that in their budget proposals. The government is more concerned with providing money to a minority administration than with following the first of the aims of the law, namely to secure and develop the Sami languages. Neither will the government parties know how many people are using Sami in Norway, despite the fact that international organisations such as the Council of Europe and UNESCO are loudly criticising Norway for not following up their international commitments. Now it is high time we had a review of the policy instruments used in common and minority policy, because several of our minority languages are dying out. The approach of the Progress Party is that we need to figure out how many people speak the different languages in Norway, so that we can protect minority languages and develop them. Running an expensive symbol policy, as the government parties do, doesn't work. The government parties are unable to rethink common policies and have doubts about the same instruments, regardless of whether the Sami languages die out in northern Sami, lulesamian and southern Sami. Umesamic, pitesamic and scholesamic are already extinct in Norway. Then my question is, When will the government wake up? Let there be no doubt: the party of progress will merge well. They're part of Norwegian society. Nordics and Sami have worked together through centuries through trade and exchange, through family and rural life. But there have been conflicts, and the Norwegian society has treated together in a very little pleasant way. We don't want to get together, as one did in the 1970s. The Progress Party shall refrain from giving Sami to Sami or from maintaining and further developing its culture and traditions. I think everyone in this Chamber will agree on that, but that is the means we are discussing. I believe that the instruments do not work as they were supposed to work. I believe we have an obligation to charge this, without being met with unprofessional claims of cold and impersonal attitudes because we do not want to spend as much money as the others, or enter into consensus on a failing basis. The representative Stokkan-Grande had a tiger against the Progress Party. I have the following questions to the representative Stokkan-Grande: Who was responsible for the research process? Was it the Progress Party that refused to speak Sami in Norway? Was it the Progress Party that, through generations, made life sour for togetherness in Norway? It was the Workers' Party that held responsibility and power and carried out – well assisted by the other parties – a violent research process that was a violation of the Sami people. It was not the party responsible for progress, it was the Workers' Party which was.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1373	Over the last few years, the number of asylum applications in Norway has decreased. We have also managed to reduce the length of proceedings and the remainder in cases, and after the rhetoric of the Progress Party, it should be a policy in the right direction. Nevertheless, the Progress Party may not take part in any of the joint comments of the Committee in this field. It surprises us, but after hearing Ørsal Johansen's articles you don't have to be amazed at all. I understand, for such a disparaging of other people I think you should look for a long time. So to the question. In the article, Ørsal Johansen said that immigration threatens the welfare of the country. The question then is: how does it threaten your well-being and my well-being? I hope Ørsal Johansen can elaborate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1380	I am pleased that the number of asylum applications has fallen – it should be lacking. I am also pleased with parts of the policy that the government is pursuing in this area. We have a rather strict immigration policy, and the Progress Party has agreed with many of the measures that this government has taken, and the restrictions that have taken place in this area. The representative was concerned that the welfare state is under threat. I said in my speech that the more people who come to Norway, the more Norwegians and immigrants who go to social security, the bigger the challenges get the welfare state. When fewer jobs and payments are made to the single fund and more people are going to benefit from the single fund, this leads to economic challenges. It goes without saying, that's just the fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1387	Progress party people can't sleep well at night. They live in a time when they can risk meeting both immigrants and asylum-seekers – in the streets. They should have been caged in prison, according to the Progress Party. In such debates, the Progress Party is very concerned that they should be fact-based, unlike all of us. Has the Progress Party considered the research reports that have been prepared on what is going on in such receptions — what is happening to people? These people are either to be welcomed to Norway every now and then, or they are to return to their country. Research reports show, in our opinion, that many of these have very sad experiences that enable them neither to become part of our society nor to be able to return to their original societies in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1394	I can inform the representative Hagen that I sleep reasonably well at night – perhaps not the last networks, but it has completely different reasons. We're not saying we're going to cage anyone in. We want closed reception because we want those who come to Norway and do not have identity documents – those we do not know who is – to be able to control, at least until we have clarified their identity. According to people in the police's alien unit, there's a lot going on in Norway that's ticking bombs. Then we should also take that into account. The representative was concerned about what was happening in reception. I know very well what is happening in reception today. I know well how the receptions work around this country today. Where there is no closed reception, they probably have the same challenges as you can get in closed reception. What is a fact is that today there is killing, and violence is taking place – both against other residents and against employees – at the asylum recipients. But I think it can be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1405	The Progress Party would like to see a strong cut in the budgets, both in the area of the management of non-residents and in the case of reception. The reason is that they will have a completely different asylum policy, an asylum policy that will significantly weaken the need for resources. Where should this reduction be taken? Should it be taken in the field of labour immigration? Should it be taken in the field of quota refugees, or should it be taken in the field of asylum seekers? And is it that the tightening-up is going to take place completely without Norway dealing with international conventions and agreements? It was absolutely impossible not to interpret the article here today in such a way that he says that today's practice is too liberal, there are more people who stay with the justification of protection needs, etc. This is in stark contrast to what Ørsal Johansen had in the class struggle on 16 January, where he accuses the government of having too strict an immigration policy – there are too few to be, and we put children at risk because UNE does not take advantage of the beauty room. [[President clubs]] Can the representative explain this: [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1414	Representative Morten Ørsal Johansen, please. The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1419	When we set up our draft budget in the Progress Party, we take as a starting point the policies of the Progress Party and the Foreign Affairs Act of the Progress Party. We want a strict immigration policy in Norway. At the same time, we want a good integration policy, so that those legally resident in Norway due to protection needs will become part of Norwegian society – to be well integrated, well received. But that does not mean that we cannot have a strict immigration policy where we have stricter criteria for obtaining a residence permit in Norway, have strict criteria and requirements in order to come to Norway and benefit from the well-being we have here. The Progress Party wants to tighten up both asylum policy and family reunification policy, for example. by not being able to have family reunification after family reunification, which is currently possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1428	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1431	The aim of the right is that immigrants and refugees should be able to support themselves as quickly as possible, and that there is a need for improvements in integration policies, in particular those related to language training and work. Immigrants enrich both society and working life through their experience, knowledge and willingness to work, and through the ideas with which they can contribute, as a result of having a different cultural background. At the same time, the multicultural society faces challenges that need to be solved in order to realise the opportunities of each individual person. The need and opportunities for cross-border movement of persons increase as a result of increased world trade, reduced transport costs, the reduction of border barriers and closer inter-country interactions. Different cultures come into contact with each other, and ideas, knowledge and experience are exchanged faster and more comprehensively than before. Increased labour migration is an important contribution to taking these developments seriously and exploiting the potential of globalisation. It is not obvious that the competent labour force is applying to Norway. I refer here to the Right’s proposal in Document 8:150 S for 2010–2011 on measures to ensure growth-enhancing labour migration. The labour market is likely to be characterised by increasing migration of workers and service providers over the years to come, but also by increased competition for labour between countries. Having a conscious and comprehensive policy that ensures sustainable labour migration is one of the greatest political challenges we will face in the years ahead. Knowledge and competence, together with diversity in the workforce, are crucial for innovation and industrial development in an increasingly competitive and international labour and business. In order to maintain the current level of well-being and ensure value creation through a living knowledge-based economy, Norway needs to pursue a policy that enables us to compete internationally for the competent labour force. Prior to the financial crisis, workers from other countries with the necessary labour force in Norway contributed, inter alia: construction and repair industries and in several service industries. Without this extra available workforce, growth in the Norwegian economy would have slowed down, and District Norway would have faced major challenges. At the same time, more and more of these immigrants have taken root in Norway, and families have moved after. Then it is important that an opportunity is given to learn the language properly, either through work or through course. Language training is currently both a right and an obligation for a number of immigrants. This should also be a right for unemployed immigrants from EEA countries who are in Norway – unemployment should not exclude one from language training. Such training will provide job-seekers with additional qualifications and may help them to enter the labour market more quickly if they fall outside. It is therefore important to use the first phase after arrival in Norway for increased language and social education and inclusion in working life. It is important that measures for increased integration target women and children in particular. Right wants to strengthen the introduction work. In the 2013 state budget, we propose inter alia: providing participants in introduction courses with children of kindergarten age with free nursery facilities, extending the offer of language mapping for all four-year-olds and strengthening the integration work of voluntary organisations. It is important to facilitate the inclusion of the introduction system for newly arrived immigrants and refugees into the whole family. Basic Norwegian skills are very important for the success of children in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we capture all children with language problems at an earlier date than today. The language-monitoring system, which has been implemented in some municipalities in the country, includes not only children with a minority background but also children with language difficulties. Right wants the scheme to become nationwide and to develop it in line with the knowledge gained as a result of the evaluation carried out. It is important to facilitate the inclusion of the introduction system for newly arrived immigrants and refugees into the whole family. Free childcare facilities for this group when attending an introduction course are an important point in this context. Several non-governmental organisations carry out important integration work through already established institutions and actions. In the past, for example, the Red Cross has: had to reject several participants at their events. Such voluntary offers need to be strengthened, and we have therefore strengthened this entry in our alternative budget. Nevertheless, the municipalities have the primary responsibility for the introduction work. Therefore, municipalities must continue to receive grants for municipal introduction measures. There is a need to develop an alternative approach to today’s reception policy and a new model for the operation of asylum recipients that can contribute to greater competence in the field of education and training. Therefore, the right considers it relevant in this context to develop its own competence recipients, located in different parts of the country, which may specialise in different areas of the field, such as: return problems, screening, single, minor asylum seekers, qualification, etc. The government is defensive in labour immigration and integration policy. On several occasions, extensive proposals have been made both for growth-promoting labour migration and for improving the integration of newly arrived immigrants who are to live their lives in Norway. The government parties exceptionally join our proposals and choose to wait until they are promoted by the government. Unnecessary time and resources are thus wasted on those to stay in Norway and on the Norwegian community as a whole. Norway experiences record labour migration, and there is no reason to believe that this will slow down in the coming years. There is therefore an urgent need for a more comprehensive policy for this group, which helps to increase value creation across Norway. After Christmas, the Committee shall begin the examination of the notification of integration. Then we have the opportunity to raise this important issue higher on the political agenda. Several times we have raised questions about, among other things. unemployed migrant workers and their right to Norwegian training. We get positive answers. We got it from the State Council Lighthouse when he was in charge of the field. I received it recently from the representative Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, but nothing has happened. Nor can I see that there is a clear response to this in the integration message, but we will have the opportunity to develop it when we pass the New Year's Eve. I hope that the new Council of State in this area will also take a positive view of this opportunity to improve the skills of those who have come to Norway to work. Then I want to mention an important measure in my home municipality, the international city of Drammen, the Norwegian multicultural value creation centre. It is an offer for immigrants who want to start their own business, and who have made very good results with the small funds they have, but who have become a caste ball between different departments, and who are still being dominated, by the fact that there is no lasting support for this action. This is an action that precisely does what we all want to do, namely to ensure that innovative immigrants have the opportunity to develop new concepts, businesses and opportunities in their new home country. I hope once again that we now, with a large majority in the committee, including the government parties, stress the need to take better care of and provide better opportunities for this center, and that it is now being followed up, and that they are not once again, another year becoming a caste ball between different departments. This type of action is positive and helps to give immigrants with good ideas the opportunity to enter the business market in Norway and the opportunity to create jobs. If there's anything we want, there are immigrants who contribute, who can Norwegian, who contribute to the creation of wealth and who participate too fully in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1473	The representative of Trond Helleland is concerned with labour immigration and sees it as positive. That's where we agree. At the same time, we know that in some industries there are more than doubtful conditions in terms of pay, health, environment and safety. There are two questions that result from this: Why are the Right against many of the key actions of the Action Plans against social dumping; solidarity, transparency, regional protection and safeguarding the pay and working conditions of people working on behalf of the public sector? The other question that follows equally naturally is: Would it not also have been, from the Right's point of view, an advantage for Norwegian, serious companies if they had not competed with employers who have unfair pay and employment conditions in their enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1480	I fully agree that there will be an advantage to the fact that there are clean conditions in the labour market, but it has not been said that everything should be done on the premises of the LO, and that is often the subject of the debate. The right is against social dumping, and we want an orderly working life. The right does not want there to be a two-part working life in Norway, where immigrants are severely underpaid and exploited, and Norwegians who have waged tariffs. But not all challenges can be solved by giving the trade union movement the opportunity to control this fully. We want a balanced development, in which we ensure that there is cleanliness in the work environment law and in the law that is to regulate working life. I think we agree on the goal; it should be tidy, but we disagree a little bit about the means.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1485	First, it did so well to get an offensive and optimistic post, in sharp contrast to the post we got from the Progress Party instead. I have two questions, and one is a continuation of the question asked by Lise Christoffersen. Does the answer from the Right mean that we can be absolutely sure that the Right will have a working life where there is no difference, in any way, to the rights of a worker whether he is an immigrant or a Norwegian worker, and that what is now the standard in Norwegian working life is not to be undermined in any way or in practice threatened by a change in work migration? That's the one. The second is a proposal that the Right in a surprising way is involved with the Progress Party here today, namely that the Right also wants to link the return with assistance. It surprises me that the Right will make such a connection. Can the right justify it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1496	The last surprise is that Aksel Hagen has been surprised because this is well-known policy from the Right, both here in the Chamber and in the Committee. We have said that in the case of countries for which Norway provides assistance and which refuse to accept their own citizens, if appropriate, in the form of return agreements, we should consider aid measures. One such example was Ethiopia. An agreement has now been put in place, but it would be strange if Norway could not also make any demands when we send millions in aid, while this country refuses to accept its own citizens. I think it is quite reasonable to make those demands. With regard to labour policy, I refer you to the answer I gave to Lise Christoffersen. There are laws and regulations in Norway that need to ensure that we have decent treatment of all workers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1503	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1506	‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party...’. This is a phrase that goes back many places in this setting. It shows that the Progress Party is still something separate and represents attitudes and values that are fortunately all alone in this Chamber. For us in SV, however, there is something practical with all the different remarks where the Progress Party is solely behind this wording. Then we SV know that these are points that we in SV are particularly concerned about, and that we will often go in the opposite direction. There are points that show activities that are very important that are there, and that we want to process and strengthen further in the future. Where the Progress Party wants budget chapters and items drawn in cold right-hand direction, we want to drag them in warm left-hand direction. There is something about the Progress Party, because as soon as it appears in texts, the concepts such as ‘asyl seeker’, ‘refugees’, ‘district policy’, ‘agriculture’ and ‘government’ are introduced. In this area, it is also made clear that people who are on the run, yes, they are well on the run, but they are to flee to countries other than Norway. If they enter, they shall enter the closed reception as soon as possible. They don't have to be too good there, because then there are rumors that make more come to us. And as I said, while all this happens, you have to make sure that it doesn't get too good to be there, because then the rumors go. What happens at reception, what kind of consequences it gets to sit there for two, three, four and five years and wait for a final decision, the Progress Party cares little about. Both research and common sense show that there are two important qualities that must be present for a society to be good, modern, forward-looking, economic, democratic, social and sustainable – which really makes us proud to have developed a society that will be sustainable. One is that there are small differences in society, and the other is that everyone is connected somehow. It is precisely for this reason that immigration and, in particular, inclusion policies are so important. The articles from both the Working Party and the Right have shown it in a very good way today. That is why money is well spent – the money we just spend in the field of immigration and inclusion – into our community building project. That's why I'm happy and proud, and not like the Advancement Party, provoked by the need to cut. On the contrary, we have to bet even harder after each bet. We're going to give more money to, for example. free core time in kindergartens, because we see that there are several immigrant children in kindergartens where we offer free core time. We then see that by having both free core time and removing the cash support, we make sure that more people come to the nursery and get the good experience and that several of the parents – and then we don't least talk about the mothers – get out of work. Both those who get out of work and those kids who are in kindergarten then get language and social education, which is so important that they become a part of our society. I'm so proud and happy when I see that we're putting in place the Jobsjanse project, which is so popular, and which is going to work so well, to get more out of work. I'm so happy when I see what we're doing in the language field, and we're sending out signals that we're going to bet even more on this. I think it is great that the Right is not satisfied here and that we should already have invested more strongly. I am so glad to see that we are doing a lot in the residential area, not least that rentals are becoming important to our new countrymen and not least to migrant workers. I'm so glad that we're still focusing heavily on the same issues and everything that Sameness does, all the great activity they have, and so on. This is precisely what characterizes modern social development. It's a shame the Progress Party doesn't want to be on that team.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1528	The government says it has a strict immigration policy, one of the most stringent in Europe. I'm adding that the government says it. In Norway, immigration policy has also been tightened. Then is my question to the representative Aksel Hagen: Is the Socialist Left Party comfortable being part of a government that has such a strict immigration policy as Norway has?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1533	I feel very comfortable being in government with the Center Party and the Workers' Party. In some areas, we disagree. This is one of those areas. When we hear what has been said in the debate today by representatives of what the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen dreams of becoming a future government, about the financing of the municipal sector and, not least, about immigration policy, the gap between us internally in the red-green government is very little compared to the gap I hear is there when comparing the contributions of the representative Ørsal Johansen and Trond Helleland on immigration and asylum issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1538	It is good to hear that SV is happy to sit in a government that has a strict immigration policy. Then it won't be such a big challenge for the representative when the Progress Party comes into government and tightens up a little more. The government has concluded a return agreement with Somalia. Return agreements have been discussed and sometimes mentioned in this debate. Since that agreement entered into force, Norway has not returned any to Somalia. Is the representative Hagen satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1551	First of all, I don't know if there's any sense in answering, because it was clear that Morten Ørsal Johansen didn't hear what I answered the previous question. With regard to the return agreement to Somalia, I'm not up-to-date with that situation. I assume that when they are not returned, it is simply because the situation there is so that they cannot and should not be returned at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1558	SV has gone to war against the cash support to force more women and immigrants into work. As a result, families lose both freedom of choice and time together. At the same time, we see that several of these families are being deprived of needed funds, without providing any good alternative. So the answer is that they have to get to work, but then we know that it's not that easy for a lot of these. Because of this grip for which SV has been the locomotive, some of these groups, including those we refer to as poor in Norway, have become even poorer. Is SV really proud of what they've done here?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1563	The Christian People's Party often asks wise questions. First of all, we don't want to use the term 'force out of work'. We remove an incentive that means that the kids don't get into kindergarten, and especially women don't get into work. Then it is quite right that the representative Bekkewold points out: if you remove the cash support and they do not come to work, it creates an economically difficult situation. I know you're working on just that problem, which is that you shouldn't stop the cash support until you see that you're on the payroll. So this problem has been registered, and that's what the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1570	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1573	The Centre Party will have an immigration and integration policy that focuses on human dignity and that emphasises that individuals have clear rights and obligations. All shall have equivalent opportunities and equal access to language training, schooling and work regardless of background and resources. Integration is a two-sided responsibility that concerns both the immigrant himself and the community around it, whether it be the municipality, non-governmental organisations or the neighbourhood. New citizens must themselves, on their own assumption, make a great effort to be included in society by learning the language and by participating in important common arenas such as work, organisational life and education. As far as immigration regulation is concerned, the Centre Party is concerned that we have a clear and predictable practice, so that through unclear signals we do not contribute to increasing the influx of people who do not have a basis for protection and thus do not have the right to stay in Norway. In the field of immigration and integration, there has been a good deal of positive developments in the year that has passed. In the Central Party, we have expectations that positive developments will continue in 2013. Time spent in proceedings and leftovers have decreased in the UDI, both for asylum cases and for most other types of stay. There have also been positive developments in the field of foreign affairs. The number of asylum stays fell from 2010 to 2011. At the same time, there is still considerable potential for improvement. UNE has seen an increase in the number of family immigration and expulsion cases, partly due to a lack of capacity, and partly due to an increase in the number of conversion requests. I also believe that there is a lot of good work in the government and in the administration to meet the challenges that exist in the field. In order to improve the effectiveness of the procedure, the Foreign Service has been authorised to obtain information about the applicant directly from other public bodies. Conversions from annual target positions to permanent posts in the UN are expected to lead to increased stability and efficiency among the facilitators. The EFFEKT programme has produced good results in the UDI and is expected to provide it in the UN. The concern related to the increased number of requests for conversion is also addressed through the announced follow-up of NOU 2010: 12 New appeal procedure for foreign affairs. In this context, I would also like to highlight the key messages of growth presented during the year, both in the field of immigration and integration, which will provide a good basis for further work in the coming years. I am thinking about the child-breeding message and the news of integration policy. In the latter communication, the Government proposes to submit to the hearing a proposal to introduce a requirement of passing a test of social knowledge as a condition for obtaining citizenship. This is a proposal I and the Central Party support. As from 1 September next year, compulsory final testing shall be carried out in Norwegian and social knowledge for those entitled to such training. It is desirable that those living permanently in Norway become Norwegian citizens, and it is important to note that becoming a Norwegian citizen implies an effort by the individual. Basic knowledge of history, social, economic and political conditions in Norway shows that the applicant has knowledge of the society of which he will become a part. There are also areas of integration policy where development is not at all as positive. At the turn of the year, there may be as many as 3,500 people with a residence permit in an asylum centre who are awaiting residence in a municipality. Being accommodated for a long time, even after receiving a residence permit, can be an unworthy and deterrent situation that inhibits and postpones integration. I am pleased that the government is therefore discussing with the KS a three-year cooperation agreement to contribute to faster settlement. The municipalities together have lived approx. 6 000 refugees per year in recent years. There are many, but the need is even greater. The need for housing in 2013 is over 8 000 people. Delaying practices may be part of the explanation, but the main challenge is the lack of settlement sites in municipalities in the form of suitable housing. Residency obligations for municipalities can be a simple solution, but neither provides more available housing nor competence in the municipalities concerned and is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, not a good solution. While establishing more committed cooperation with the local government sector, the government proposes to strengthen several of the Husbankan schemes in 2013 to increase access to housing. In addition, the government will exercise the right to an introduction programme for refugees who themselves find housing and/or work in a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1599	I note that the Central Party largely agrees with most of the government's immigration and integration policies. It may not have been a big bomb, since the Central Party is in government, but it stands in contrast to SV, who said clearly that if SV had been able to implement its asylum and immigration policy, there would be more to stop in Norway. I'm curious: if the Central Party had been fully impressed by its asylum and immigration policy, would it be fewer, more or as many as had been suspended in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1606	Predicting is difficult, especially about the future, one said. I believe that the level at which we are involved in asylum and immigration policy today is the right level. I think we're sending out a clear signal to the outside world about what kind of line we have in immigration policy, and I think that there are more people now being accommodated by those who come here, suggesting that most people know what it's like. It is a good sign that fewer people who do not need protection are coming, I think. I think we're at the level that the Central Party believes makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1611	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1614	I also feel the need to make a little visit to the Advance Party when we discuss immigration and integration. Having read the comments of the Progress Party, it is not very important to understand that the Progress Party uses the immigration and integration budget as its most important balancing item. It is cut in all that can remind you of an action for better integration and good preservation of those who come to Norway from war, distress and humanitarian disasters. I want to remind – not just the Progress Party, but all of us – that there are 42.5 million people on the run today. 60 pst. of which they are fleeing from their own country of origin. It is not the case that Europe or Norway takes the greatest responsibility for these refugees. To Europe there will be 300 000 refugees each year. In 2011, more than 9 000 refugees arrived in Norway. It is not Norway – or Europe, for that matter – that takes the greatest responsibility for the refugee situation in the world today. We have to take this over. I'm not going to use this debate to talk so much about asylum policy or immigration policy – we've had several rounds in this room, I think we know each other's policies and positions in that area – but I want to talk about what several of the initiators have been about, namely integration policy. It will be an important topic in the future when we are about to start work on the communication of integration, which has been submitted to the Committee. I hope it's going to be a good debate, and if it's going to be a good debate, in my view, it's important that we talk the truth about the big picture. It should be allowed to put our finger on the many challenges that we still have in the integration field, but it is equally important to point to areas where we have actually succeeded. It does not always help either the debate or the integration to claim that integration has been completely unsuccessful, especially when it is not true. The Kalheim Committee’s report, Better integration, states ‘that policies and instruments have failed to deliver sufficient results’, while stressing at the same time: ‘The available knowledge base, available statistics and other facts show that integration in Norway is largely successful.’ The committee also says: ‘Compared with other OECD countries, immigrants are relatively well integrated into the labour market and a relatively high proportion of Norwegian births with immigrant parents take higher education. And progress is in the right direction.» This is a fact, and therefore I am concerned that the integration debate must be more about how we can make the policy work better than always to create the impression that everything has failed. I think the key to good integration lies in civil society. No one is integrated through a process at a Nav office, although we also need the important competence there. We absolutely need that competence, but it's primarily through relationships, and especially through relationships based on friendship and sincerity, one integrates. Important arenas here are social communities that include Nordics and immigrants, such as workplaces, teams and organisations, and not least schools. In our alternative budget, we have proposed a strengthening in the field of integration. Among other things, we are increasing. the grants to non-governmental organisations in the field of immigration, organisations with a high level of competence, such as the Christian Intercultural Work, the MiRA Centre and others. We want a start-up of project Refugee Guides in all municipalities, preferably in charge of volunteering. Norwegian training for non-Scandian workers is also an important measure. We don't just have to talk about integration, we also have to realize that this costs, and we have to be willing to set up to get this on track. There's my speaking time out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1643	After all, the Christian People's Party is a hot defender of the cash support – as we have seen before today – and was very excited that the government gave up the arrangement. Now we see that children with a minority background are increasingly in kindergarten, and schools report that minority-speaking children are increasingly mastering Norwegian than before. Does the representative Bekkewold agree that cash support has had a negative impact on integration and children’s language development and that it keeps out of kindergarten the children who need the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1650	I do not want to take part in that claim, at least not the last claim, from the representative Håkon Haugli. I think you have to give families the opportunity to make choices about their own situation, not least when it comes to how to solve the time squeeze – I think that's a choice that all parents have to be allowed to make, regardless of whether you're a family of immigrants or not. What we have proposed as an important measure, precisely to help improve language training for immigrant children, is free childcare space in the core. It's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. You don't have to get a whole group a good one to fix something you think is a challenge for a small group. We have the same confidence in immigrant families as we do in Norwegian families.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1657	There are just two thoughts in our minds that we challenge the Christian People's Party to have. The OECD has pointed out that children with a minority background in Norway are making schooling considerably worse than Norwegian children, and they have recommended the abolition of cash support. The distribution committee reached the same conclusion. If I perceive the answer correctly from the representative Becquerad, he says that the freedom of choice of other adults is more important than the language and integration of the minority children. What about women's right, opportunity and freedom to participate in professional life? Is that freedom of choice completely irrelevant to the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1662	For me, how the representative Haugli can conclude this with regard to the Christian People's Party's equality policy is completely incomprehensible. There is nothing in our policy, nor in the case of cash support, that suggests that the Christian People's Party should be accused of almost forcing women to stand out from work. That's what you choose. Remember, too, that the cash support is not a support for the children. Cash support is a scheme for families with children for two to three years. We have confidence that the parents themselves know best how to solve the time squeeze and how to solve the family challenges. We believe that there are no decisions to be made around the King's table. We also have that confidence in immigrant families. But we have therefore taken several measures, including: This initiative with free childcare space in the core age, precisely because we see, of course, the need for children to have good social skills, as well as language development.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1669	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1672	As I said before, we're not in the committee, so we haven't had the opportunity to join the comments, but I want to make some comments here. In our alternative state budget, we have proposals for greater reception of quota refugees. There are refugees who are not discussing whether or not there is a need for protection. To participate in the international effort is to take care of all those who are on the run, I think Norway should have been more plentiful with it. We also have proposals for a number of other integration measures in our alternative budget. This applies, for example: Ten million. more to migrant organisations, with a special boost to the MiRA centre that is doing a great job, especially in the case of women and integration. We have also put forward proposals for a number of measures to prevent exclusion from the labour market. We've added 40 million. Dr more for free core time in kindergarten, which we believe is a very good tool to improve integration and better schooling for very many students with poor language development. The left is also taking a different step in the draft budget. There are many thousands who live in Norway without a legal stay. Many of them live on our asylum recipients. The left believes that the system we have today is quite inhuman, both for those who are going to be here, and for those who are not going to be here – because there are some who are going to be returned. The fact that they are in Norwegian reception for years, I believe they are devastating both for them and for the future plans they should make. Therefore, we have increased the sum in terms of both voluntary and forced return. And then we believe that a lot should have been done in order to speed up the process. It has been possible to speed up the procedure, but this is mainly due to the fact that fewer applications have been made. The left wants a raise in this area and has granted 50 million. kr more to speed up proceedings in the UDI. The idea behind this is that someone is going to be in the country, and they should be informed as soon as possible, and as soon as possible start living normal lives, where they can plan their life in Norway. The fact that we use reception as a place of residence both for people who are not going to live here and for people who are going to live here is a bad start to a life in Norway – or a bad start to a life elsewhere. We should have cleared up this -- it's an economic challenge, of course, and that challenge we've started working on in our alternative state budget. It could have been tempting to say something about caring for culture, which I believe is also our task. There is an understanding that it is important to take care of the Norwegian culture, both folk dance, cultural memory protection and all the strange Norwegian things that we think we have a responsibility to take care of. It concerns both tangible and intangible culture. Why, then, are not measures to take care of a part of Norwegian culture because it is Sami, something worth – it is quite incomprehensible to me. I think it is important to take care of the entire ‘flower’ that is the Norwegian culture. That means that we have some indigenous people that we are responsible for taking care of, and then we are responsible for taking care of what Norway has contributed to creating and contributing to the world cultural heritage. We do, and it's a responsibility I feel we take. Having a selective view on which parts of the Norwegian cultural heritage we are going to take care of, I think, is a rather strange principle. I needed to say that from here. I'm sure the left does not help to make voting tidy when we say that we are voting in favour of proposal No. 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 11, 15, 17, 20 and 29, but that's my challenge to the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1696	For a time, the left has signed up for what will be a civil gathering to the next elections. We have seen today how immigration and integration policies are breaking up between the Progress Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other, and that the Progress Party is bringing together a total of 1.4 billion. D in the two policy areas. I wonder if Trine Skei Grande has already come up with some ideas about what is going to become a common civil immigration and inclusion policy – if it were to happen that they would be in position after the elections next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1701	Yes, at least we have ambitions that we should be able to influence the policy in our direction. That's why we're making choices. I'm not going to say that it's easy to find similarities between the Progress Party and the Left in the asylum field, but when we see what the government has done, and how the government has outrun SV in this case, I think that if I'm going to give a good tip to the Right – which seems to be becoming a big brother – it's not going over the Left in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1706	The answer is so much in line with what Trine Skei Grande has previously said – that she rather cooperates with the Progress Party in immigration and asylum policy than with the Workers' Party. The spokesperson of the Progress Party stood on the pulpit earlier today and said very clearly that ‘the party is responsible for immigration policy’. Does Trine Skei Grande agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1712	What I have said before is that there are great similarities between the Labour Party and the Advance Party's immigration policy, not necessarily in rhetoric, but in practical policy it is not easy to see the differences anymore. I think today's challenge is to get such a big focus on this that we can both maintain humanity and get to a code that means that we don't treat people as caste balls – or as I said in my main post was one of our main actions in the budget, that it's going to be the result of getting a yes or a no, and that the consequences are getting pretty fast. For us who have traveled around asylum recipients and seen how people live their lives, it's actually a pretty big challenge to see that people in Norway get their lives put on hold this year after year. And we destroy a lot of people both mentally and physically with the life we offer them at reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1719	Step Skei Grande did not answer the question of whether she believes that the Progress Party is responsible for immigration policy, but when any negotiations are going to begin – whether it is before or after the elections, and whether we get it done before or after the elections – it is certainly an open question so far. I don't know if it's good time and tone to be able to use a line to wish happiness, because it can really be needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1724	The President will leave it to Trine Skei Grande to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1727	I would like to receive congratulations, but it is clear that this cannot be negotiated before a choice, because it is the voters who will decide. It is clear that this policy is going to be different if the Left gets a heavy hand on the wheel than if we don't get it. I think it might be a choice that the Norwegian people will be allowed to make, and I'm glad they're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1734	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1737	Developments in the field of immigration show that the number of asylum seekers to Norway has remained stable, while the percentage of admission has increased. This may indicate that fewer asylum seekers travel to Norway without a real need for protection. Furthermore, the number of asylum proceedings in the UDI has decreased considerably and returns have increased. These conditions have contributed to a significant reduction in the budget. Government expenditure on the operation of asylum-seekers has been reduced by nearly 1.2 billion. kr from the 2010 budget balance measured against this draft budget. The productivity of the treatment of housing cases in the UDI has also increased steadily in 2011 and 2012, especially in relation to family and expulsion cases. The government, through the draft budget for next year, will continue the positive development in the field of immigration. Developments in UNE proceedings have not yet been as good as in UDI. This is due, inter alia, to: UDI has greatly reduced its residues, leading to increased case access to UNE. I draw attention to the fact that UNE is now in the end of a review of all its activities, with the aim of identifying efficiency possibilities. The government's long-term ambition is that the overall duration of proceedings in asylum cases, from registration to final decisions, shall not exceed one year. The government has therefore proposed an increase of 25 million in the UN budget. kr in 2013 for increased procedural capacity and the necessary ICT measures to increase case resolution, in particular in child-related issues. There are currently almost 5 000 people in Norwegian asylum recipients who have received a final rejection of their application for asylum. These people have an obligation to leave the country, and the government places emphasis on work in this field. It is absolutely crucial both for the legitimacy of the asylum institution and for the future of individuals that we get even more returns from people with an exit obligation. The government has therefore proposed to increase UDI and police budgets by a total of 20 million. kr next year for return work. In particular, increased efforts shall be directed towards long-term receptions and groups that are otherwise difficult to return. Based on the numbers of asylum seekers arriving in Norway so far this year, we are now about to receive about. 9 500 asylum seekers in the current year, which is also the current forecast for next year. This is an increase of about 500 from 2011. However, the number of asylum seekers we receive each year depends on a number of unpredictable factors, such as: the development of the areas from which asylum seekers leave. We have seen a general increase in arrivals in recent months, and it is important to note that our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark are now experiencing increases in asylum arrivals. The latest forecasts indicate that Sweden will receive 54 000 asylum seekers next year. For the government, it is important to maintain in this situation that we have a strict and fair asylum policy and that we continue to work to reduce the number of asylum seekers without a real need for protection. We will continue to work on a more efficient management of foreigners with shorter processing times. In this context, it is interesting that in its alternative draft budget, the Progress Party has reduced a number of expenditure items in the foreign field. The amendment to the Progress Party is based on a forecast of 5 000 asylum seekers next year. Thus, the proposal is limited to the actual immigration situation and to the scope provided by current laws, and would in reality result in a sharp increase in processing times and in the number of pending cases. The government has demonstrated good control of asylum policy. We follow closely the situation in this area in order to take proper action, even if new circumstances or challenges arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1756	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1759	In 2004, the Police Foreign Unit had about half of their current strength, i.e. They are now twice as large, but they are not able to transport as many people as they did in 2004. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1764	An effective return policy is a fundamental prerequisite for our immigration policy. The foreign policy unit of the police has a key role to play in ensuring such an effective return policy. Our primary wish is for an asylum seeker who refuses his application for a stay to return voluntarily, but if necessary we will also be forced to return. The objective is for the Foreign Affairs Unit to increase the number of returns next year. The various issues are difficult to compare, so that the direct comparison that has taken place between 2004 – as I understood the representative referred to – and the current situation is difficult to go into now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1773	I am pleased that the Council of State continues to use the concept of ‘strict and fair asylum policy’ – that is fully in agreement with the Right. In February, the Council of State wrote an article in the VG which is also referred to the Government.no: ‘We need return agreements’. It says – and this was in February – that we are negotiating agreements with 20 countries. Can the State Council give an updated status of how many of these agreements have arrived at port? And begins to see any effect of the return agreements that have been concluded? Does the Council of State have any opinion as to whether it works as intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1780	I can confirm that there are still 20 countries with which we negotiate return agreements. Return agreements are important, and we have seen an increase in the number of returns over the years in recent years. Our aim is for asylum seekers who refuse their applications to return voluntarily. However, once we have also implemented new measures to make return by force possible, it is most positive to record that voluntary returns are increasing as much as the number of forced returns. Of course, it is important for us to ensure that the agreements we have work as intended, and as I said, we also want agreements with new countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1788	Immigration policy has been the subject of much debate in the last year. The last matter we dealt with here was the message Children on the run, where the government received great support from a broad majority. It was only the Christian People's Party and the Left who had strong objections to the sides of that message. The party that was perhaps closest to the government parties was the Progress Party. My question is: is it that the Workers' Party to crack this famous FrP code has actually moved towards the Progress Party in immigration policy, or is it the Progress Party that has become milder at the edges and approaching the Red-Greens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1795	When I read the setting for next year's budget, my impression of reality is not at all as the representative Bekkewold describes it. On the contrary, there is a broad majority behind many of the proposals. It doesn't include the Progress Party. I record that the Progress Party does not actually choose to relate to the reality that the Stortinges otherwise relate to. When the Progress Party cuts significantly in the budget appropriations, there is a high risk that the procedure for individual applications will be extended, and that it is therefore not possible to ensure a quick decision on matters that are crucial for people to move on, either to a life in Norway or to continue their lives in their country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1800	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1803	The Ørsal Johansen of the Progress Party called for facts in its article. He raised himself to the great heights and concluded that the Progress Party is not responsible for the regulation and previously unworthy treatment of couples in Norway. No one has claimed it, either. The party of progress did not exist as a party during the worst regulation period. That's the facts. But it is also the fact that the Workers' Party and the other parties have made a settlement with the common policies of the past. We've learned from history. Clearly, this has not been done by the Progress Party when one hears their views on the common policy of today. I believe that Ørsal Johansen's contributions do not exactly contribute to a good immigration and cohesion policy for a possible new government. The outlines of any new policy seem neither inclusive nor stimulating to them with a different ethnic background than the majority here in the Chamber, unfortunately. So over to the settlement of refugees. A prerequisite to be integrated into the Norwegian community is that the person to be integrated has a place to live, learn the Norwegian language, and get into education or work. If we meet these three main conditions, the chances are great that people legally resident in Norway can start a process where they are integrated as a fully-fledged individual into a community. Unfortunately, many have lived for many years in reception while waiting to live in a municipality. Of course, they can improve their Norwegian skills while sitting there, but the rest of their lives are waiting. In order to start an active life in Norway and to qualify for participation in society in line with others, it is imperative to live in a municipality. We now have approx. 3 500 people legally residing in Norway who are in asylum receptions around the country and are waiting for their residence. Municipalities are not unwilling to accommodate people who are staying, but the reason for the delay is often that there is a lack of housing in each municipality. That is certainly correct, but it is not satisfactory. The municipalities have to settle more than before. We cannot have a lot of people who are inactive on asylum reception in this way. There is waste of human resources, both for non-residents and for municipalities. KS has concluded a three-year agreement with the country to contribute to the settlement. It is important that we see more people settled already in the first year. KS has to make visible – and make it aware – to its member municipalities that each of them has to contribute to bringing up the housing figures and bringing down the balances. Housing is not a one-off case for most municipalities. It is a permanent task that the municipalities must operate continuously, and they must include this field in their planned work. We tend to say that a stranger is a friend you don't know. Here it may be appropriate to say that there are many human resources that local authorities do not know or use. If Norway is to appear as a voice and inclusive society, we need to take the housing challenges seriously. The Norwegian people are a good people. Now it's time for a resettling table.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1818	Mangfold is everyday in Norway. We have immigrants in all municipalities, and we have to plan for this diversity. We have to view diversity as an opportunity for local communities. The majority of immigrants in Norway are working. They speak Norwegian and feel connected to the Norwegian community. Norwegian-born children with immigrant parents participate too fully in work and education, and have living conditions close to the rest of the population. At the same time, there are some groups of immigrants who are not working. Women with a background from some countries in Africa and Asia are less at work and less economically viable. Being outside the labour market is not just a loss for those concerned. There is also a loss for Norwegian society, because we need labour and skills. We need citizens who participate in the Norwegian community with their resources, dreams and ideas. It is particularly important that more immigrant women come to work. We know that work is the key to social participation, economic seaworthiness and equality for women. When women are at work, the family economy is strengthened. When they learn language and get to work, their children get a better starting point for success in school and leisure. We want to make it easier for more immigrants, especially immigrant women, to get to work. As of 2013, as many have pointed out here, we are introducing Jobjeansen as a permanent scheme, with a strengthening of 30 million. kr extra from 1 July next year, and a full year effect of 60 million. kr extra from 2014. Job opportunities are particularly targeted at domestic immigrant women. The participants are followed up by regular contact persons. Norwegian and vocational training are among the most important measures. Many of the participants get right into work, and that makes the scheme profitable. In the case of child poverty, or what is called persistent low income, there are many families with migrant backgrounds. My Department, Barne, Ministry of Gender Equality and Inclusion, works with child poverty along several lines: First, we strengthen child protection, in interaction and cooperation with the others who can make a difference in children's lives. We now have the largest contribution to municipal child protection in 20 years, and we are working on the multicultural competence of child protection and the knowledge of child protection for immigrants. Secondly, we need to ensure that children are heard, and that we see and respect the children either in social services, health services, foreign affairs, child protection, schools or kindergartens. We need to take children seriously and have child-care skills. Thirdly, we need to get a quick settlement and integration right from the start. Strengthening women’s perspective in the introduction programmes is particularly important. Fourth, we need to do a more out-of-office business. We need to focus more on measures such as Jobjesen instead of passivating arrangements such as the cash support. Then we have to ring and use the transitional aid as it is to be used, which is to help people get into work and prevent poverty traps. Then we need to strengthen the arenas that are common to different children, and where different children can meet. This is the case, for example. free core time and bet in kindergartens are crucial. We now see that in terms of core time in kindergartens, kindergartens in urban areas offering free core time have more immigrant children than urban areas that do not pay attention to this. Then we have major housing challenges. It's a big problem because it means that people don't get their lives started quickly enough, and because their chances of being passive in their communities, rather than active, are too great. This means that we need to make a stronger effort to get more of those who have received a residence permit. This is a good development in the case of lone minor refugees. In the case of families with children, we still have major challenges, and, not least, in the case of lonely, particularly lonely men. What we're doing is, among other things, what we're doing. to set up a new agreement with KS. They're the key to doing this, and I'm glad that the Storting and the Committee are impatient about this. In addition, we are working on direct placement of lone minors, and we are also working on getting development funds for municipalities, so that municipalities can get better introduction schemes, which means getting a better integration process, which in turn leads to more municipalities becoming positive at receiving more immigrants. In order for municipalities to find it positive to accept refugees, it is essential that integration works well and that more people come into work. This can make us a positive spiral over a negative spiral.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1844	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1847	We have some national resource environments in Norway in immigration and integration, to which the Council of State generally governs the allocations. There have been some re-priorities both in the last year's budget and in this year's budget. One of the changes that have been made is that HRS, the Human Rights Service, has been cut in its appropriations. It's almost time to ask: what does the state council have against HRS, and what is it, for example? Anti-racist Centers do what, according to the Council of State, is so right in relation to what the Human Rights Service does?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1852	We have many national resource environments that do very well and very much right. One of the things we especially want to encourage is to contribute to a constructive and egalitarian dialogue that enables us to live together in respect of each other. One of the areas in which we're particularly concerned is homosexuals with immigrant backgrounds. We see that we have a lot of work to do in the future to contribute to increased respect for homosexuals with immigrant backgrounds and also to increase knowledge of how they are doing. We also see that we probably have to do more to counteract coercion, among other things, for these people. That is why we have decided to transfer 200 000 kroner that are currently going to HRS, to OMOD, the Organisation against Public Discrimination, so that they can work on this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1859	It is a reality that today there are 3,400 refugees in line to settle — refugees who have been accommodated. The Christian People's Party believes that the state must contribute increased investment funds for the purchase of housing for refugees, and that the investment grant for the purchase of housing for refugees must be increased from 20 p.m., as it is today, to at least 40 p.m., so that several refugees can also settle in municipalities where there are high housing prices. The Christian People's Party has therefore, in a verbal proposal, encouraged the government to increase the investment grant for the purchase of housing for refugees to at least 40 pst. in the context of the revised national budget. Is there something the Council of State wants to follow up on?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1864	I can't, of course, predict revised national budgets, because we haven't started that work at all. But now the Minister of Housing is also sitting in the Chamber, and this is a question that we are discussing. We get a lot of feedback that is just going towards the fact that the municipalities are struggling with their lack of good housing capacity, and that there is a plug in the system when it comes to housing. So it's natural that we discuss further how the instruments can be arranged in such a way that it becomes more effective. We'll take care of that, too. There are several things that the Minister of Housing has now done and will follow up on, among other things. in the case of grants and instruments of the House Bank. This is a topic that we're going to have a dialogue on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1869	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1873	Yesterday, during the peace-price distribution, we were reminded that Europe has gone from being a part of the world marked by war to a part of the world where there is peace. Obliging economic cooperation has been part of the basis for peace in Europe. Norway participates through the EEA Agreement and European cooperation is characterised by Norway. 650 000 people with a migrant background live in Norway. Almost half of these have a background from Europe. The main immigrant groups come from Poland, Sweden, Germany and Lithuania. National wealth does not consist primarily of oil, gas, fish, minerals or, for that matter, State pension funds abroad. The dominant part of the common property, approx. 85 pst., the value of our common future work. The 650 000 people with a migrant background represent no cost, as some try to give the impression, they represent a large and important part of national wealth. They build homes, they work in hospitals, they run our main airport, and they do hundreds of other important tasks in our society. In 2011, net immigration to Norway was 47 000 persons. That's the highest number ever recorded. Immigrants are currently the largest group, but they are the ones who come here to seek protection, who get the most political attention here today. The aim of the Workers' Party is to provide a socially decent and managed immigration and a consistent, solidarity and legal certainty of asylum and refugee policies. The objective of integration policy is a society based on diversity and tolerance, all of which have equal opportunities, rights and obligations to participate and contribute to society. Faster processing of asylum applications, faster residence for those who receive refugee status, and faster return – preferably voluntary – for those who do not have the basis for staying in Norway are the pillars of government asylum policy. It goes towards the end of a very interesting debate. We've seen four opposition parties that all attack the government, but from different sides, with completely different sense of reality, with completely different arguments and with completely different objectives. The Progress Party will put all asylum seekers in closed reception, tighten and cut 1 billion. kr. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party are talking about something that at least looks like free immigration: each asylum seeker should be able to decide his own case to a large extent. The decisions of the Norwegian authorities are only a starting point. In the middle of this, we have the Right, which is primarily concerned with immigrants and otherwise supports a lot of what the government does. It is difficult – not to say impossible – to imagine how this option is at all an alternative, or there is one option, but it will be a topic in another debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1893	It was representative Ørsal Johansen's posts that made me draw. Strictly speaking, the budget chapters belong to the previous debate, but the article is politically relevant because we are now discussing integration policy. The representative of Ørsal Johansen managed to say from the pulpit that the Norwegian state has treated hermit in a very little pleasant way. I must be allowed to say that it must also be today's understatement. I'm taking the chance to advance the future debates as well. He was also concerned about clarifying that the Workers' Party was responsible for the research policy that was being pursued. Yes, it is true that the Workers' Party must take its share of that responsibility, but the research policy started already in the 1800s and was carried through the 1800s and 1900s. But it was also the Workers' Party that made a settlement with the policy, culminating in His Majesty the King making the nation's apology to the Sami people at the opening of the Sameton in 1997. We have put this policy behind us. We've settled it and run a different policy. And, as my good colleague Ingalill Olsen said, we have learned from our missteps. It was the representative of Arild Stokkan-Grande who addressed the same policy in the previous debate. He was concerned to refer to recent examples of unity, among others. from Trondheim, where it's not just verbal harassment, but where you also tend to feel like the same. He also pointed to statistics that show that the Sami population experiences bullying ten times as often as others. This is a serious social problem. But it is not right, as Ørsal Johansen and the Progress Party say, that the policy towards the Sami does not work. The representative should have been involved in the factual evidence that actually exists, rather than calling for a lack of factual evidence. He could have looked up in Sami numbers tells 5, which came out this year, as among other things. show that there is a strong increase in the use of Sami in secondary school, that the figures for the use of Sami as a first language in primary school are stable, and that there is also stable use in kindergartens. It is also possible to save extinct languages. On the Isle of Man island was Gaelic extinct as a language. You decided to do something about it, and now you speak Gaelic in both kindergartens and schools there. So it's completely possible to do something about this. I will be careful to characterize how others experience the rhetoric that I heard from the representative Ørsal Johansen. But to me, there was a rhetoric playing on fear, on prejudice and on uncertainty about what could happen. In the period between my post and Ørsal Johansens, I was in the web. There I saw that it was as late as today – in my home town of Bodø – someone who had again broken down the one sign with the Sami name of Bodø. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] This is a societal problem
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1906	I will not comment on the tirad from Ørsal Johansen in terms of responsibility for the research process, which I feel is that the entire Norwegian society has taken responsibility for, and which the King has also complained about. I take the word to comment on the second part of his posts, which I don't get to hang out with. On the one hand, the representative asks that we now need to wake up and take responsibility for the Sami language, because some parts of it have disappeared, and other parts are in danger of disappearing. But in the same debate, and in the same setting, one performs to cut in the areas where Sami languages can be learned and developed. There is no internal coherence in what is being accomplished by the Advance Party Group on this topic. For it is cut in kindergartens, in schools, in language measures, in newspapers and in culture. And not only is it cut, it's cut – in the areas where you can run language training and language development. This is a policy that will lead to the disappearance of languages. It's true, as Erik Sivertsen says, that you can always get training in languages that have died out. But don't let the Storting and today's society and us be responsible for a policy that leads to the languages we have today dying out. That is, of course, the policy adopted by the Progressive Party with its proposals for cutbacks. It is much better to take care of languages and further develop them, which we have ambitions about, than to introduce a policy that puts the whole thing dead. The question will then be – if you cut everything: How will those who have lost their language have the opportunity to reacquire it? How are children growing up today going to have the opportunity to learn the language if you kiss in kindergartens and schools? And how should the Sami culture be maintained without language? This has not been answered by the Progress Party at all. They do exactly the same in this area as they do in integration policy. They say this should be the responsibility of the individual. And there we see a very clear distinction between us and the Progress Party – we actually want to invest in people and build people so that they can stand on their own legs and... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1917	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1930	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1939	The Committee has agreed that it is important to implement proposed changes to the Local Government Act and related regulations in order to strengthen the role and operation of the Monitoring Committee. The Committee considers that all municipalities and county councils must give priority to good management of the resources both in their own activities and in ownership of activities which are separated into wholly or partly rented companies. Self-control is an important element in building trust in the municipality, among other things. by preventing and detecting maladministration, breach of rules and other adverse conditions in the municipality. Another important element is that control work provides the basis for learning and improvement. The self-control of municipalities and county councils is governed by municipal law. The Municipal Committee, the auditor and the Administrative Manager perform different control activities to ensure the efficient and proper use of the resources and that the services comply with legal and local requirements. The municipality has a wide range of tasks. For self-control to be effective, it is important that it covers all the ways in which the municipality solves its tasks. Municipal Norway must be experienced by its inhabitants as an arena of participation and commitment to the development of its community. Open administration is maintained through work on attitudes and good practice locally. The legal requirements for processing, transparency and self-control are intended to ensure good processes within municipalities. If a municipality is to operate well, it is important to have closeness and knowledge of the municipality. Therefore, the government parties have seen that in small municipalities it can be challenging to find people who are eligible under the municipal law § 77 no. 2 to be in the control committee. The majority therefore asks the government to assess whether employees in the municipality should be available to the control committee under certain conditions. If you, for example, However, working in a 3 pst position in the voluntary fire service, it should be possible to consider sitting in the control committee if the rules of the administrative law are followed. The Government parties are pleased that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has sent an assessment of the professional secrecy of the local authorities at the hearing. The Government Parties wish to include a reference to Section 30 No. 4 of § 29 nr. 4, so that it becomes clear that the board of municipal undertakings will also include in the meeting book the decision that the meeting should be closed and the basis for the decision. We further ask the government to assess whether there is a need for clarification in the law, that the report of the control committee to the local government or county council on the administrative audits carried out, and the results thereof, be carried out annually. Now, as we know, in some municipalities, this is done once during the four-year term. We think that might be a little bit scarce. In order for municipalities to have the confidence they need to be good municipalities, it is important that they do the tasks they are assigned by law, in a manner consistent with the rules in force. It concerns care places for the elderly and good kindergartens for the children. In other words, the municipalities have a duty to keep order in their own house. Nevertheless, I would like to point out at the end that the State as legislator has a responsibility to facilitate a comprehensive internal control in the municipality. An overall committee sees the need for a comprehensive review of the municipal law in order to strengthen municipal autonomy and asks the government to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1965	The Committee has agreed that all municipalities and county councils must give priority to good management of the resources, both in the municipality's own activities and in ownership of companies separated in whole or in part. The majority of the Committee, all of its non-committee members from the Right, sees it as important to implement proposed changes to local authorities and their regulations in order to strengthen the role and operation of the control selection. The party of progress appeared on the general basis that many of these proposals in Prop. No 119 L is unproblematic and makes corrections to different laws. The progress party has merged with KS to prevent leaders and board members from selection to control selection. We still think that this is not enough if you want to create the necessary trust among the inhabitants. The Progress Party therefore has the following suggestions and wants it in Kommunelova § 77 nr. 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The rapporteur, deputy rapporteur, alternate rapporteur, member and alternate member of the chairmanship and county council, member and alternate of the municipal or county council, with decision-making authority, member of the local council or county council, member and alternate of the local board and the county council committee, pursuant to Section 10a, employees of the municipality or county council, and managers and members of the board of municipal companies shall be excluded from elections.’; The progressive party of openness and transparency is an important democratic principle. We therefore believe that inter-communal companies and businesses should also be open, except if any of these operate with commercial activity. Therefore, the progress party has a suggestion about this. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party believes that it is inconvenient that municipalities and county councils operate commercial business. The Progress Party also believes that the control selection must have frameworks to order more administrative audits, and believes that this must be done by intensifying the annual management audit. Therefore, the progress game also has a suggestion about this. The Progress Party also believes that the obligations of municipal auditors must be softened and coordinated with the principles of the National Audit Office. We want to show that a municipal auditor today has a very strict responsibility, which is almost universal and goes much further than predicting the obligations of the National Audit Office. We therefore also have an own proposal to do this to adjust the auditor's liability in local elections, so that she is more in harmony with the principles of the National Audit Office. Although the Progress Party believes that the obligations of the municipal auditors must be softened, at the same time we are concerned with quality assurance of information before they reach the public space. We therefore believe that an exposed public opinion for the auditor's hearing draft should be introduced, and that the municipal administration has the right to express itself before the final report is submitted. Therefore, the lot of progress has the following suggestions: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to introduce deferred public opinion for a public hearing.’ I take up our suggestions on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1994	The representative, Åge Starheim, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e1997	This proposition contains what I want to call an integral part and a part that is in the order of the system of the municipal control apparatus. With regard to the content part, we support the part that is intended not to be able to raise loans for something that includes VAT – a value added tax that is later refunded. If you had allowed that, you would actually be able to circumvent one of the basic principles of municipal government, namely that you should not be able to raise loans for operation. So that's a good and correct clarification that's made in the proposition. In the case of the regulation, the Ministry proposes to legislate that meetings of the control committee and board meetings of municipal undertakings should, as a general rule, be open-ended. As far as the control committee is concerned, the Ministry proposes that it be chosen at the constituent meeting of the Municipal Council. To these regulations, I would like to say that the state goes very far in detailed legislation, without one being sure that this leads to what one is looking for – more transparency, better control regime or what it is now. Some of us in this room actually have quite extensive experience from the local government. In any local government, regardless of the party background, there are people who are concerned with control and formalities. My experience is that one can very well leave to the individual local government to make the decisions and choose the selection they need in connection with constitution, based on what is a practical order for them. The problem of legislating for many of society's areas, the municipal sector, which in itself is under democratic control by the voters and the press in a municipality, is that of course there is also an increased chance of breaches of such regulations, which in the press are taken up as material offences. One side effect of this is that you no longer take so carefully into account whether there are crimes that have to do with content, that are set to preserve people's integrity or rights, or whether there are pure regulations. Over time, it will be clear from a legal point of view that respect for laws and regulations is not the same, because inflation has simply gone down in them. There is a lot to say about this tendency in any context to guard against what is right in the everyday life of a local government. Thinking that you can predict any practical situation and then give rules for this, are ambitions that you might have seen in the past. But it has always led to much formal light and less real compliance because it is simply not practicable to keep track of so many important and unimportant regulations. This may quickly lead to the loss of an overview of the important provisions. We also believe that where the municipality organises parts of its activity as a company, the municipality as owner or the company itself has to assess whether they want to practise more publicity according to normal rules. On one point, however, we fully agree that there should be publicity that is the general rule. It is in those cases where the municipalities join with other municipalities and organise cooperation through intercommunal companies. Then you are on the outside of the relevant local government, and I believe that the public should have the full opportunity to see what is going on in the intercommunal companies. With this I would advise that we are going to vote against some of the paragraphs that are proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2016	I am pleased that there is a great deal of detail in the committee on the proposals. Local authorities' own control is important for several reasons. A good self-control helps to create trust among the inhabitants. The self-control shall also ensure efficient and correct use of resources in the municipalities. For local populace, it is important to know what works well in the municipality, and what works less well. I think openness is decisive for a well-functioning local democracy, and it is time that also meetings in the control selections as a general rule should go for open doors. It is important that both citizens and media can be present when the control selection manages its affairs. The importance of the public interest obligations, privacy and heavy public interest is well taken care of in the municipal authorities' announcement of the public meeting, which will also apply to the selection of controls. The control selection is the popular part of self-control. I would like to strengthen the role of the control selection and will briefly mention the fact that the control selection is to be chosen at the constituent meeting of the Municipal Council, and submitted to ensure the transparency of all limited liability companies that are directly or indirectly integrated by the municipality. I believe it is important that self-control be seen on the local agenda. We therefore propose to introduce a requirement to report on the work of internal control in the annual report to the municipality. Through the reporting, the local authority will be provided with information and the possibility to discuss the internal control work in the municipality. In this proposition, we suggest that a meeting of the board of municipal companies as a general rule should be open-ended. Although this is not directly related to the theme of self-control, it also aims to create confidence in municipal activity and to strengthen local democracy. Although the organisational model ‘municipal enterprise’ is adapted to more business-like activity, it is not limited to applying only to such activity. Law opens in principle that all parts of the municipality can be organised as municipal enterprises. So I can't see that the concern of the municipal businesses that run business requires us to have a general rule that says that the board of directors is closed unless the local government has decided otherwise. The general rules on the public meeting in local authorities, §§ 31 and 31a, should therefore also apply to municipal enterprises. Of course, there may be individual cases where a company needs to protect its business. This is an adequate provision in the exceptional cases of heavy public interest in local authorities § 31 nr. 5th@item: inlistbox The aim of many of the proposals is to facilitate a strengthened self-control in the municipalities, but I would also like to conclude by saying that the responsibility for good self-control lies primarily with the municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2035	Good internal control is a prerequisite for legitimacy and for democracy to function well in the municipalities. It is particularly important to have well-qualified people in the control committees. The chosen ones must have knowledge of municipal and county administration, know the lines between policy and administration, and be able to monitor the proper implementation and enforcement of legally adopted policy decisions. As noted above, it may be difficult to find qualified members and managers of the control committee in the smallest municipalities. The rules for who is not selectable are strict, and they must be strict. However, the majority of the Committee has found it necessary to point out that the government has to assess whether employees in the municipality should be eligible for the Supervisory Committee under certain conditions. I can mention here an example of one who is not a municipal employee initially, but who has a division of approximately. 3 pst. as a voluntary firefighter. If the employment rate in the municipality is so low, he/she should be able to exercise the control function, except in relation to the fire floor. Other examples may be someone who has one or two hours in the cultural school as well as other non-municipal jobs. Even in those cases, it has to be that you can't control the business you're in. The majority of the Committee considers that such a case does not impair the legitimacy of the Monitoring Committee and recommends that the government incorporate such an opening into the regulations of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2042	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2055	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to three lines of response be given to contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2066	As advertised it is Meld. Paragraph 28 for 2011–2012 we are about to deal with. She was present at the Stortinget on 15 June of this year, and the Municipal Committee gave its opinion on 4 December. The title of this message, which is abbreviated as the Building Message, is Good Building for a Better Society – A Forward-Looking Building Policy. That sounds really nice, that's nice words and nice formulations. Good construction is good, a better society is even better, and a forward-looking building policy also stands out very well. But when you go into this, it's not as impressive as everything that's standing there. A building message is initially positive, but I should like her to be a little more specific, that there was a little more substance in the message. There is also a housing message in addition to this building message. She's been promised to come this year, but now she's postponed to next year. In principle, it might have been natural that these two, both the building message and the housing message, had been seen in context, but it has not been done. Of course, we have to take note of that. The government party is behind this message, as it tends to be, and there are various comments and suggestions from the opposition. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have three proposals in their teams, the Progress Party and the Right have four proposals in their teams, and the Progress Party has five proposals on its own. Now I assume that the various parties are taking the word about this message and are talking about the comments and suggestions they have joined and behind, and that the government parties are also taking the word and expressing why they are not joining our proposals and comments. I would therefore like to focus on what is the Progress Party's starting point. We see that this message has good intentions in a number of areas, but unfortunately she asks for a government that is concerned with strong government governance and that is detailed focus. This applies primarily to energy-efficient construction, where the government comes up with notice of new demands, which I will return to later in my post. The message contains both good and bad suggestions. Good suggestions in the message are simplification of building axis processes. We thought it was good that the government realized that there was a need for that. Unfortunately, this comes a little late in the period. It is also good that one announces a knowledge gap for the construction sector. The problem is that one is little concrete about how and when to implement these proposals. That's what we're Alpha and Omega mean. Progress is important. We can't see any reason why governments can't just put simplifications into the construction axis processes. Then there are some other suggestions that, in our opinion, are bad. Additional energy efficiency requirements apply in buildings with measures both for new buildings and for existing buildings, but mainly for new buildings. Here the message is very clear and concrete, and she determines that an absolute requirement for passive house level will be introduced in the whole country from 2015. Then a new zero energy level requirement shall be introduced in 2020. These are additional requirements to those already in place for energy efficiency and universal design in the regulations called TEK7 and TEK10. The point of departure is quite clear: it must mainly be up to the individual builder/house buyer, who, in consultation with the construction industry, determines the qualities and requirements to be met by the individual construction. It is not a national task to detail what the housing should look like, it is up to the individual builder/housekeeper to assess for himself. There are some points - seven points - in this message that I intend to go through. The first point is about government's building policy, an introductory discussion. There are also many fine words here, but there is not much forward-looking content and substance in the message. Furthermore, the government does not attempt to discuss the context — assess and illustrate the context — between new demands and increased construction costs, and the challenges this poses by building too few dwellings in Norway today. We in the Progress Party are concerned about rising housing prices and the fact that many, especially young people, have problems getting into the housing market. There is something that should worry more, and this is a development that has worsened the times of the red-green government having its seat of power. When one comes up with even more stringent requirements, this will lead to an increase in the cost of construction and the construction of fewer dwellings. Of course, both parts will help to increase prices and make it even harder for young people to establish themselves in the housing market. In Chapter 2, one refers to the construction sector in Norway. Here you can see a table where you have set up a regulatory national tool. The tools that one refers to here are not exhaustive, but it's an extract of what kind of laws regulate the construction sector in Norway. I thought I'd read them: the law on planning and building with regulations and guidelines the law on civil engineering and civil engineering the law on energy law the law on fire and explosion protection the law on health and safety at work the law on health and safety at work the law on discrimination against consumers the law on contracts and contracts the law on public hearings in connection with environmental construction legislation. [[planetary part]] [[part of the building]] [[Housing Entry Act, Trade Services Act, Ownership mediation Act, Disposal Act, Taxiing Rules etc.]] [[Public procurement law, contract law, purchasing law etc.]] Then there are some people who wonder why it is being built too little dwellings in this country. I just have to say that with all this detailed regulation and all these laws, I think it is impressive that housing is being built in this country at all. Here there is a need to cut down on the number of laws to regulate this, but here the government is going the opposite way, one introduces even more detailed rules and even more detailed management from central authorities. In addition, there is a table showing economic activity. He is also not exhausting, but for me to get through this in 15 minutes, I don't think I want to start reading that table. It would take too long. The Progress Party simply believes that this chapter underlines in a good way that the problem in Norway today is not too small a building policy, but it is too much and too bad a building policy. Therefore, the public must regulate less and no more, in order to balance the housing market. In Chapter 3, the government has a chapter on competence and development in the construction sector, which refers to research and development, innovation, and competence. Of course, this is something the Progress Party is in favour of, but we also fear here that the government's regulatory spirit can lead to bureaucracy and increase costs. But we're basically positive to Building21, as long as it doesn't get too extensive. We also have a proposal here where we ask the government to prioritise indoor climate as a bet area for Building21. It is, of course, related to the fact that housing requirements have become much more dense in recent years, and it is important to identify how this will affect indoor climates, and how this will turn out for those with asthma and allergies, and for health in general. In Chapter 4, we have robust qualities in the built environment – from architecture to construction waste. What we mean here is that we must be very reluctant to impose new detailed requirements on new buildings, and that developments must be natural without the pressure of central government when it comes to building buildings. We propose that all dwellings below 55 m2 be exempted from the requirement of availability or universal design. In addition, we have some comments and suggestions on radon in indoor air, which is a challenge in some places in the country. Then we have Chapter 5, which is about energy use. Here's what I said in the introduction, new demands for passive house level and zero energy level, and this point of view the Progress Party is unfortunate. We think we have to be very reluctant to impose detailed requirements on new buildings, and rather that developments must be natural without pressure from central authorities. That is why we also believe that the government should consider reversing some of the energy efficiency requirements that have already been adopted, and we propose it. It looks like the Progress Party is standing alone, both when it's up to the passive house level from 2015, and when it's up to it to reverse some of the requirements that have already been imposed. We also think it's a little paradox that we're going to be in the front row that has so much renewable energy. Our electricity supply comes largely from hydropower. We also have great potential when it comes to building water power. That's why, no matter what one might think of global warming osb., there's little to pick up on energy efficiency in barley in Norway, because it comes from renewable sources and it's not a fossil fuel – most of it is electricity from hydropower. It's also said a little bit about effective construction shaft processes, and we're very positive about that, if the government suggests it. But there is nothing concrete in this message about simplifying a message. One says it's good to simplify, and that's what we're dealing with. My advice is that then the government should simply start and bring these simplifications. Then it is not necessary to wait any longer with it – I thought seven years would be long enough. Another thing that is not simplification is that there will be a new claim from 1 January 2013, which is not covered by any regulations at all, but it is new and mandatory. An independent control shall be introduced. It's hard to see that has something in common, that this will be a positive development. In any case, the Association of Home Producers states that this control will cost at least 500 million. DKK annually in the form of inspection costs and fees to municipalities, without any effect on them. Of course, the building builders are forced to cover this. We suggest that this be stopped, that one stop these plans. That's what we've got right on, but otherwise it's bad with opening up around that proposal. Then we also have proposals for regional regulation, where we believe that private individuals must be allowed to come on the track as an alternative to the municipal proposals for regional regulation. We also have a proposal to simplify laws, regulations and circulars to facilitate the development of land and housing. Finally, the chapter that goes on the public as a driver and a front image: the progress is positive that the public can be a driver, as long as this does not entail extra costs. We also say that central government must be very restrained by imposing on other public authorities to build in a special way. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, either alone or in conjunction with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2168	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2171	The case rapporteur went through this quite detailed, chapter by chapter, but I will take to heart the Workers' Party's comments on the big message. We are pleased that the government is presenting the first major report on building policy. I would like to highlight four areas of activity in which the government has announced a strong new building policy: building smarter and better quality construction will use increasingly less energy simplification of legislation and building processes a knowledge gap for the construction sector. As the representative of Mr Hagesetter was in the Chamber, this sector is quite fragmented. There are several laws and more departments involved. That's why it's so important that we see this in context. We have previously here in Stortinget treated the climate report, as the room part about energy building, we have today the building message, and we will receive a housing report next year. It is important that these are seen in the context, as we have done in the work on these two messages, and we will continue to do so in the submission of the housing notice. I point out that Norway will need a significant increase in housing in the years to come. The number of dwellings that are started has increased from approx. 15 000 per year at the bottom level in 1992 to more than 30 000 per year in the period 2005–2007. There has been a slight decline in construction in recent years. The working party sees it as necessary to facilitate an offensive housing policy, as the forecasts show that we need approx. 40000 new dwellings per year in the years ahead. There are challenges in the construction industry, including: are parts of the industry characterised by declining productivity and too many construction errors. The working party believes that some of the reasons for this are the focus on costs in the industry. It is usually the tender with the lowest bid that wins. Contracts are often divided into small sub-contracting prices, and the fact that a user uses a high degree of rent can be involved in overshadowing good planning, logistics and interaction. The Workers' Party believes it is important that we focus on these challenges in the further work to achieve a forward-looking building policy. This may include, inter alia: be done by emphasising quality, development of competences and cooperation. I believe the establishment of Building21 is a proper step on the way, and I think there is a need to increase the level of competence in the construction industry. The government will invite the construction industry to a broad cooperation on competence development through the Construction21 project. The Programme shall focus its efforts on R & D and innovation, education and systems for the development of competences and the dissemination of knowledge and experience. I would like to stress that it is important for employees and their organisations to be included in this work on Building21. The Labour Party supports the government, together with the Technical Council on Construction Engineering, and the Professional Training Cooperation Council improving the quality of initial training and ensuring the construction industry's skilled workforce, including: by the fact that more people take a diploma. In Building 21 the Government will be able to assess the continuing training systems in the construction fields within the framework of the applicable legislation and responsibilities. The Workers' Party also shows that the vocational schools will be able to play a role in a knowledge-based promise for the construction industry. The government indicates that universal design is a leading principle of the new Law on Planning and Building. The law helps to raise the quality of new buildings and ensure a minimum standard. Today is only 10 pst. of the country’s dwellings accessible to wheelchair users. Large parts of the block building are without a lift. The population projections of the central statistical agency suggest that approximately 630,000 people will be 80 years of age or older by 2060, a triple from today. It is important that the elderly in the future are given the opportunity to live at home as far as possible. New dwellings need to be built in a way adapted to the future population of the country. Government parties believe that provision should be made for the development and implementation of solutions that allow houses to become power suppliers. Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate has granted a general exemption to enable a consumer who has a surplus power in single hours to deliver it into the network. Parties to the Government are in favour of such a simplification of the legislation. There are currently few experiences of how the plus house legislation works in practice. I believe that further simplifications in the procedure need to be considered if the regulatory framework is not to function properly. The working party would stress that the solutions adopted for energy supply for construction will have an impact on security of supply and the climate. The government has a plan for an environmentally friendly construction sector where, inter alia: states that the government will reinforce the energy requirements of the building technical regulation for passive house level in 2015 and almost zero energy level in 2020. I look forward to seeing the studies on the socio-economic and health consequences and competence of the construction industry that will come soon. Government parties are asking the government to include a balance between energy solutions and building body requirements in the socio-economic investigations, such as in plus houses. We also ask the government to facilitate those who want to build new plus houses, or who want to make plus houses of existing buildings. We need simplification of construction, as the representative Hageseter was in the house. The government then also proposes simplifications in the construction process for so-called simple measures. Such measures represent 30-40 pst. of the mass of the construction object and approx. 15-20 pst. of the use of resources in the municipal construction process. This simplification will contribute to a high efficiency gain for municipalities. The Workers' Party also supports the proposal to simplify the rules and languages of the Law on Planning and Building, Regulations and Guidance. The Workers' Party looks forward to the end of the government's work to develop a strategy to establish the Construction Network. Here we will see if we can get full electronic construction handling in the municipalities by 2015 and integrate ConstructionSearch in BuildingNet. The Workers' Party agrees that by making conscious demands on its suppliers, state builders will contribute to a positive development in the construction industry. I refer to the objectives of future-oriented and cost-effective public building, public drive in the development of the construction industry, and increased public use of ICT to make the construction sector more efficient. It is important that public building projects should facilitate the transfer of knowledge and experience from projects to projects. It will be important in order to prevent construction errors, increase construction costs and decrease productivity that competence from a public-sector building project can be transferred to the next. I would point out that the lack of innovation is a weakness in the construction sector. We've seen it in universal design, where architects hesitate and say it's demanding and too expensive, but I think if you go to be a little bit innovative and think new, it's possible to find good solutions. Research confirms the importance of having demanding public customers who want innovation and innovation in the construction industry. The state must have a central role here when it builds. The Labour Party looks forward to the government developing a national R & D and innovation strategy for the construction sector and asks the government to assess the establishment of a permanent centre for R & D and innovation in the construction industry. Finally, as I started, I would like to point out that this field is fragmented, and also how important it is to work together in the different departments in order to bring together the legislation, so that it will be easier for those who are going to apply for construction. The most important thing is that we facilitate the construction of more buildings and that the pressure is placed on the supply of buildings and dwellings in Norway. I am looking forward to the government bringing the housing message in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2224	New figures from the Statistical Centre show that the production of the notification of declining productivity in the construction industry is not exactly as described. In general, the Communication does not address the impact of housing and building policy on prices, but refers to some extent to macroeconomic conditions such as economic and interest rate developments and the risk of long-term regulatory and building processes. Government requirements include both State objections, energy saving requirements and universal design requirements as price drivers. However, what is missing is an interest in critically looking at these price drivers and proposing changes that might dampen them. What we have recorded is that universal design requirements need to be evaluated in the light of further tightening. We have previously discussed in this room the violent extent of the bodies that may object or threaten the progress of construction matters with objections. Here again, it is time to remind ourselves that we believe that the institution of objection must be used as it is intended by law to be used: in order to safeguard national interests or significant regional interests. It shall not be a possible instrument for employees of public bodies who may disagree personally with a regulatory plan for other reasons. We also believe that the evaluation of universal design must include a dietary-benefit analysis. You have to look at whether you reap the benefits under which the scheme is marketed. The population and housing census of November 2001 showed that 64 pst. of the dwellings in five-storey or more-storey buildings with a lift. In low blocks with three and four floors have only 10 pst. of the dwellings lift. There is therefore no access to the lift for 240,000 blocks of dwellings. There are 400,000 people living here. The low percentage of accessible dwellings gives disabled persons poorer conditions in the housing market. The government says they want to stimulate hire schemes, but we are calling for more concrete measures. The right proposes to introduce a general and simplified access to building on a floor or, where appropriate, to use a ceiling area in order to finance a lift where it is technically fit for it in the block. We also want the House Bank to develop more systems for lifts and other accessibility measures in established residential buildings. We support the measures set out in the Communication throughout which emphasis is placed on training and skills enhancement. Otherwise, we notice – again – that the message is strongly influenced by the belief in rule management as a driving force for improvement, while the word ‘competition’ almost does not appear. The practical experience of life else is just that when very many people from different places sit and think about solving a problem, there will also be a breakthrough in technology, and there will be innovation. Innovation can also consist, as you know, of bringing together old solutions in a new way. It's not always there are technical inventions that drive innovation. We will thus facilitate innovation in a sector that is promoted better through final performance requirements, for example, what acceptable energy consumption should be, rather than detailed technical solutions. It is better to set tier requirements rather than detailed requirements in order to obtain alternative solutions. In the case of the country's own role as building owners, the maturity of public buildings has been mentioned. There is a high maintenance need in public buildings. One estimates that about one third of all municipal buildings have good or satisfactory maintenance standards, one third have partially unsatisfactory maintenance standards and one third have poor maintenance standards. The technical upgrade costs of all municipal and county buildings to normally good standards were assessed four years ago – we have not had more recent surveys – to be a total of 140 billion. kr. Similarly, one calculates at 60 pst. Norwegian health buildings have a good or satisfactory maintenance standard, 30 pst. is unsatisfactory and has 10 pst. has a bad standard. The cost of upgrading all health buildings in the country to normally good standards has been estimated to be between 20 and 30 billion. kr. There is also a certain problem description, but we do not see in the notification any means that the violent maintenance set-up, which is constantly accumulated, can be resumed. Once again, we should raise the question of whether we have a proper budgetary technique with regard to public fixed assets. In addition, we believe that the point of the state maintenance company is in stark contrast to what the state believes private owners and builders should do under the supervision of the state and the ‘clock’ drivers, while even if we have registered, there is no active policy for their own ownership of construction. Like the message, my batch has made a premise that the EU Building Directive on Nearly Zero Emission Houses can be fully implemented by 2020. It can then be natural to have required the level of the passive house – not the level of the passive house, but the level of the passive house – until 2015. Otherwise, the regulatory work to develop such standards remains. In the case of district heating connection, we propose that the individual owner of the house who can prove that he has filled a passive house or nearly zero emission house at the given time be entitled to exemption from district heating connection. The government is very pleased with Enova, and you can do that on your own. However, we note that Enova provides support for large-scale projects and only for energy efficiency improvement better than the existing technical regulation at all times. Therefore, Enova will not be helped to achieve the ambitious TEK10 targets and later what has been notified to be TEK15 and TEK20, and they will not assist existing dwellings, which will only be subject to limited technical regulations. The objectives of energy efficiency improvement in already-established private buildings will not be achieved unless positive instruments are put in place to achieve this. In this context, consideration should be given to extending Enova’s activities to stimulate private owners of smaller buildings. The government has a lot of assurances about simplification in the planning and construction process, and there are some interesting discussions about opportunities to skip plant stage, but unfortunately it ends up consistently in non-obligatory assessment points. In addition to what I have previously said about objections, we want simplification of the planning process, so that, at the choice of the municipality, you can introduce the principle of two levels of plan before construction. Otherwise, in this Chamber, we will repeat our proposal that the five-year limitation of the detailed plan/regulation plan be abolished. Finally, I would like to say a little about construction defects and damage. It is estimated that the cost of repairing such damage is large and amounts to between 4 and 12 billion. kr per year. After a number of deferrals, the requirement for independent control shall start from the coming new year, but so far the objections raised by the construction industry have not been resolved, namely the lack of control criteria and the lack of responsibility for errors made by the control officers, and the fact that the control of each paragraph becomes far-reaching and costly. In addition, there is an industry in the fight for skilled labour, as formal requirements for inspectors are that they have the same specialist competence as the executive specialist. The effect is that one shifts the competence from production to control. The right would like to be assessed to move from the principle of official control to the principle of insurance. In the case of compulsory construction-failure insurance, checks are carried out by the insurance company's inspectors, who assess whether they are to insure a construction project, thereby becoming the quality-providing producers who are rewarded over time for a low frequency of construction-failure, through lower premiums and any excesses. In addition, a problem is solved with whom to resolve the problem with the purchaser or user who has complained about the defect, and therefore must have a price reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2266	Two comments in the introduction: Gjermund Hagesetter says that we now get two messages that are not hanging together. It is a bit difficult to say before we have seen the second message, I would think. I definitely think we'll get two messages that are going to hang very well in hops, and that's good. So Michael Tetzschner says something that I think is very important about this with the productivity debate. It's nice that it gets a little nuanced. The construction industry is so often, so it must be at all difficult to measure productivity and productivity development. But the main point, which is the message and the setting, is that it's important to focus on productivity, and that everyone, not least the industry, needs to be interested in improving it. There are still parts of the industry that have a lot to pick up on better productivity. The majority, the Red-Green and Christian People's Party, highlight four areas where government is warning a powerful and new building policy: smarter construction, better quality, less energy use, simplification, and not least the need for a knowledge leap. I think there's something fundamental defensive when the Progress Party and the Right cannot stand behind these four points. Indeed, the Right Party and the Advance Party say that energy efficiency and universal design are fine, and it is even good to link some economic instruments to it, but the state must nevertheless not go further than that. It shall not impose or impose unnecessary detailed requirements. The right hand part and the progress part continue to write: ‘These members believe in the market and that the best developments take place on a voluntary basis [[...]] They say that less and simpler laws and regulations are needed – and that we have ‘too much and too bad a building policy’ – than offensive building policies. This is defensive. This is not in line with the signals I have received from the industry, not least in connection with various events and debates. But it's a little clarifying that the Right Party and the Advance Party also here want to abdicate and withdraw a little bit and let market forces decide what will happen in these important areas of energy efficiency, universal design, etc. The problem is price, and the reason is that we've just invested too much on energy efficiency and universal design, it might look like. I am pleased that I belong to the parliamentary basis of a government that, not least here today, shows that we actively want to care about this important area, which wants to develop an active building policy, which has the ambition both to increase the quality of what is being built and to promote the modernisation of an entire industry. Especially the last thing I think is very interesting, and I think the message is important in that context. Because here we have an exciting and important industry, and it's a rather accepted tool from public administrations into business development that you just come up with demands and expectations. They have to be predictable, they have to be long-term, and then the industry has to stretch to meet those expectations. This is one of the important contributions of public opinion to modern economic development, and that is exactly what I think the industry has asked for in many ways, and that the industry generally appreciates it now. I have been at a couple of conferences where it has been said directly that if the government had not found these requirements, then the industry had to have found them to stretch. Not least, this is important for an industry that will compete internationally and which is increasingly developing to become a global industry. Then you have to follow the developments that are taking place outside the borders of the country. And if there's something that really characterizes that development, it's not least the focus on quality, on universal design, and not least on energy savings. Legislation and controls are then necessary, and expertise is not least needed in all possible ways. It becomes particularly important that we all move towards an industry that is now so vulnerable to social dumping. Then we need to ensure the law and regulation, and we need to put expertise in all sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2288	Good functional construction is a prerequisite for a well-functioning society. Norway needs a sharp increase in housing construction. A total of 10,000 more dwellings per year must be built than is the case today if we are to meet demand. Increased provision of housing is important, but it is also essential that it is not at the expense of housing quality. We need more higher quality dwellings. I would like to mention in particular four key areas of future building policy: We need to build smarter and better quality. New and newly renovated buildings shall use less energy. Regulatory and construction processes shall be simplified. The construction sector needs a knowledge gap. Poor productivity developments in the construction industry increase construction costs. This is not because the craftsmen work slower, but that parts of the industry have too many defects, and that the same job therefore has to be done twice. A small group of unprofessional actors creates a picture that the whole industry is a little productive and not capable of its business. Priority must therefore be given to enhancing skills and improving recruitment. The government has announced that through Project Building 21 they will invite the construction industry to a broad cooperation on skills enhancement in the industry. The Programme shall focus on research, innovation and development of competences as well as knowledge dissemination and exchange of experience. For such a project to succeed, it is essential that employees and their organisations are included in the work from day one. Between 15 and 20 pst. by construction employees are non-resident labour, which may also affect the error rate — not because they are poorer carpenters, but because of language problems. It is also a major challenge that they do not have sufficient knowledge of Norwegian quality criteria, rules and standards. I hope project Construction 21 will lead to a systematic increase in competence and training in Norwegian quality requirements for all those who are going to work in the construction industry in Norway. The construction industry is particularly concerned about the recruitment of initial training where the number of applicants has fallen. The centre party is particularly concerned about the high drop-out in secondary education, in particular in practical subjects such as construction. I think for some reason that teaching is too theoretically obvious, and that it is not felt as relevant to the professional life. Training must start with the practical part, so that the most knowledgeable students, those with the best practical skills, experience mastering and progress. Then the theory has to come in the next round, and it has to be felt relevant to the subject. Furthermore, vocational schools are an important alternative to higher education, and they are important institutions for raising skills and specialisation. It is also important that there is a decentralised offer, so that you do not have to move away from the family in order to receive further training. The main objective is to significantly reduce the use of energy in buildings, with passive house levels by 2015. It will both save homeowners for future heating expenditure and be good environmental policy. At the same time, it gives us some challenges. Therefore, it is good that health and societal impacts should be investigated. For those who have lived on a furniture so cold that the glass of water on the night table was usually frozen midwinter, clear energy requirements in new buildings were warmly welcomed. Universal design is a guiding principle of the new Planning and Building Act. Today it's just ten pst. of the buildings arranged for persons with reduced mobility. The current construction code does not require the adjustment of the wheelchair to the dwelling, but to the availability of the entrance plane. Evil tongues will have it that the universal design requirement costs several hundred thousand per housing unit, and that is the main reason why it is built for few dwellings. The report from SINTEF Construction Research refutes these claims. It concludes that the cost increase due to universal design is around 40000 per housing unit, a small proportion of the total cost. The centre batch is concerned with the role of the forest in reducing CO2 emissions. The forest binds carbon when it grows, and it emits CO2 only when it decays. Wood from sustainable forestry is an environmentally friendly material with many uses. Three have so far been the most used in small houses, but in the last few years there have also been mention of commercial buildings in three. The production of wood product, compared to many other products, is low in energy demand and low in process emissions. In my opinion, wood should be preferred to construction material far more than it is today. Many people experience that the construction process is too complicated and unnecessary resource-demanding. I am therefore pleased that the government aims to reduce administrative burdens for both business and consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2332	The Christian People's Party is a driver of simplification, red tape, increased environmental focus and increased focus on universal design. Therefore, it is nice to see that the government is on the trail of a recognition that changes are needed in these areas. This message is good news for us who want more opportunities and fewer obstacles. At the same time, we know the alarming numbers. 28 000 dwellings are built; 38 000 dwellings are needed. We have a progressive population growth that makes last year's housing needs too small a year later. Housing prices are rising in excess of other price increases, both as a result of increased population growth and as a result of insufficient construction activity. The Christian People's Party believes that the government has led an underactive housing policy. The low level of housing will lead to a further uplifting of an already heated housing market, and there is a need for new measures to increase housing, while avoiding urban sprawl for climate, soil protection and social capital. Norway’s housing and urban development policy is not sustainable, and it is time to think new and smarter. The government is promoting red tape, universal design and environmental requirements as guidelines for a new building policy, and it fully agrees with the Christian People's Party. Who hasn't bothered about countless forms and requirements for simple changes? I would like to commend the government for seeing that red tape leads to increased efficiency and value creation. The Christian People's Party should only wish that the municipal minister also talk to his colleagues, so that other departments also put red tape on the agenda. The red tape can facilitate the construction, construction and maintenance of dwellings. This may lead to more people having the opportunity to move into a new or better home. The Christian People's Party believes that an owner-occupied dwelling in a safe living environment is one of the most important welfare goods in society. Although one in Norway has a high standard of living, there are still people without a fixed dwelling. The main objective of housing policy must therefore be to facilitate a stable housing market in which everyone is given the opportunity to live in owner-occupied dwellings. Having a place to live is fundamental to being able to function in today's society, and housing is one of the foundations of Norwegian welfare policy. On the environment side, there are many exciting things that are mentioned in the message. I would like to talk about what at least has fascinated me the most, which is what goes on at the plus house. Plus houses are – as more people here know – houses that produce more energy than they use themselves, and therefore provide renewable energy in areas where electricity is needed most. This means that we are already taking advantage of infrastructure that has already been developed and avoiding new natural interventions. This can change the way we use energy, and take a step closer to the zero-emission society. The construction sector today accounts for about 40 pst. of Norway’s energy consumption, but plus houses reverse this problem to become an important part of the solution. The Christian People's Party will therefore challenge the Council of States on what is needed to facilitate plus houses in Norway, as several of our neighbouring countries have done, and on what legislation, framework conditions, arrangements and rights need to be put in place to ensure that even plus houses can be built more widely in Norway. The Christian People's Party, together with the Advance Party and the Right, is involved in three proposals that go on indoor climates, that go on research around radon and cancer risk – not least a proposal where we ask the government to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to check the radon content of their house. I record that the government parties are not involved, although these are good proposals, good measures. I record that they are not in it, although this is actually also about people's health.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2353	First, I have to say that this is an important message with a theme that concerns a lot of people. Housing policies and how we shape housing policies around the country are, in fact, quite crucial in the lives of many people. We in the left also look forward to this housing message coming. I had hoped that maybe we could see them in context, but we actually have great expectations that there will also get some grip there. I just want to make a few points. Firstly, there is a great need for simplification in this field. There might be a greater need for differentiation. It is possible that there should have been a slightly different set of requirements in the Housing Act based on geographical parts of the country with different requirements for regulation. But we all get a lot of stories about meetings with the bureaucracy in this field. We have submitted a Document 8 proposal on the possibility of renting out owner-occupied dwellings and the rules related to it. We should have taken that up in the context of this too, but it's possible we'll get back to it. There were many good examples of the bureaucracy people meet in this field. We therefore agree with the comments made by the Right and the Advance Party regarding the review of the regulations and cleaning in this field. I think it is important to have laws and rules on citizens – which citizens can deal with. But most of us know that to get through in this field, it's almost only professional people who understand the system, and who understand how to deal with all the rules that exist. I think you should have a system so that ordinary citizens can also understand how planning and building laws, rules for renting and everything like that work. One of the most important parts of this message, which I think is some of the most important challenges, is also energy page – building smarter. I am very pleased that the climate agreement set a good target for more energy-friendly houses. But what's in the message is just old actions. We in the Left believe that new measures are needed to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. That is why we have proposed a tax deduction scheme of up to NOK 50 000 for energy saving measures in owner-occupied dwellings. That's what we think we'd been very focused on, it seems we'd been simple and unbureaucratic to implement, and that would have given us tax incentives to just stretch towards a more climate-friendly way of living. There is also a major defect in the message that we do not find anything about the plus houses and all the possibilities of thinking about house construction in other ways. Finally, I would like to point out that government's ambitions regarding universal design are only getting weaker and weaker and disappearing in relation to the great ambitions that we had when we discussed this earlier in Stortinget. The left has spent money in its alternative state budget to get more universal design in school buildings, but this is a field where we are looking for, also on the public side. Then I just want to inform you that we in the Left support the proposals No. 1 to 6 and proposal No. 11 when we're going to vote in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2369	The government has just sent out the first message about building policy. I am pleased that she has been positively received in the construction industry. It is also gratifying that the committee is in favour of the main thrust of this message. The title of the message gives the main message: Good Building for a Better Society. The quality of building us cages means a lot for each of us in everyday life. At the same time, good construction is a prerequisite for a well-functioning society. How we build has a major impact on the environment and resource use, health, value creation and economy. It's estimated that Norwegian barley is worth six billion dollars in total. These are big values that we have to manage wisely. One of the main goals of the government is to build with quality. It is a good investment to invest in high-tech and low-energy construction. Building should be accessible and well-designed architecturally. At the same time, I agree with the Committee that quantity is important – we have to build more! We are becoming more and more, and we have strong growth in the demand for buildings, special dwellings. This has been a huge increase in prices in recent years. This requires an offensive policy that helps to increase the take-up of buildings and buildings. I look forward to producing a separate message about housing policy next year, where housing construction is a central theme. In the Building Communication, the government has presented a holistic and powerful building policy. I now want to draw out three of the areas where we have announced new policies. It shall be payable: simplification of eco-friendly and energy-efficient business skills. I want to make visible that the law of planning and building law is a yes-law. Those who want to build on their own land in accordance with the regulatory plan should be able to do so without asking the municipality for law. The individual must be able to take greater responsibility for compliance. This will, of course, apply to the simpler measures; larger buildings will have to be applied for. Such a change would mean less seizures of municipal resources — and fewer complaints. I want to make the laws and language usage easier and provide a smaller basis for municipal judgement that is not necessary. There are currently considerable differences between municipalities in the use of the legislation, and we will reduce the differences in handling. I want to strengthen the use of ICT in construction industry and construction management. The Building Quality Directorate is now preparing a so-called BuildingNet, which is a platform for the industry and municipalities. ConstructionNet should make it possible with full electronic handling of construction equipment in municipalities in 2015. It shall keep records of construction for maintenance and conversion purposes, use of building information models for quality assurance and control purposes, and provide an overview of all information needed by the developer. In the building message, we recommend simplifying the planning processes. This will allow us to manage construction projects more quickly and efficiently, primarily in order to increase building construction. This comes to us in the big news of housing policy. I can underline what others have said here, the two messages should definitely hang together. We need to reduce the amount of time government powers spend on countersigns. I would like a simpler transition between detailed plans and construction projects to allow developers to skip new planning processes when it is necessary to adjust the construction plans. I also want a clearer framework for how long it's going to take to deal with a housing plan. In the message the government has shown a clear ambition to move the construction industry in a more efficient direction. We must have good constructions that burden the environment as much as possible. Energy efficiency is the building quality that got the most attention in the message. The most environmentally friendly energy is the one that is not used, so reducing energy use in buildings is an important environmental measure. The government is busy building its total environmental load. We need to see energy use, materials and construction waste in a holistic context. Construction must be energy-efficient and environmentally friendly. But construction should primarily work well and be places where we feel that we belong. Thus, a resilient building policy is also concerned with architecture and building practices, new security challenges when the climate is changed and flooded and sluggish and sluggish houses and homes, indoor climates, health and environmental hazardous substances in building materials, and the management of building waste and good recycling procedures. Without a collective, motivated, offensive and competent construction industry, the government's building policy will have little effect. We have a high level of construction competence in Norway, but knowledge is not being used properly enough. Too many design and practical construction errors are made. This costs the individual homeowners and society dearly. At the same time, productivity developments in construction industries are alarmingly low. Research shows that the least efficient projects use twice as much resources as the most effective in building identical buildings. Increased skills are needed to reverse developments and achieve the objectives of better construction. Knowledge must also be translated into practice by the individual craftsman, in all the country's construction sites and by construction and bus operators. The government has thus invited the construction industry and other key actors to a broad cooperation on a knowledge lift that allows us to build for the 21st century. Betsinga has us called Bygg21.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2419	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2422	Now it is announced in this message that a requirement for passive house level will be introduced in two years – from 2015. We know little about passive houses. On question No. 9, from the case spokesman, the Council of State answers that it is ‘lowly likely’ that power breakage or temporary technical faults in passive houses could cause some health damage. Now it is such that of course ‘small probability’ results in a certain probability. I could imagine that the council replied: What health damage do we risk with passive homes? How will this affect asthmatics and allergies? What health damage is one of the main risks?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2429	In passive houses one, as in other houses, can open both doors and windows and one can air. So building is so dense that they're harmful to health, they're very overdrive. At the same time, one should, of course, have a system that keeps the heat going. They're more dense than other houses. The government has been very clear that the health aspects of passive houses should be an important part of the distribution that we are now going to make, when we are going to figure out the level of passive houses in 2015. I particularly mention it with airy and open windows, because it has our theme in this room before. I think that the health aspects of passive houses might have been somewhat exaggerated in relation to what we hear from those who live in such houses today, and there's actually a lot of people who do it already.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2438	Now it's so that "small probability" means there's a certain risk. I'm aware that one can have windows and doors open, but if one is lying on a bedroom with windows and doors again, and the electricity fails, so the power goes, or there is a computer error that causes one to not get airing while one is asleep, the question is, how does this affect health, and will this pose a health risk? That's the question. I also want to say that I think it is very good that a deal is done with health risks, but one should have done so before a decision is taken on the introduction of a passive house. I actually thought it would go backwards into the future when one does it this way. My question is still: What kind of health damage can we risk if the current goes or there are technical faults in the passive housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2447	The reason why it says what it does is that we simply don't know about any health risks. But it's to be handed out by people other than me, by those who have professional skills, if there's such a risk. If we had known about that risk today, we would have written it into the message. But we don't want to ignore it either. It would be sad – as we are now going to settle the matter until 2015 – if it turned out that someone would find such a thing, but I am not aware of such a health risk today. Even if I sleep with open windows, almost no matter the weather and wind, there are those who sleep with both closed doors and windows without thereby taking any damage to either body or soul of it. To me it sounds like an exaggeration from the Progress Party's side, but we keep a little bit of an opening here, because if there's such a risk, at least he's going to be on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2454	I mentioned in my main post that the message probably had some interesting references to reasoning around regulation simplification. But after these additions, there was nothing more of it. It ran into the sand, because it's very little concrete. I thought I would give the council the opportunity to be something more concrete. My question to the Council of State thus becomes whether she agrees with me that we could manage without a start-up permit, at least where a framework permit has been granted in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2463	I thought it was voiced by the representative Tetzschner to say that at least there are references to good reasoning in the message. I thank you for that. I think we have the same intention. I think we're some about what the goal here is, that it's going to be easier for both you and me to ask for a house or an apartment, for those who are going to build, and therefore for the municipalities that get less pressure and can concentrate on the larger issues that require community care. I come with a housing message in the new year. There I'm going to take further action when it comes to simplification. I get a lot of questions from people who expect a date for the different fields. I am also working on the regulations for what is included in this message. When it concerns the specific question, I would have included it in the message if I was sure that was what I meant. We will also take it into account in the work we are now going to do to the housing message.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2474	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2477	This is a really good message. It has been well received in the construction industry, well received by those who are occupied with housing and by those who are concerned with the environment. On Twitter you can read messages from those who follow this debate. Counsellor at Zero, Ida Spjelkavik, just wrote that she is spreading the champagne for the comment on the plus house. It's nice. Building smarter and better quality is important. Is it really going to be against that? Building so that we use less energy is right and important. Is it going to be against that? A knowledge gap for the construction sector is great. Simplification of legislation and building processes is important. Building policy and housing policy belong together. The government has announced a big deal about housing policy in the new year. The debate on housing policy is important. The challenges are great, but there is also a need to put things in perspective. Housing prices have been rising for a long time, and we see that many people are striving to establish themselves in owner-occupied housing. At the same time, there is reason to believe that the average age at initial establishment is going down. The Norwegian housing market mainly works well. About 80 pst. of us live in a dwelling we own, and most Norwegian dwellings are well maintained and of good quality. The Labour Party is concerned that more people are falling outside, but we will warn against the idea that there is a simple solution – that the problems will only be solved if you do not take into account hedged Hubro, reduce the tasks of the county council, eliminate universal design requirements, conduct a more relaxed fiscal policy or remove the Fire and Explosion Protection Act or several of the other laws that the Hagesets representative has encroached on in his post. Norway's population is growing rapidly. Recently we passed five million, and the SSB expects us to be six million in 2029. High population growth and high housing prices should, according to usual economic theory, lead to a faster increase in housing construction. That it doesn't happen has a lot of explanations. The main problem lies on the offer side. It is built for few dwellings. Trends in the economy and the financial crisis of 2007 are part of the explanation. The construction fell at the same time as access to capital for the builders decreased. Production capacity in the construction industry is another part of the explanation. We also know that land access and competition for land for other purposes are important. The same has to do with the reduction of municipal land companies and the deregulation of the rental market. We also know that the length of regulatory processes, order regulations and state objections affect the supply side. If the picture is to be complete, we also need to understand the factors affecting the demand side of the housing market. The vast majority of Norwegian housing buyers have made the economy pay more and more for the dwelling. This is about basic good things like income growth, but also about low unemployment and that relatively few fall completely outside the housing market. Furthermore, favourable tax rules on housing, low interest rates and bank lending practices are important. It is important that we take the challenges seriously, but it is also important that we do not paint black. New data from the SSB show that in the second quarter of 2012, compared to the second quarter of 2011, 12 pst were started. several dwellings and that the construction production was almost 6 pst. higher It's going the right way. From a floor level in 1992, when 15 000 dwellings were completed, housing production increased to more than 30 000 between 2005 and 2007. In 2008, as a result of the international financial crisis, we experienced a decrease of about 10%. Twenty thousand. However, the decline was short-lived and in 2011 almost 28 000 dwellings were started. Forecasts for 2012 and 2013 suggest a similar level of construction. That's good, but not enough. The state must ensure good framework conditions, but the municipalities must also do their part of the job. It is about ensuring good planning and construction processes, land and land policies and ensuring that the pace of housing construction does not stop because there is not enough land ready for construction. We are today adopting significant simplification measures that will reduce the use of time and money in construction projects in municipalities, and we are betting on quality, climate and knowledge. It is important — and difficult to understand — that someone can oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2503	Housing prices have been a hot topic for debate lately. There are many who are concerned about the price rise and reinforced building requirements are identified by several as an important cause. That's right, the building requirements have been tightened. Among other things, we have stricter requirements for wet rooms, electrical installations, energy and universal design. These requirements have come for a reason: in Norway, many houses are burning, with the associated fatal consequences in terms of deaths. Therefore, requirements for electrical installations have been tightened. There have been large additional costs as a result of poor work with wet rooms. Therefore, the requirements have been tightened up. Dwellings account for about one third of the electricity consumption here in the country. Strengthening and reducing electricity consumption are therefore an important contribution to reducing climate change emissions. All of this is justified by policy objectives and will result in higher costs than without stricter requirements. It's essentially accepted. For some it still seems that the requirements for universal design are the largest thorn in the eye, especially among the builders of dwellings. Among other things, representatives of OBOS and Selvog Bolig have been attacked by what they consider to be excessive demands and, in their opinion, a significant cost driver for new buildings. I'm not going to be bastant about whether the universal design requirements are too strict or too ambitious today. My concern, however, is to draw up some perspectives that I think these representatives of the construction industry are ignoring and that, in my opinion, are drowning in the public debate. Let me state that the universal design requirement is politically justified. This government is based on the idea that all humans are born free, unique and inviolable. Through our policies, we should contribute to the freedom of individuals. Our policies must reflect and respect diversity. Everyone should have equal opportunities regardless of the family background, where you come from, gender, function, religion or sexual orientation. Strong community is the best foundation on which individuals can build their life projects. There are many examples of loss of planning where people forgot to take into account poor mindsets, hearing impairments or mobility problems. Each one is not a problem. The problem, however, is that when there is a system in the losers, there is no longer any loss. The fact that one constantly forgets to take into account the breadth of human variation becomes part of our social structure. When the breadth of human variation is constantly forgotten, it is in practice part of our society's value system. There are values in use. The phenomenon also has a more psychosocial side: When people experience that the fact that they should participate in the same way as others is constantly forgotten, they will at the same time hear a story about themselves – about deviations, about value, about who they are, and that they are a burden on their environment. The recommendations of the UN standard rule 5, Availability, state: «Accessibility of dwellings, buildings and outdoor areas is essential for the participation and equality of people with disabilities.» Today there are some 770,000 disabled people in Norway. These are people with different disabilities, who have different requirements for the design of housing, the outdoor environment and for housing-related services. In the case of housing, it may be relevant to place different disabilities in different groups: disability, climatic and environmental handicaps such as asthma, allergy and lung disease, and oriental impairments such as visually impaired, hearing impaired and cognitively disabled. Universal design takes a short look at a design that works inclusive by taking into account different user assumptions. Concepts that are very often attributed to an equivalent content are universal design, including design and design for all. Right here is the key to keeping costs down. Planning and smart and innovative solutions make it possible to find universal solutions, including for small apartments. With the demographic developments we see in Norway today, it is a political challenge to facilitate the widest possible use of their own housing. Then also universal design will be an important contribution, not only to those who are disabled today, or who have challenges in other ways, it will also help us all to live at home with ourselves for as long as possible. If we're going to take the seven universal design principles seriously, we'll also see that it not only serves people with disabilities. It could give us all huge gains. Whether we walk, sit in a wheelchair, are visually impaired, lie in a baby carriage, or have other major or less prominent human features with us. Universal design is just that – a design for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2535	On a walk that I had this weekend, I went through a building field where they were about to introduce new buildings. There I met a young builder who stood and worked and worked on what was to become his future dwelling. I asked him how it went, if he could get this done, and if it was very economical. He replied that all his own efforts went with financing a project and an order that was completely unnecessary. I asked him what he was thinking about, and he replied that the politicians – in their wisdom – have ordered housebuilders to place radon barriers on an area where there is no registered radon at all. Nevertheless, the builder had to have this radon barrier in place. The alternative might have been for the housebuilder to take a radon check, which costs a couple hundred dollars, but instead he had to put in a radon bar that costs $90,000. One might wonder whether this is Norwegian housing policy at its best, or whether it is future-oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2540	I record that the debate on passive houses, the passive house standard and the objectives of limiting energy consumption in Norwegian buildings are moving far into the climate debate. I find it strange that every time you can use the term ‘climate policy’ and also quality label proposals with ‘climate’, it overrides all other considerations. It has been well and thoroughly demonstrated that a passive house standard will lead to increased costs and costs for the country’s inhabitants in the construction of new houses. Then it becomes a little strange that you have a climate debate and a passive house debate that goes all the way outside of what is the big – perhaps the biggest – challenge of housing policy, what is just cost, and that many young people are outside the housing market and have problems getting into the housing market. In spite of this, you're willing to make it even more expensive to step in and become self-owner. It's completely incomprehensible to me. One hand doesn't see what the other hand is doing. You argue from the climate, and then you're all right. Then, like all other counter-arguments, can be set aside. In Norway, we use a lot of electric heating, but we are the country in Europe that has the most renewable energy. The heating you have via the mains power source – whether it is heat pumps or panel furnaces – comes from clean, good, Norwegian hydropower. No kind of CO2 emissions are associated with that electricity generation. Thus, despite this knowledge, it is totally unreasonable to be willing to introduce a standard that is going to be a price driver in the housing market. I would also like to stress that there are quite a number of construction companies that have pointed out some technical challenges, not with regard to the component requirements, although they are going to be a price driver in themselves, but they point out that in some contexts – especially in North Norway – this will be relatively challenging. With this standard, you'd like to, for example, has moisture problems, in principle being forced to put a cloth and a whole tent around the house to be built. This isn't very thoughtful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2550	I'm just going to comfort the representative Amundsen that the Progress Party's possible future government partner Right has criticized the message that it is not talking about plus houses to a greater extent. So the picture is even worse than what Amundsen described from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2555	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2580	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to four lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties from each group, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2591	2013 is the last fiscal year of the second period of red-green government. Today’s debate, in addition to discussing the budget for the next year, gives the opportunity to look back on the years that have been under the current policy direction, and on the political developments in energy and environmental policy in these years. Evolution has been formidable. Under the red-green government, in recent years, we have ever had the biggest investment in renewable energy production, energy conversion and energy efficiency. Targeted efforts have achieved a significant increase in power generation, mainly from water, but also from wind power. By introducing the green certificates, we will reach even further. Together with Sweden, we have a measure of 26.4 TWh. At the same time, there has been a significant energy conversion. We have reintroduced forest policies with support for crop rotation and forest-based pesticides and thus stimulated more biomass and also more waste into the heating sector through district and nearby heating plants. New requirements for buildings both in 2007 and 2010 provide a significant energy efficiency improvement in construction, with additional reinforcement signals in this area in the future. The new renewable energy needs infrastructure. Increased focus on the construction of electricity networks is necessary, and that work is well under way. The large amounts of renewable energy allow fossil energy use to be replaced in heating, in transport and on the base, and to build on the Norwegian power-processing industry. New industries, such as data storage, can grow as a result of favourable geographical location with good access to short-range renewable energy at affordable prices. The government is taking Norway's important steps further on the bridge from the fossil to the renewable energy community. It also has the potential, as I have mentioned, to create great values – i.e. a good industrial policy – but perhaps the most important of all is that it is good for the environment. When international climate negotiations are difficult, failing in our own state council, Norway is taking important steps on the way home. Norwegian climate policy under the red-green government – and anchoring in this room through two climate agreements – is between the most ambitious in the world. At the same time, with the exploitation of known resources to produce clean energy, the government has, over the years, invested heavily in research and development. Norway has pilots who are unique in the world's throes on floating wind power, salt power plants, and power from tides. Research on immature renewable energy technologies, CO2 capture and storage continues. Through a high level also of petroleum straight research, we contribute to the reduction of emissions in Norwegian petroleum industry in addition and to a significant increase in the efficiency of our reservoirs. Through the new fund alerting in the climate notification, we strengthen Norwegian industry's environmental competitive advantage. Through Enova and Transnova, we strengthen climate-related research and development in energy efficiency and transport. The width and strength of research in the energy and climate fields under this government is beyond what has ever been provided by a Norwegian government. The government has also taken important steps in the field of nature protection policy. Local security management means the decentralisation of power and administration closer to citizens and closer to experience-based knowledge. And it works! A protection policy has been implemented in a few years, ranging from largely compulsory, state-led protection to mainly voluntary protection – a major focus shift to follow-up of already existing protection areas instead of protecting new ones. The difference in coastal zone management is another important grip that we're excited about in the Center Party. The centre party believes that the road should continue along the same course as the three government parties have set out: strengthening efforts to achieve more renewable energy, using it for green industry policies, replacing fossil energy at home and abroad, further focus on research and development to move further on the path towards the renewable energy society, and more decentralised and locally anchored natural management. Debates in this room over the last few years have not shown that the opposition represents any collective alternatives to this policy course. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee and the Committee Secretary for their work on this part of the State budget, and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2623	In a note, the government's majority points to a ‘Highly focus on ensuring an efficient, robust and environmentally friendly energy supply in Norway’. And they think it's important that ‘wide deployment of renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and continued strength of transmission links’. «The hydropower has largely supplied us with the electricity that Norway benefits from the mainland,» but «the last few years have shown us that there is still a need to secure the energy supply.» Despite this clarification of securing energy supply, the Minister of Energy still says no to the Minister of Energy, despite the fact that very many think this is necessary. Coordination is needed in terms of energy production, supply networks, external wiring, winds, wave power, industrial use of gas, etc. There are many examples of the need. LO thinks it, NHO thinks it, Energy Norway thinks it and all the environmental organisations believe it. What, then, does the Centre Party and the Minister for Energy refuse to put in place an overarching energy sector plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2640	There are probably those who say no to the Minister of Energy, but the Minister of Energy is probably not one of them, but they exist enough. So I assume it was the energy message that was the theme here. Throughout this period of government, it has been the bets on the areas where the opposition's demand is to be shown in an energy message. I think it's obvious -- I've said it before in this room -- how a collective opposition does not have the power to gather about anything other than to ask for messages and more paper from the government. So I want to challenge the representative Grimstad here, but also other representatives from the opposition in the Chamber: in this debate, let's get the political alternatives between the sitting government parties' environmental and energy policies and the policy that one might get if the people choose another government next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2647	I have a slightly more local question: In Sogn and Fjordne, there have been a number of issues in recent years that have created anger and frustration against authorities from many people, including the local authorities. the anchor operation of the new 420 kV line between Ørskog and Sogndal. The move of the force line has resulted in a debt of camaraderie and the differential treatment of party members of the Centre Party. The last thing is government authorities' approval of digging over the river Nausta, where Statnett has been granted free permission to dig over the river, despite the fact that the river is a protected watercourse. Private individuals would have no doubt been given a powerful indication with the same authorities if they had done the same thing. The central party is in a government responsible for this, and the central party has a government council that has its share of responsibility. My question is, isn't it embarrassing for central party politicians from Sogn and Fjordane to witness the root of party members, not least the distrust that is against the party in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2654	I'm actually quite proud to be a part of a government that for the first time bets and gets these lines built, even if it upsets many places, even in my own state. But one place these lines have to go. And I disagree with the criticisms made by the representative, Mr Soldemeal. The oil and energy minister has done good for the process of concessional giving to a new 420 kV line through Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal, and I have no reason to believe that that process has not been tidy and good. This has been handled by the Council of State. When it comes to what Statnets and others do as part of the construction of this line, relate to what are laws and rules in society, I assume that they adhere to the rules that other power companies have to adhere to when carrying out these lines. And I haven't in any way understood it so that one of these shouldn't stick to the same rules that otherwise apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2661	I would like to take up the committee leader's challenge with regard to different government options, because we have a great ambition to succeed in setting up a new government. But as the representative is familiar with, it's not like there's only one alternative on one side and one on the other. There are some of us who are interested in raising the centre of Norwegian politics, and we have a goal of getting the most center/right-regiering in place, and I think we have good reasons to succeed with that. To go back to the representative Grimstad's question, which went on an energy message, I would remind the committee leader that there has been a tradition of running an energy message every period – until the red-green took over. The Minister of Energy at the time, Terje Riis-Johansen, used a line of reasoning that one had to put in place a big and important milestone before the message could come. The current Minister of Energy says that we have had the big and important milestones – and therefore we do not need an energy message. But I will challenge the chairman of the committee: how does he think it is? Is he comfortable with the fact that such an important thing as the overall energy policy is only discussed at the top of the government rather than that one gets an overall plan, so that one can see the whole and discuss it here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2670	Let me first say that the connection to the central policy seems to me to be not quite real, because the central policy will be expressed through the content of the policy, not whether there are or not messages about something from the government. But even though the visit was made from the Central Comrade Christian People's Party – we are happy with our friends in the center – the most important thing for the Center Party is the policy that we have committed ourselves to towards our own electorate. It has been said to be heavier, and therefore we have entered into a red-green government cooperation where we have a great impact on important centre policies. We believe that today, after seven years, we see that it has been a success. We have had too much of the policy that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have been bringing together in this Chamber over the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2675	The representative Sande mentioned in his speech that he was concerned with nature protection. So am I. At the same time, we know that changes have been made in the route from Ørskog to Sogndal, which means that the route has been moved from a valley that is not a nature reserve to a valley that has a nature reserve. I refer then to the move from Myklebustdalen to Førdedalen. What does the representative Sande think about a 420 kV line coming through a nature reserve?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2681	Both of these valleys are nice valleys, and I think Right knows this very well, because at an earlier point in time, the Right has asked yourself questions in the Stortinge about how to avoid the valley in which no line was put. In this way, the line is a little bit weird. But what I understand is that the plan of running this line is that, in parallel with the transmission of it through the nature reserve, lines that are currently walking in the nature reserve are wired, so that it does not increase the load on this reserve. I'm going to do some rest, because I'm not familiar with all the details of this concession, but that's how I understand it. In this way one achieves not to increase the burden on the nature reserve to a greater extent than it already is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2686	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2689	The budget we are discussing today represents a continuation of the government's significant commitment in both areas. Both departments' work is about how to use nature around us, and how to take care of natural diversity and climate, while at the same time taking society further by investing in energy and industrial development. The core of the Workers' Party's energy policy is that through the development of new production, investment in infrastructure and industrial solutions, we facilitate secure, stable and predictable access to energy. In this way, we guarantee the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and lay the basis for new industrial activities. The energy sector represents both an important input into all industrial activities and a very important industry in itself. Energy policy and the development of Norway as an energy nation is a major concern of the government since it took over seven years ago. The red-green government has really delivered the goods in energy policy: From 2006 to 2011, we have put into operation or authorised wind and hydroelectric or district heating projects equivalent to 18 TWh per year. We've doubled the NVE's concessional capacity. The value creation of the power industry in the supply industry is on the rise. In 2010, the value was 7.3 billion. kr. The government strengthens efforts related to domestic energy supply. The total appropriations allocated to NVE other than flood and emergency prevention have more than doubled from 2005 to 2012. The development of the power grid provides ground for economic growth and jobs throughout the country. Together with the investment in renewable energy, we create activity throughout the country. Also in the development of oil and gas, the government has taken important steps. The number of operators on the Norwegian base has never been greater, and the level of investment is high. The development of the Norwegian energy sector, both petroleum and hydropower, is the history of long-term, targeted political governance. Petroleum resources on Norwegian soil have provided the basis for a highly competent and internationally competitive oil and gas industry. Both oil companies, supplier industries, research and education institutions and skilled professionals at all levels have jointly found solutions to the challenges of the sea. Favourable framework conditions for research and technological development have been an important prerequisite. Strong emphasis on health, environment and safety and good and orderly working and pay conditions have been important prerequisites and contributions to the success of petroleum activity on Norwegian soil. We shall continue to impose strict health, environmental and safety requirements on the petroleum industry. History has shown us that it is fine to operate a profitable oil and gas extraction within strict guidelines and requirements. As part of the government's climate policy, solutions are to be explored forcefully from land in all new fields, and our aim is to increase the use of force from land. The government is heavily committed to renewable energy, climate technology, energy efficiency improvement and international climate policy. A good climate policy requires offensive efforts both at home and abroad. An important international element is the government's commitment to the climate and forest initiative. This has long been a cross-political agreement in Norway, but I note that the Progress Party and the Right agree on a large cut in this scheme. The Climate and Forest Initiative is an effective climate action with a good development profile. It is surprising and sad that the Progress Party has brought with it the Right on such a big cut in the bet. As Today’s Business said – so well, I think – on Saturday: “Rights have gone wild in the rainforest.” What they want here would be the same as if an employer had not paid a month if the employee had not used up his salary from the last month. For the government, it has been important to ensure public ownership of our power resources. I am not surprised that one sees that both the Progress Party and the Right in their programme proposals challenge what is the people's resources and want to hand it over to private hands – this is good, old-fashioned right-wing policy. We have put forward a new law on outdoors that strengthens the rights of all persons. The interaction reform focuses on public health in the new legislation. We are now proposing a 20-million bet on outdoors and public health. kr. It's a good bet that people can use our nature to get better health than the Norwegian population is about to get. The budget we are discussing now represents a continued commitment to the long lines of Norwegian energy and environmental policy. We are focusing on an energy, climate and environmental policy that provides a basis for profits for the community and for economic development, and we safeguard the nature and climate around us. We follow up the climate agreement and take Norway further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2730	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2733	Norwegian petroleum policy has been relatively firm in the sense that we have known what we were going to do. In the case of oil drilling and impact assessment on the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja areas and the areas outside there, as well as Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II, it has been established that this ageing period should not be initiated. What was surprising, however, was that at a conference held in Svolvær on 23 November, Ola Borten Moe, also peaced Lofoten, the Westphalian and Senja for the next major period. It's kind of interesting, and I don't know who he said on behalf of. But it would have been very good to get ready from the Labour Party: if you were to get a Soria Moria III – something I don't have much faith in is going to happen – would you be at peace with Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja and the areas outside? In that case, it will be a rather dramatic conversion of what is communicated by the representatives of North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2740	Now I have much greater faith than the representative Amundsen that it is possible to get to a Soria Moria III, when I see what we've got into Soria Moria I and II. Then it's like everyone, as the representative himself points out, has known that the red-green government was going to leave the Lofoten and the Westphalian. So this government is making a wise thing, and that's that it's going to acquire knowledge. We've acquired that knowledge. The ink has hardly dried enough on the paper, and we are going through this carefully. It does all three red-green parts. When the Council of State spoke out in Svolvær, I perceived that the Council of State was speaking on behalf of the Centre Party. We're in a government that has an adopted policy. What we want to do for ourselves in the Workers' Party is to discuss internally the knowledge report we have received on the table. Then that discussion at our 2013 national meeting will turn into what the Workers' Party is going to think about the Lofoten and the Vestral.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2752	I noticed that the representative Sund did not talk much about increased oil extraction in existing fields. I understand that when I see what this government has done in these nearly eight years and what is in the budget in terms of the key factors we know will have an impact on the rate of recovery. There are increases of 4.1 pst. in petroleum research, 3,3 pst. to Petoro and 3 pst. to the Directorate of Oil. At best, when we take into account wage and price increases, we talk about continuing the level of the day next year. So my question to the representative Sund is, when is the Workers' Party going to go from party speakers to actually deliver something that results in terms of increased extraction rate? Is it like this that we have to have a new government in place to really get hold of that monster when it comes to bringing up the extraction rate in existing fields on the socket?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2757	I'm very happy that the Workers' Party is in a government where we don't have to hold parties and talk in large words, but where we actually work every day for what we have as a goal, namely that we both need jobs across the country and that we need to have business that works. If there's one area I'm incredibly proud that we've really done it in terms of the environment, it's in the petroleum sector. We've had a goal of strengthening petroleum research, and we've done it. We've been focusing on increased extraction to a very, very large extent. The Council of State did not come long ago and notified the Stortinget that a centre for increased extraction should be set up. We also have programmes at Petromax and at Demo 2000, and we have also said that we should set up a research centre to look at the technological challenges in the north. So I do not share Meling's view that this government has done nothing. On the contrary, I am proud of what we have been able to do in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2762	I want to keep going in the same track. I think we can be very proud of Norwegian oil industry – the work they do and the technology they develop. The authorities – and the Christian People’s Party – are very concerned that we should impose strict environmental requirements and protect the most vulnerable areas. Then the question of increased extraction rates – the extraction of more of the already existing fields – is very important. An area that is important will be Petoro. We want a reinforcement there. Today, therefore, there is a proposal from the opposition that it should be financed directly from the cash flow. It would give you greater flexibility. I think 1 pst. increased extraction rate will be equal to 250 billion kr or something like that – at least large sums. So economically, if we succeed more, it will pay off. Why will the Workers' Party not give them the opportunity to increase funding as needed rather than on the basis of the annual budget appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2769	I just want to first comment on this with increased extraction. This government and the Workers' Party have been enormously concerned with increased extraction. There are billions of dollars on the bottom of the ocean that we want to get up, because it will benefit the community – something we are extra busy about. That's why we're doing what we're doing. We have prioritised – perhaps not as high as the representative wanted us to do – but we have prioritised petroleum research, and we have now also prioritised establishing our own centre for increased extraction. We've worked hard every year to strengthen Petoro. We do not agree that they should follow the cash flow, but we agree that they should be strengthened. We've done this because they manage the state's share on the socket and take good care of it. We are absolutely sure that with the strengthening we have now given, they will also provide it in an even better way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2775	The representative Sund took up power from country to Norwegian base — electrification of the socket — and presented it as an important contribution to climate policy. It's possible I'm thin, but I'd like to explain how this actually works. If we pump up gas on a Norwegian base, it will send it to Europe and it will be burned by it, or if we take a small part of it and burn off to produce electricity used on the platforms – what difference does it make if global CO2 emissions are burned off in Germany or Norway? Globally, this is a zero sum game. Nevertheless, there is a willingness to use quite large sums to implement this measure. Can the representative explain to me whether the rationale of such a measure is different from moving emissions between countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2785	There is a lot that separates the representative Amundsen and me, but there is one thing that divides us two, namely that I believe that one of the greatest challenges facing the world today is the climate challenges. We are looking with a lamp and looking for measures we believe will work to bring down the climate emissions. One of the measures is to electrify parts of the socket where it is socio-economic to do so. I was with the representative Amundsen in Qatar, and when his contribution to the climate debate was going into today's business and saying that CO2 is something you have snow-headed to introduce Marxism, I understand that the representative Amundsen does not understand why we are so persistently working to find different measures in different areas to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The only thing I think the representative Amundsen was right in his DN post is that Marx is actually dead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2795	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2798	It's great that we in this room have been told that Marx is dead. I hope it's not just about his physical death, but that his ideas are also dead – although there may be traces of them in today's government. I want to take an optimistic starting point. Norway as a petroleum nation is doing something very important for the world. We produce energy, and energy is essential to human development. It is important to lift people out of poverty, to create good societies, for education, to create democracy and for freedom for the individual. Our history has taught us that hydrocarbons have been a prerequisite for the development of the West and that we are at the level of our civilization today. It would hardly have happened without the hydrocarbons – and without you could get reasonable energy out into society. Our nobility mark in this context is a very good management of the enormous energy we have available in Norway. It's been a good administration in the sense that we've taken care of the energy for the benefit of the country's inhabitants. We have many examples from other parts of the world where you haven't done this as well. There, having such a great wealth has actually been a challenge that creates conflicts, wars and, to put it mildly, a not particularly fortunate development. But we have managed, at least until recently, to have cross-political agreement on this administration. At the same time, we are doing something important for the world. We're getting the world energy. We not only manage it well for our own good, we also manage this energy for the good of the world, because we are involved in generating the energy that hydrocarbons actually represent. We are involved in establishing a basis for other countries to be lifted out of poverty and into democracy and into the range of well-developed societies. This is in many ways part of our contribution to the world. We should bear that in mind when you constantly take the starting point of talking down – which I unfortunately often find politicians, especially representatives on the left, are concerned about – petroleum, which is actually important. This consensus seems to be being challenged now. One thing, of course, is that government SV will always represent a challenge for the other government partners. But I understood that, in connection with the meeting in Svolvær, Ola Borten Moe gave a signal that is a significant change in the policy communicated not least by his co-representatives from North Norway and communicated by the Workers' Party, namely that the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja are involved after the next major elections. Now I hear that the Workers' Party is taking away from its own State Council opinions in this context. It's very good, but I think that if this is an expression of the Central Party's position – i.e. peace into the next big time – he should perhaps take a talk with his own representatives from North Norway, because they communicate something completely different in the media. This is the jumping point, because when you criticize the opposition for saying different things, you might want to sweep for your own door first. This is an important matter for the nation, and it is an important matter not least for North Norway. This means jobs, development, economic growth and also skills jobs, which will have a major impact on North Norway, but there are strong doubts about what Soria Moria III might contain at this point. It's worth noting – but double communication should be over. So to our budget. The Progress Party is based on the cross-political consensus. We're not doing the big grips, but on some points in the Ministry of Oil and Energy's budget, we're making quite big changes. This applies primarily to Enova, where we believe that green certificates have created a situation that means that we do not have to fill up with as much money as you have done in the past. We define a clearer role for Enova. Let's do a few cuts in the administration. We believe it is natural that efficiency can be expected from the department as well as from the Oil Directorate. We want to spend more money, 20 million. kr, in order to create domestic jobs related to Norwegian natural gas. We're increasing the grants to FME centres by 50 million. kr. I think that is an important point when you go into the climate debate. You have the full opportunity to do something that is not just about water and wind power. We have great possibilities, not least in the case of thorium. We have occurrences on the Fens field in Telemark – which is probably 10–100 times the total number of occurrences on the entire Norwegian base that we have picked up – that lie there as a reserve, and which we assume can be found there in the future. These are quite considerable resources, and we should also work on that. We're increasing petroleum research by over 144 million. kr, because here the state also seems to have to put up and make an effort. So to maybe the big point where we differ significantly from the other parties: Mongstad. We believe – and we have always been for – that we should fund the test centre. The technology development is interesting, but we have to stop the full-scale plant at the point we are now, because now costs start running dramatically fast. When we know that other actors are ready, and are willing to do the same job on the ‘no cure, no pay’ principle, I believe that the taxpayers’ money is not being used properly, that we should continue with the full-scale facility. So to the big theme that this goes right into, climate. Some of us were visiting Doha last week and experienced what was hailed as a victory, not least by representatives of the government, namely Kyoto 2. It's relatively hard to understand. I will then take from a very wise statement, which is one year old: «A Kyoto agreement covering only 15 per cent of the world's emissions will be virtually meaningless.» Jens Stoltenberg said that a year ago. Now we note that the Kyoto agreement includes 14 pst. of the total emissions of the world – I was saying a little on the go – ‘The 14 Percent Community’. That's about where you are because you're actually adding up to cuts that are lower than China's emissions in the years that come. This has no realism, and when it is to be implemented in Norway, it will entail costs. This will mean even more bans, bans, regulations and costs for Norwegian business, which is simply hard to defend. If we are based on a globally binding agreement covering the major countries of pollution, such as the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The United States and China, the Progress Party can also be involved in discussing it. But at least we're very sceptical about entering into and moving on to the Kyoto agreement, all the time it really won't matter if you take the CO2 theory into account. That's exactly what's a bit of a challenge. So you have a problem. The problem is the map doesn't match the terrain. In the last 16 years – I have many references to both international and national – climate scientists have said that if the temperature has not submerged, the temperature rise is at least dramatically later than it has done in the past. So it's a flare of the temperature, and then you can discuss the level. It is a bit of a challenge when the CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere are higher than previously foreseen by the IPCC. So there's a limited harmony between CO2 in the atmosphere on the one hand and recorded heating on the other. This is the problem of the CO2 theory, and it has to be addressed. I'm not going to draw scientific conclusions, but it must be allowed to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2845	Does the representative want Amundsen to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2848	Yes, I am addressing those suggestions in the vote where the Progress Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2853	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen mentioned the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2858	The representative Amundsen spoke very warmly about our fossil energy resources and also boasted of the administrating that we have had of them. In fact, he is also talking about nuclear power in the form of thorium, but he is not talking about the eternal energy we have in the country. I'm thinking about the hydropower, a property that we've been fighting for over 100 years for going to the right of the Norwegian people. She has been run in such a way that the Norwegian people have benefited from it. Still, there are some hydroelectric power plants in which there is a fall-back. In their party software proposal, the Progress Party writes that they have no problem with private ownership of the water force. Then my question is: doesn't the representative Amundsen have any problem selling people's property?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2865	I think you should be careful how you choose to produce this. I know you want to make this a completely different matter than what this is about. The starting point here is that the industry can be owner, in line with other owners. It cannot be assumed that public ownership has been particularly perfect in all cases. I just need to refer to the power of Trom and what happened there. Often, public ownership is a challenge for Norwegian power companies, simply because you do not act as a rational owner. The Progress Party has no intention of selling the heirloom silver, if you say so, but we think it is natural that Norwegian industry can also own property. So here it's a constructed problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2874	Now, but also in the past, the representative Amundsen has thrown himself into the debate on the climate problem, with perhaps a slightly different approach than the other parties in this room. I just have to say that I am one of those who is incredibly proud of and very happy that Councillor Burd Vegar Solhjell got to what he got into Qatar. I also think that the representative Amundsen knows was a trick, in relation to what the state of things was. Since the Advance Party is a party that says at least itself that they are aspirating to government power, my question is about it. To Today's Business, the representative, Amundsen, said: ‘Climease is insoluble related to Frp as a batch.’ And he goes on to say, ‘I find it disappointing that the Right goes as far as they do and actually agrees to introduce new orders, bans and regulate people’s everyday lives.’ Can the representative clarify more what he means about the disappointment of the Right, and what he intends to do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2893	Like the red-green parties, the parties on the civil side are also different batches, with different batches, with some variations, and in some cases large nuances. This is in the worst case about a small dispute among good friends – nothing but that. There are differences here, and I'm going to be the first to admit it, but that doesn't mean you can't agree on good climate action, which is also beneficial for other sectors of society. There's no problem in itself. We have good opportunities to get together, and I believe that we also demonstrated in the climate negotiations that we had in ours, where it was the red-green parties that had to do what they could to get us out of the negotiating table, just out of fear that we would agree. We'll be able to find out with the Right – that's probably not the big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2899	The representative, Amundsen, said that Norwegian oil history is a success story among others. This is because one through good administration has taken care of the resources of the best for the inhabitants of the country. The representative Rudihagen then asked a very appropriate question. He deals with the issue of ownership and control of the water power in the proposal of the Progress Party, where they have gone in a more liberalising direction at several times. Amundsen says here today that it is not correctly understood. This is only about Norwegian industry being able to own hydropower. My question is, What are the limits of such a system? Should it be Norwegian-owned industry alone or can it also be foreign companies that run industry in Norway? Should there be specific requirements for the use of energy? How does this harmonise with the EEA Agreement, for which Amundsen’s party once participated in ensuring plurality in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2908	I can reassure the representative Sande that the Progress Party has no intention of selling out Norwegian hydropower. Those who have done so are representatives on the red-green side, who through their management of Troms Kraft have sold parts of it to Sweden. So I think the red-green should sweep at their own door before they start criticizing the Progress Party. We will provide Norwegian resources. You can't move out the footfalls -- it can't be done. We want to manage this for the best for the people, but I also say at the same time that history has not taught us – especially in recent decades – that public ownership has necessarily been the best, rather the opposite. One has been quite greedy about collecting dividends from power companies, which has put them in a challenging situation. It doesn't have to be bad that you have a greater degree of private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2915	Marx is probably dead, but he gave us some tools to understand the world, which are used by more than those who call themselves Marxists. One of these tools was to ask the question about who their interests serve people. Whom do Amundsen’s interests serve in his climate denial? Well, of course, capital, which, on a short-term basis, will have the greatest possible profit, at the expense of ordinary people. Not surprisingly, this is a fundamental prerequisite for the ideology of the Progress Party. The amundsen was present in Doha and saw the officials who worked around the clock and the efforts that the Minister for the Environment made, which eventually made an agreement on the table anyway, which he ironizes over, but which could have resulted in 13 billion. tonnes more CO2 emissions. Does Amundsen think it was a bitter defeat to get an agreement in Doha?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2927	Of course not, but I'm questioning the results. You really haven't achieved anything. The emissions that are being reduced as a result of Kyoto 2 are less than what China is increasing in the same period. This is very small. Taking into account the CO2 theories and their consequences, especially the most extreme variants, is not at all helpful. Then I ask myself the question: is it the case that an expensive symbol policy that costs taxpayers perhaps billions of Norwegian kroner, and that will lead to increased costs for Norwegian business, and that will mean prohibition, imposition and public regulation, without any effect? Where does the frontier for conducting symbol policies go? That's what I'm asking you, because that's what we're talking about here; symbol politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2935	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2938	Last Wednesday I was at a meeting here in Oslo, invited by a group now called the oil technology industry. This industry group is a supplier to the petroleum industry in Norway. About half of their output, worth about 320 billion. kr this year, goes to the market on Norwegian pedestal, while the other half goes to export. Over the course of a few decades, this industry has grown to be Norway’s second largest export industry. After the value of sales of oil and gas from Norway, the second place is the oil technology industry, with export values of about 160 billion. kr in the current year. The oil technology industry employs almost 200,000 people in 4,000 enterprises, with activities related to almost all municipalities in Norway. This is an impressive industrial development, which may in many ways have become a shadow of the oil and gas production itself on a Norwegian base. However, it says something about the importance of combining our resource base with competence, and how we can process industry based in our natural resources within the energy field, whether it's water, wind, oil or gas. For the right, it is important to facilitate this development. Our commitment to knowledge, research and technology development is a key element in the competence that Norway will compete in the future. The right-hand alternative budget also reflects this. For us, there are some areas of focus that are of general importance in the field of petroleum policy. Firstly, it is to ensure that attractive exploration areas are opened up for oil and gas, both to maintain production volumes in the years ahead, and in particular after 2020, and to provide a domestic market for industry, which is important. This means, among other things: that we wish to undertake an impact assessment for the Lofoten, Vestreålen and Senja areas, with a view to opening these areas up to petroleum-related activity. Secondly, we will focus on increasing resource use in existing fields. Almost 60 pst. of the total Norwegian petroleum resources in existing fields remain to be produced. An increase of only 1 percentage point in the recovery ratio corresponds to gross values of approximately 325 billion. kr with today's oil price. The unexploited petroleum resources on the Norwegian base are increasingly difficult to obtain and the need for advanced technological solutions is growing. Good technology development is important for future nation value creation, for the petroleum industry, and it has positive ring-effects for the industry as a whole. We must invest in technology development if we are to keep up with international competition. We're getting an average of 46 psts. of the resources of existing oilfields today. Statoil has now reached 50 pst. and has a measurement of 60 pst. This is ambitious. Right wants to be even more ambitious and has a vision of 70 pst. We want the North Sea to be a global laboratory for the development of new technologies and new solutions to increase extraction rates. This focus will provide opportunities for Norwegian industry and research environments. The state is a resource owner and has a special responsibility to ensure optimal extraction from the base, and we need to strengthen technology and competence development in order to achieve this. On the right, developments in state contributions to petroleum-oriented research do not seem to have gone in the right direction under today's red-green government and that the level should be increased. The objective of the right is that the State’s contribution should be around 600 million. kr annually. Today, the state contribution is about 400 million. kr, and the Right proposes a stepping up of efforts in 2013 by 75 million. kr. On the right, Petoro, who manages the state's assets on the socket, sees it as an important actor to strengthen the diversity of a socket where, after the merger with Hydro, Statoil has become a very dominant player, but also as an important player to focus on increasing extraction in existing fields. Right wants to strengthen Petoro, and we do it by increasing the funds of the company in our alternative budget. But more importantly, we are once again proposing to take Petoro out of the state budget and let the company finance the cash flow from the socket, so that the company obtains the flexibility and capacity necessary to build sufficient skills to care for these important areas in the future. This is a proposal for an overall opposition at the back. In addition, the right allocations to the Oil Directorate are increasing, which is also an important player in order to increase the extraction rate. We have some challenges in power generation and network infrastructure in Norway. The duration of proceedings on concession applications is long, and given that new renewable production needs to be in progress before the end of 2020 in order to participate in the electricity licence market, it is important to keep a strong focus on reducing the processing time. We are also committed to providing an appropriate infrastructure on the website, both domestically and internationally. On several occasions, the right has pointed out that the cost of the large investments in the future, both in the central and regional networks and in the distribution networks, will lead to increased burdens on consumers as well as on industry, and that it is important that this development be carried out as effectively as possible through both good project management and cost control. We believe that the government is making a mistake by putting down Statnet's User Council for a period when the need for dialogue, transparency and cooperation is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2967	Ownership diversity and competition are something that the Right sets very high. In the proposal for the Right-wing Programme, we can read that private and municipal owners of hydropower resources should be treated in the same way as the State as owner. The arguments used in this text are that this is precisely in order to ensure ownership and competition. So right will equate private and public ownership with our common water resources. This has produced strong reactions in the country, including among the Right People. Does the representative Meling consider ownership and competition more important than official control of our water resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2972	The representative referred to is a programme proposal in a work leading to final decisions at the national meeting of the Right to Spring. It is not certain — perhaps unlikely — that the same will be the case in the next draft, which will be available later this month. So then the representative can come with us in suspense. I think it is important that we focus on securing Norwegian industry sufficient power, at competitive prices. That's the focus that's important for the Right Forward. We're going to look at different ways to do that. It represents important jobs, not least in District Norway, and it represents large values for the country. We must be able to believe that in this particular industry it is a potential for growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2979	I hear that the representative Meling is now saying that this is something in the programme proposal, but that what is in the programme proposal is not certain to be adopted. But what is contained in the programme's proposal on the right of repatriation is, in fact, the policy that the Right has been in favour of before. It is clear that what is contained in a draft programme we, as political opponents, take very seriously. I have seen in the debate that an attempt is now being made to create the impression that the Right is also concerned with official control. Then my question is, why would the Right then want to equate private and public owners? Does the representative of Meling think that the Right would be allowed to differentiate between different private owners – allow some private owners to power, while others cannot? Does the representative Meling think that this is something that will be decided in Brussels or in the Right House?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2984	Right is committed to complying with international rules, including: through the EEA Agreement, and act in a orderly manner. Once again, I think what is said is wonderful. For this is something contained in a draft programme, there is nothing that has been adopted in our party. There is nothing about this in the programme for the current growing-up period. If it is the case that the representatives of the Workers' Party are so concerned about who should own it, how can it be that one third of Trom's power is sold out to the Swedes – with a chairman of the board, and former councillor, from the Centre Party and a county rapporteur in Troms, who also represents the red-green parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2992	Some of the most successful Norway makes for biodiversity abroad, for development and climate change, is forestry. The cuts we've done there only represent Brazil's domestic emissions many times. When we were in Doha now, an agreement was reached with Vietnam to help them cut 20 pst. on its agricultural emissions. This agreement could not be signed on the basis of which the Right’s proposal for a State budget was based. I see from the debate that it might be thought that this is a kind of procurator trick, which Right has wanted to use, and that you haven't really wanted to cut. As a new member of this assembly, I can understand such misunderstandings. In that case, it is not too late to correct them by going back on them. Or is it that the Right actually wants to cut off this most successful action?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e2997	Now it is the case that this is in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and they have actually already adopted their budget in this Chamber a few days ago. I just want to say that we are incredibly satisfied with the achievement we have in rainforest setting. It is an important response to the climate challenge. It was precisely the Right who, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, pressed forward this initiative in 2008, when we discussed the climate agreement. So this is important to us. Once we've chosen to do what we've done, it's because there's a lot of money on the book. We thought it was of no practical importance to take out these funds, as there is a lot of money on the book waiting for it to actually be paid out. So there's nothing on the Right that suggests that we've thought away from the effort that we've been involved in pushing forward, and that's extremely successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3004	I have to go back a little bit to what concerns public ownership and public control of hydropower resources. Now the representative Meling has said twice that this is a storm in a glass of water, that this is a programme proposal. But this is not just a proposal for a program. This is what has our right line, a move towards liberalisation and the opening of the hall. It was Right's position also when the Stortinge in the previous period discussed the public ownership of the hydropower resources. When there are now limitations in the Troms Force's hall, there are restrictions imposed by the government, and which the Right opposed in the Storting. So the question for the representative Meling is, if one agrees with the government that it's a goal to ensure public ownership and control of water power resources, why don't you say that in this room? Why doesn't a Right stand behind what's the plural's point of view in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3009	That's right what the representative Sande says about the last ageing period. But I'm dealing with the program for this big period, where we don't say anything about it. I am also concerned that the representative Sande refers to is a programme design in a programme process towards a national meeting. I would think that the party might not land right where this draft is. I think the representative Sande will see about the next draft. What we are basically concerned about from the Right is giving industry access to power at competitive prices, which allows them to have a long-term horizon for their investment and hopefully further development in Norway. These are important jobs for Norway — they represent a long industrial culture. We want to facilitate this industry, both as it is today, and to enable it to grow in the future. In this context, the framework conditions for access to energy are an important factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3016	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3019	The world is facing a huge task: the transition from fossil energy to a renewable society combined with the desire for increased prosperity and quality of life for the poor in the world. The use of coal, oil and gas must be drastically reduced. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, has provided figures showing that at least two thirds of fossil energy deposits we know today need to be unspoiled and unused if we are to have a chance to achieve the UN target of a maximum temperature increase of two degrees. These are the main challenges in the subject areas we are discussing today. We must continue to strengthen the increase in renewable energy production and work further to lower our own fossil energy use. We have to assume that most of the fossil energy we have has to lie unspoiled below the ocean surface. We have to assume that the world's energy problems cannot be solved fossilly. Here, therefore, we fundamentally disagree with the Progress Party and the Right. Fossil energy must be replaced in the transport sector, in industry and not least in the petroleum industry. The gas turbines in the North Sea are our coal-fired power stations, which must be replaced by clean power from land. Fortunately, we see that the increased CO2 price we received with the climate notification, for example. causes electrification of the height of Outsira to pay off. For SV, it is a prerequisite that these fields are realised with pure force. In the transport sector, the Climate Communication states that the growth of the population and traffic around urban areas should be taken by public transport, by foot and by bicycle. This year we get an increase in public transport appropriations of 67 pst. Rail funding continues to grow, but our challenge is that if public transport is to reduce climate emissions, road development around urban areas must be halted at the same time. The bet on both road and rail is worse for the climate than no railway and little road. The government has ever produced the most ambitious climate message. The spring climate settlement is now followed up by the government point by point. Many of the appropriations come from other budgets, but the Ministry of the Environment budget is a clear winner with a growth of 11.4 p.m. It includes climate action, natural diversity measures and cultural protection, which generate significant growth. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party proposed that 5 million be allocated to the Committee. the growth of cultural protection was to be made available to ship protection, while at the same time increasing the funds available to ship protection centres. Coastal culture and vessels are an important and often understated part of the cultural heritage. The queue for the rehabilitating of particularly larger ships is long and there is a clear need for further strengthening of ship protection. For SV, work on climate change emissions for the conservation of natural diversity is the most important. At the same time, it means that we get a qualitatively better society where resources are used more efficiently. In these four years, the government has delivered more in this field than anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3035	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3038	In April last year, the Food Authority went out and advised people not to eat liver from fish taken in the archipelago, because the fat fish liver may contain worryingly high levels of pollutants such as dioxins and PCBs. 359 sites along the Norwegian coast may be so contaminated that they are a threat to nature and health. 100 sites are seriously contaminated and require prompt action. The situation is worrying, but the government chooses to cut the allocations year after year for the cleaning up of environmental pollutants in fjords and lakes. They've actually cut from 158 million. SEK in 2010 to SEK 58 million. kr in the budget for 2013. How can the representative of Egeland defend these cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3043	I agree that the situation in many fjords is worrying, and we have a big task in working to clean it up. I was present when the representative Astrup had a discussion with the Minister for the Environment about this in this room earlier. Then there was a lot of focus on the money. But this is not really just about money; it is a queue where there has not been enough progress. More needs to be done from among others. Climate and pollution Directorate, Clif, to spend more money. It had not helped now just to grant more money for cleaning up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3050	First I want to say that I'm adding 25 pst. of all fossil energy remaining below the North Calotte, is irresponsible policy. What I got into was what the representative of Egeland said about gas turbines offshore are our coal-fired power plants. Can the representative explain to me how the gain is in running electricity from land – clean electricity – to the fields, and then send the gas on to be burned, probably in England or Germany? It was asked about it earlier today – there is no gain in it. It is much more energy-efficient to burn the gas in the field, because then you don't have to compress it and send it out to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3057	I hope I didn't say that 25 pst. had to be left behind. I think, hopefully, I said two thirds have to be left behind, because that's what actually is. So it's much more serious. I am happy to have questions about our polluting gas power plant in the North Sea. The representative of Amundsen was asked earlier in this debate, and the answer lies in the level of exploitation. Gas power stations in the North Sea are well exploited. 40 pst. Of the energy, but if the gas comes to Germany, we can talk about 80-90 pst. efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3065	I want to go back to the question from Astrup, who was dealing with poison remediation. The representative of Aegean is right in saying that there was a problem that there was an accumulation of applications and that there were no clear projects, and in the budget proposal, the ministry writes that this was the reason why the appropriations went down. But now the projects are ready, now it just needs money. This is why we have put in additional appropriations – to enable one to start projects, which are important for individual ports, and which are important for biodiversity. I also want to challenge the representative of Egeland on this point. I think we agree that these projects are important, and therefore the point is that there must be more funds to enable them to be realised. For example, the Coastal Plant is in and will do some projects, but when there is no government funding, one cannot see the whole; both the work they intend to do, and the cleaning up of poisons. One also knows that local co-financing is often provided by government funds. Will the representative take the initiative to provide more resources so that we can implement this type of project?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3072	I am concerned that we are getting more progress in the clearing up of fjords, and this is about several things: it's about economics, about local co-financing – which should also be in place – and local work to facilitate the necessary decisions. I am open to go further in and see how we can do this, but I would like to note that the Ministry of the Environment received an increase in its budget of 11.4 p.m. – that’s a huge increase. Most of it goes to natural diversity tasks and climate tasks – it should have been more to clean up fjords. We have a common problem in making sure that it gets in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3077	In reply to the representative, Skumsvoll, the representative, Egeland, makes the issue of electrification of Norwegian pedestal a question of efficiency. It is very interesting, and perhaps new signals from the SV party, because what you are actually opening up to would have been a good answer to: Is it that if you build a gas power plant on a new platform, for example, which has a higher rate of utilisation than the one you get by sending the gas to the continent – even if you never know how it is used, or what degree of utilisation it gets there – will SV support building a gas power plant on the platform instead, if it goes the same way? Is it just a question of efficiency? In that case, there are quite new political signals from SV. It would have been great if the representative could answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3082	I don't think the question of efficiency is new signals from SV – that's clearly what's at stake. I have also not said that SV will not be able to go in to open any fields where there is gas operation, but we will make sure to make it more profitable, and largely profitable, to operate with electrification. I think that should be the rule – we should be able to supply our installations with clean power because we can produce enough clean power.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3087	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3090	As a Christian Democratic Center Party, the Christian People's Party builds its policy on three important principles: human dignity, closeness of mind, and responsibility for administration. All three are important principles when we discuss what we are doing today. It's about trustworthiness because we're set to manage the earth for the benefit of this generation and for future generations. As the farmer so finely says, he wants to deliver his earth in preferably a little better condition to the next generation. It is a principle Christian People's Party share. It's about human dignity, and it's about next love, because we see that the climates we're threatened with are going to hit the poorest of all the hardest: the people who don't have the ability to build houses that are facing ever wetter and wilder climates, the people who don't have insurance on their houses and the people who are totally dependent on crops or on fish to survive. The Christian People's Party is concerned that Norway should take the responsibility we have because we are a country with great wealth and that has contributed to large climate emissions. That's why we want us to take a bigger cut at home, and to be even more offensive to developing new renewable energy and new technologies. Concerning the debate we had in place on the energy message: the Christian People's Party's mission with an energy message is not just getting a paper from the government. We want to see much clearer the relationship between the different fields. Where there has been an oil notification, where there has been an online message, where there has been a climate notification, etc. we want to see the context, both in order to be able to think about the steps that can be taken to achieve a more offensive policy and not to conflict with each other. To the representative Sande: I just want to remind you that there have been two climate announcements. I feel that the debate that has taken place in Stortinget has been positive for those results – because it has improved results. I also think that an energy message to the Stortinget could have been with and drawn policy in the right direction. But this is the last debate and the last budget of the red-greens, and it's tempting to use Frederic Hauge's words: Eight lost years for the climate. I don't know if I'm going to take it so hard, but I have to honestly admit that I've been disappointed by what the red-greens have been able to deliver in those years. There are many environmentalists – there are many who are concerned about climate, environment and energy policy – who had expected more, and I am one of them. Now it's said that it's hard to do everything during a big period, but the government has had a majority in two major periods, and I would have expected a greater decrease in climate emissions than we've seen. Today we are also discussing the follow-up to the climate agreement that helped to strengthen the climate communication that was presented. I must honestly say that I experienced the climate differences on which the floor planer we were to build, and therefore I am disappointed that it has not been a clearer follow-up. It's also about being a proponents. I had thought that this government would go even more offensively out, and say, the points in the climate agreement were things we would like to go further, and we would like to fulfill things faster, because it's urgent for the climate. That is why I am disappointed that, for example: the aid scheme for phasing out oil fires has not been included in the budget. That's why we're adding an extra NOK 1 to our budget, because we've seen that it's worked very well in Sweden. We're also adding 80 million. kr extra to the support scheme, so that one can additionally carry out an increase – perhaps in line with the one in Oslo, which works well. We know that phasing out oil fires is an important tool. That's approximately equal to that. 3 pst. of the total Norwegian emissions – 1,6 million tonnes of CO2. We also prioritize poison remediation, which we were in the city. There are many projects that are currently at risk of not being met — where there is local co-financing and where the Coastal Agency and others are involved in taking action — that need funds. That's going to add up to 50 million. kr in our budget. We are also disappointed that the government chooses to liquidate the cultural memory fund. We are far behind the goals of an overall expansion in order to preserve cultural memories. We're raising the fund's capital to $1.6 billion. kr. We want the predictability of a fund because one does not depend on the annual budget appropriations. Just as we argued when we created the climate fund, the cultural memory fund would provide predictability and security to achieve those objectives. Finally, I have to tell you that there was an error in the setting – I think it has changed in the version that is out there. The Christian People's Party sucks right enough for Jan Mayen, but we don't cut the whole OED budget, as it looked in the first draft.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3116	It was only good. Then we're going to switch lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3121	Oil business is moving more and more northwards. It is very good in terms of both housing, workplaces and not least the construction of skills – it is just to look at Kristiansund, Stavanger, Hammerfest, Sandnessseen etc. The Right and Advance Party have strongly signalled that they want extraction in North Norway, in the areas of Northland VI and VII and Troms II. Now I understand – and have heard it for a long time – that the Christian People's Party wants to enter a blue-blue Right and Advance Party government. But how does the Christian People's Party stand for the extraction of oil and gas in North Norway, and especially in the areas of Northland VI and VII and Troms II, when they are engaged in this after government cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3126	I believe the position of the Christian People's Party in the case of Northland VI and VII and Troms II is reasonably clear. We still want protection in Lofoten, the Westphalian and Senja, and that's because we believe we can afford to wait. I believe that the new findings that have been made, and the opportunities we have to open up in the Southern Barents Sea, mean that we have enough projects to protect the most vulnerable areas. We also believe that there is a strain on the Norwegian economy – next year there will well be investments of over 200 billion. kr on Norwegian pedestal – gives good arguments that we can afford to wait for the inside fillet, the most vulnerable areas. It's true that we want a new government, and we want the most weight in the center. That is why we are going to be very tough in negotiations. But I record that the representative Stroem is very clear that he wants to open, and I see that the councillor Borten Moe signals that at least he wants to open Nordland VI, while I see that SV doesn't, so unfortunately – I think it's going to be crowded regardless of government options. But the Christian People's Party is at least going to use the voices we get to our eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3133	I do not share the view of the representative, Mr Ropstad, that we have had eight lost years in climate policy. I believe that one has had seven good years, one with, among other things, The Christian People's Party has developed a climate policy that has worked both here and abroad. I hear the representative talk about managing responsibility and the poorest in the world, and I know it comes from the heart and is sincere. At the same time, I must deal with the Christian People's Party in government with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. What I don't understand is that the Christian People's Party, which not only titulates itself as a climate party, but is it on real terms, is so determined to have the Advance Party in government. They have repeatedly argued against what they call the CO2 theory, and at the latest in the alternative budget, the Right Party and the Advance Party joined forces on major cuts in climate and forest activity. How can the Christian People's Party stand in favour of this policy and feel that the Advance Party is going to be in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3143	There is no ambition for the Christian People's Party to get the Advance Party into government, just so it's clear. We've said that we want new government, and that we want center-right-regiering, but we don't exclude anything. We want to negotiate after the election, and then we see what it brings. But at least it's unlikely that we're going to go into government with the Progress Party. So to the question of the rainforest billions: it's just to point out what has been said earlier in the debate here, and I'm very happy that the Right is as clear as they are, because it was the Right, Left and Christian People's Party that, in the first climate agreement, raised the rainforest billions, which is a great project, and that can show results that are many times Norway's emissions. That means we're going to continue that effort – and want to increase it. But when you ask about faith, it's like I have a good point of faith -- at least I like to believe it. It's sometimes so that it's not necessarily those who believe, who do the most – one actually doesn't have to have faith to do good deeds. It's actually the case with this government, that even if it believes well, it lacks the actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3153	I'll continue a little bit on the question of Eirin Sund. The Progress Party denies man-made climate change, and they say it's a fundamental premise for the party. The Christian People's Party says that they focus on managing the creation. It's almost impossible to imagine a more different ideological starting point to look at the climate problems. Then the representative Rupstad answers that it is not a goal to go to government with the Progress Party, and perhaps you should not go to government with the Advance Party, but rather act as a supporting party. It's not exactly soothing. Outside the government: how will the Christian People's Party ensure that it withstands the pressure it is now from, for example. Right and Advance Party to open the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja for oil drilling? We've been able to cover these areas for two periods, but how does the Christian People's Party think they're going to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3160	Our plan is, as I have said, that we want a new government with centre of gravity-right. That means that we can refer to what we have done under Bondevik II, where we also know that the Progress Party was a supporting party in three out of four budgets and an important part of many of the decisions that were taken. There we had an offensive policy, and there we had a lot to point to when it comes to oil policy. It's just looking at the most important instrument to control the pace, which SV is busy with, and that's readmission. It's been two-thirds under this government. So I am very sure that the policy that will underlie a government Christian People's Party will participate in will be good. So government negotiations will show whether we can go into such a government. If we don't go into the government, but it's a new majority, the Christian People's Party will be able to sit and tilt in the Biggest, and there we will be and apply the weight we have in the issues we're concerned with, and this will be one of them, which I will help to try to create a majority for the policies we believe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3170	I have to drill a little more into it with any government cooperation – or let me say this: government support – that the Christian People's Party supports a possible government where the Progress Party is involved. It was interesting to note that it was not one of the themes that Amundsen raised in the main post of the Progress Party from this pulpit, in which the Christian People's Party was united – not one. And there was a good and solid climate awareness all over the place. If one comes into a situation where the Christian People's Party participates in securing plurality in this Chamber for a government in which the Christian People's Party is involved, something the party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, has not failed: What part of the Christian People's Party's energy and environmental policy does the representative Robstad see it as the greatest chance to get through?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3177	It's no worse than to refer to what we managed to achieve under the previous government, when it was a different majority. Then we were able to implement a policy of which the Christian People's Party is proud. Then we had the Energy Minister, Einar Steensnæs, who implemented the first management plan, and who helped protect e.g.. The Lofoten and the Vesterål. It's a policy that I want to go back to. That's why I'm not at all worried about any new majority. What I am disappointed about is that this government is not using its majority in a more offensive environmental and climate policy. That's why, as I said before, it's not necessarily that you have to believe in climate change in order to take action. I have to say that I was very surprised by the climate negotiations that were here in Stortinget. There one saw that the progressing party had come to its full measure if the red-greens had only accepted it. But then the Progress Party was chased out. Then it became the Right, Left, and Christian People's Party. At least that gives me a great faith that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party is going to conduct an offensive policy. We are the ones who have taken the policy forward – everyone knows – in both of them, but it also shows that the Progress Party must extend in these areas, which will mean action. It is the most important thing for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3184	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3187	I would like to start by congratulating the Minister for the Environment on the good work that was done to extend the Kyoto Agreement. I looked closely at how much work was behind this. It was important, because it provides the basis for a new and broad climate agreement at a later stage. The green development mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol was important in order to establish an initial agreement. However, the left is concerned, on the same line as, for example, the left. The National Audit Office, over the government's use of climate quota purchases – both in terms of the projects we invest in, and in terms of how we use them to meet our climate obligations. The left will therefore not spend money on this scheme in this year's budget, especially since it stands at 2 billion. kr unused in this scheme already. Instead, the Left will strengthen the European allowance market by deleting all unused allowances currently sold and received on the State budget, a total of 6,1 million allowances – or 6,1 million tonnes of CO2. It will result in less greenhouse gas emissions, lead to a strengthening of the quota market, help to raise the price of allowances and ensure that Norway meets its climate obligations in a real and reasonable way. When the Environment Minister sends a letter to the EU – as I understand it – to do the same, we find it a little strange that we are not doing it now, when we have the opportunity. The left has proposed this in its alternative budget. The left will make Norway an environmental policy priority country, and we will take a great deal of responsibility at home. We need to develop environmental technologies and find solutions that others can use. Such a conversion is demanding, but it offers new opportunities. In a world where environmental problems become clearer, we want environmental companies to become the winners of tomorrow. In the government budget, the government writes that the main instruments of Norway’s climate policy are taxes and negotiable allowances. The problem for the government is that it is not willing to use the charges to reduce emissions. Norway needs to develop and put into practice new climate technologies and change its way of life so that greenhouse gas emissions are significantly reduced, while maintaining the level of welfare. Norway must go from being a fossil nation to becoming a renewable nation. Therefore, the Left has increased environmental taxes in its alternative state budget by 8.9 billion. kr, where everything goes back to the population through lower taxes. We stimulate what we want more of, work, and less of what we want less of, pollution. It's good for the individual, it's good for the economy, and not least: it's good for the environment. We would also like to stress that we need an increased investment to increase the production of immature, clean energy sources in Norway. The left therefore proposes, inter alia: to increase direct grants to the Energy Fund, to establish a scheme of grants for the development of thermal energy and to provide more money to the MET Centre in order to speed up the propulsion and development of marine wind turbines. The left also believes that energy efficiency is one of the most important steps we can take in the future. We are therefore disappointed at the follow-up of the climate agreement by the government, where it sets a weak target for this sector. We in the Left will introduce a tax credit for environmental and growth measures in private homes, so that we have a massive and unbureaucratic system that allows us to take out the potential we know. It is good for the environment, but it is also good for consumers, who could get help to renovate their own homes so that they use less energy and get lower electricity and energy bills. It's good for the individual, it's good for the economy, and not least it's good for the environment. This is also how we get a lot of capacity released in Enova, so that Enova can be cultivated to become a powerful tool for energy efficiency improvement in large projects, in industry, and for Norwegian municipalities and county councils. I have to finish there. The left has a lot of heart in terms of energy and environment, but I get to take it back later this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3210	The representative tendon has a lot of heart in terms of climate and environment, she concluded with. I want to go back to the statement to the representative Amundsen of the Progress Party last week's Business Week, where the representative declared that climate skepticism is inextricably linked to the Progress Party as a party, and that the Progress Party would fight against climate action that costs something. The representative Amundsen went so far as to say that the climate issue is a way of sneaking into Marxist politics. Then I wonder how the Left, who calls itself a climate party, can at the same time support that the Progress Party and the representative Amundsen will be in government. Is this a statement supported by the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3219	At least it is not the task of the Left to defend the policies of the Progress Party. At least that's not the task of the left. What I perceive to be asked about is how we will be able to cooperate if it becomes relevant after the 2013 elections. The left goes to the election of the alternative budget of the Left. If we get a great deal of insight that there are many votes on the Left, the Left will be the tone of a possible new government. So I don't take that concern yet, and at least the representative Johansen doesn't have to worry about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3226	The alternative budget of the Left reads that the Left wishes to convert the charges, including: by adding the electricity charge to both those who have reduced the electricity charge and to all others. Can the representative Tenden explain how they intend to compensate for the impact of this on business? Or is it that, in the opinion of the Left, such compensation is not so necessary for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3234	It is right, as the representative Arnesen says, that the Left wants a strong shift in the tax system in a more environmentally friendly direction. As I said in the pulpit, it's about. 9 B.C.E. kr in increased environmental taxes. This is a lot, and this is bold politics. But the fact that the polluter has to pay is soon to prove itself in practice. We've used a lot of beautiful words for a long time, now we have to show it in practice. We're going to make a choice on this. Then it is that the industry for which the representative is concerned provides many incentives for the Left to renew, and for using new technologies that are less polluting. It is also in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3241	In my post, I pointed to the contrast between road development and collective action in urban areas. It's just that the collective effort doesn't work if you build the roads at the same time. It is simply not possible to build ourselves out of the car queues, we just move on them, and pollution and emissions only come on a higher level. I am asking about this because the proposed Oslopackage 3 is an example of this. While some public transport development is envisaged here, the result will be a strong increase in car traffic. In Oslo one wants the state to take the collective costs, and then the municipality of Oslo, together with the drivers, will finance the road. Does the Left agree that in urban areas we need to make a choice: are we going to have more car traffic, or are we going to use the necessary means to make a transition to public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3250	It's precisely because of the collective effort that we need a new government. The Bondevik II government, with transport ministers from the Left, was actually the ones who took the initiative for many urban railway projects. They were drivers of increased public transport, and they were drivers of the reward scheme. Then there's one reason why we have to change government -- that's a lot of reasons -- that's the collective effort. In the case of Oslopackakt 3, SV is actually also behind it in Oslo and Akershus. So I just don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3257	I liked Borghild Tenden's post. She talks, among other things. on green businesses, green jobs, which provide competitiveness in the future, which we, with the support of the Left, have also invested in through Transnova, Enova and other instruments that we have, and which the Progress Party wants to cut into this year's budget. I could think of getting a comment on both the cut and the fact that similar to the Christian People's Party, the Left feels like sitting in this hall and the right Advance Party, which they say they're opening to support the government, talking for ten minutes about all things that the Left is smoking in disunity – in addition to the climate crisis. What thoughts does the representative tend about it, while her own posts have moments that are repeated by one or all of the government parties – when it comes to getting an impact on Left's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3264	My thoughts are that I'll do the best I can for the Left to grow up, and I'd like to do bigger than the Advance Party. We've started that job, and we're going to continue it. The bigger the Left gets, the better the environmental policy we get in a new government. When it's true, it actually doesn't have to be very much more. Apart from being very satisfied with what the Minister for the Environment has now done in the Qatar negotiations, it is failing in some areas of this government. Among other things, SV was in the case of public transport. There's been very little focus on our big cities in these seven years. Then I have to say a little about Oslopackak 3. SV supported Oslopackak 3 in the initial phase. At least that's a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3273	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3276	The government is continuing the strong environmental effort we have had in 2013. The draft budget for the Ministry of Environment has an increase of 11.4 p.m. in relation to 2012. In addition, large-scale environmental efforts in many other departments are budgeted. This increase is not one-off; on the contrary, the government has implemented a major environmental policy effort over several years. Compared to 2005, the Ministry of the Environment's budget has been doubled from then on. The fight against greenhouse gases and global warming is the biggest environmental challenge of our time. In later times, nature has given us a lot of signals as to what we can expect if climate forecasts turn on. The Arctic sea ice melts much faster than we could imagine, destroying race, flutters and storms happen more often than before, and is now being directly linked by researchers to man-made climate change. The goal of limiting the global temperature increase to 2 degrees is becoming both more important and more difficult. The climate report from the spring and climate agreement here in Stortinget shows Norway’s response to climate change. We're going to take a cut towards 2020 at 30 pst, with an ambition of two-thirds here. Therefore, the government follows the climate agreement in the State budget. The CO2 charge on the base shall be increased by NOK 200. It's set by 10 billion. kr extra to the climate and energy fund, and the climate and forest project will be increased to 3 billion. kr. The public transport reward scheme will increase by 262 million. kr, and the permits for climate research go up, among others. In Norway, at the lower end of 2000 species are threatened with extinction as a result of their habitats being reduced or altered. It is important to ensure that the threatened species can still be found in our nature. The government is proposing to increase the level of protection for forests by 111 million. NOK 231 million. kr. It's almost a double. The protection will cover areas throughout the country where voluntary forest protection agreements have been made. In several areas, there are a number of endangered species. There will also be proposals to increase the pledge by 22 million. kr to a series of measures to follow up the predatory settlement. The national park's running time is 68 million. kr. In addition, the government proposes that local government's rights in the protection area be increased by 14 million. kr. By facilitating careful use, we provide the basis for sustainable use of nature, to the joy of both the living and the coming generations. We protect nature to ensure the sustainable use of nature. Still more of us live or work in the cities. In cities, many environmental challenges are encountered: air quality, noise, transport, the environment, land use. If we plan well, we can resolve many conflicts and prevent others from occurring. The growing population in the central part of the country means that these issues need to be raised on the political agenda. We need to develop urban policy further. The government is therefore proposing a 30 million prize. kr for the bet against the big cities. The concession shall contribute to future-oriented urban planning, better environment and facilitate increased building construction. In addition, we propose an increase in public health and outdoor life of 20 million. kr. A lot of these money is directed towards nearby air travel, that is, outdoor life near where people live in the big urban areas. The government also proposes to increase its efforts in the field of cultural memory and environment to 570 million. kr. That's an increase of 62 million. kr, or 12 pst., from 2012. Proposals for an increase of 18 million are presented. kr to large industrial cultural memory, such as Odda, Atlungstad Brenneri in Hedmark and Haldenkanalen. It is also proposed to increase the amount of other cultural memory. I am pleased that the Stortinget is aware that increased efforts are needed for ship protection, so I agree that this item is strengthened through a re-prioritisation of funds. I must also say that I record that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will retain the Cultural Memory Fund and strengthen it with transfers. They won't have any effect until 2014, so the impact of the budget proposals from these three parties is less money for the cultural memory fund work next year. And since interest goes down, there will be less money in 2014 than with the government proposal. Over the years now, we've got an image of what a Right and Progress Party government is going to give. They'll give less to the environment in Norway. The party has systematically deviated from its environmental policies, and they will give less to the international environment. But there's also a big difference between them. The representative Amundsen said that it is no problem to be a few. I wish that the debate could reveal, that he would confirm, that the Progress Party will lay down to make the parties a few if they come into government together. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3303	I am not going to help the council by laying down the pad flat on behalf of the Progress Party. It would have been okay if the Council of State could clarify whether he agreed with his own head of government, which on 7 December 2011 stated the following to NTB: ‘A Kyoto agreement covering only 15 pst. the world's emissions will be practically meaningless.» So that's what the Governor of State said a little over a year ago. Is the Council of State Solhell in the statement of his own head of government – this has not been corrected afterwards – or does he disagree with his own head of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3315	I have said about the same thing myself many times in response to the question of whether it is the agreement world-wide that is needed to resolve the world's need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. No, Kyoto 2 is pointless in answer to the question of whether it is the global agreement we need to reach the two-degree target. But why did he come? Yeah, as a compromise in Durban last year, we were told that the rich countries are going to continue Kyoto 2 in order for us to keep pressing for emission reductions towards 2020, as Norway is doing with 30 pst. Cut and EU with 20 pst. Cut, cut, The second part of the deal is that now work on the global agreement that the world needs to begin, where India, China, the United States, Brazil, South Africa and all countries that are not on Kyoto 2 will discuss and try to move on. So yes, there I believe Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and I am quite a few, while the representative Amundsen hardly agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3320	Let me just stress that the Progress Party does not deny the CO2 problem and the impact of CO2 on the climate. What we're discussing is how much of this is man-made, and the result of it. The one who has the exact answer to that is more than good. But the precautionary principle is a party. But that's not what I was going to ask. I want to present cultural memory policies, as many describe as an economic pitfall that could lead to land seizures and large economic cost recovery requirements. I'm thinking of archaeological excavations. With such a hindrance, we often hear of findings that are being made, but which in silence are being thrown or made to nothing by the landowner in fear of him coming up into a lunatic. I could have looked up a number of such cases, where this is precisely the case with financial costs and land seizures. Does the Council of State see that this policy is in the process of destroying the legitimacy of cultural memory policy – when the community disclaims responsibility and pursues a policy that makes fundamentalists feel completely innocent in such matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3334	I believe that we have a quite well-functioning cultural memory policy. It's true that a imposition of strong demands, but it's necessary if we're to be able to secure our cultural memories for the future. Then there can certainly be challenges on different aspects of the policy that we can discuss, but which I think might be more home in other debates than in a budget debate. Then I just have to say that the Progress Party is not rejecting the CO2 problem and can discuss how much man-made: well, there are a lot we politicians can discuss, but there is a scientific question that there is extensive research on. There is just an overview of how much of the peer-reviewed research that means that man-made climate change is not man-made, to put it that way. That's 0.2 pst. of the research. 99.8 pst – greater security is scarce in any research field. That's when it makes no sense to have a party that looks a little loose around it – when it's one of the most researched fields in the international world.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3344	It is very special to hear the Council of State say that there will be less environmental protection with the Right in Government, after the Right, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, have been at the forefront of helping to strengthen the government's climate policy in two stages. The first climate announcement this government presented was a climate announcement that only the Progress Party seemed to be good. It was slaughtered unisonously by the environmental movement. It was slaughtered by the opposition with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party at its head. We contributed to tightening up climate policy. In round two the government presented a new climate announcement, which was also slaughtered because it was a little ambitious and a little concrete. It was ambitious when it came to the goals, but did not tell us how to achieve them. We helped, with the right in the top, to make it more concrete. But the government's follow-up to this ambitious climate agreement is not tolerable when we see that you, for example. have made a commitment to support the phase-out of oil fires from private homes from 2013. But there has been no such support mechanism. Can the Council of State now guarantee that such a support scheme will come and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3353	If we go through the alternative budgets of the Right and the Progress Party, which is at the heart of the blue-blue option of the red-green government that is now forming, then there are systematically lower environmental promises and priorities – in Norway and internationally. But it's true that there are differences. There is a choice between a little less and a lot less environmental bet. In addition, there are qualitative differences. Someone believes in the CO2 theory, while others don't believe in the CO2 theory – or will at least discuss the CO2 theory – that we got right here. So for the climate agreement. We have followed up all the fields in the climate agreement that should be followed up, in the state budget for 2013. But of course it was said that significant parts of the climate agreement that we have to come back to both in 2013 and later in Stortinget. It was two months after we agreed on a civilized conversation about how we can follow it up together, rather than make claims about a breach. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3371	State council, it's 1 minute's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3374	I think it's a little panicky – or: attack is the best defense – when I hear the Council of State in the line exchange here. Because I experience SV as a party in the front line to fight climate change, and I never doubt SV's commitment or Solhjell's own commitment. But I'm experiencing a result of politics that's just very disappointing. The fact that one is at all going into the polemics of whether or not the climate agreement has been followed up, when it is so clearly said: from 2013, in the coming state budgets, etc. There are some points where you can legally possibly get away from, but politically I don't understand that the party that's going to go in the breeze, and that thinks it's urgent, doesn't want to fill up anymore. Take the oil-fire aid scheme, all of which are concerned. These are indoor environments, climate emissions, risks associated with gardening, etc. That's all good arguments for it to be done. Why were there no major aid schemes, for example, in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3379	Let's try to talk about this a little bit calm and civilized and look at those points. I guess when you say in the coming state budget, you aim for a point in the state budget on the FME Centres. Now I'm going to read exactly what it says: ‘The Government of the future State budget is asked to increase the appropriations allocated to the FME centres and to establish an FME centre for geothermal energy.’ From then on, until we made the state budget, there were two months of summer vacation between. It would be irresponsible to create a new FME centre at that time. We could have assessed increases there, but instead we chose to put a significant increase in climate research in other fields now. It says 'in the coming'. We're going to come back to that. 'In the next' means one or more. On fossil oil it says that the Storting asks the government to ban, etc. and this has led to the existence of aid schemes from 2013. Support schemes have been in place since 2013. Is there a need for more? Definitely. Is it wise to get closer and really figure out what's important, and not to panic in a month? Yes, that's also wise in our opinion. Is it a violation of the climate agreement? No, by no means. Maybe we should talk about how we're going to follow it up together rather than characterize it like that? According to my opinion, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3395	In my article I talked a lot about the tax system. My specific question is: why will government and SV not use the tax system to a greater extent to stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour? In fact, the opposite is happening today. According to the government's own figures, environmentally hostile tax subsidies total 6 billion. kr, cf. Table 6.4. of the 2013 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3402	I shall be the first to admit that there are aspects of transfers and the state budget that are not justified for environmental purposes and that, in isolation, may have negative environmental consequences. But they are often reasons for other important purposes that one has chosen. Then I'll say I disagree. It is in a number of ways that we use the tax system in environmental policy, and the charging system is one of the main tools – CO2 and NOx taxes to name a few. When it comes to an electric car, it has an e.g. very strong incentives to use it. But then there are individual proposals that others have made, but the government has not chosen to follow. And that's enough because we're a little critically evaluating when we're going to do it. If one gets too much collection of the tax and tax system, it may be unfortunate. So one has to be precise about when it's effective. And then it's often the way things are a little unpopular -- when we put taxes on unreasonable things -- it seems better than giving light to other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3415	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3418	In the budget proposal, the Government also presents its assessments of the Energy Committee's report and an energy policy status. I would like to point out that over the entire government period, the government has focused on ensuring efficient, robust and environmentally friendly power and energy supply in Norway by investing in renewable energy, more efficient use of energy, conversion from fossil energy use and strengthening the transmission system. This policy has produced good results. Enova is the main instrument in this important effort, which has been a proper grip. The revenues of the Energy Fund have increased from approximately 750 million. kr in 2005 to around 2 billion. NOK 2011, which has given a total of approx. $9.5 billion. kr to the Energy Fund for the period 2006-2011. This money has gone to wind power, energy efficiency in construction and industry, the development of district heating solutions, etc. and used by both private households and operators in industry, the heating market and the construction industry. We see that the long-term sustainability of funding has contributed to many good projects that have contributed to a total expected energy output of 11.3 TWh. The working party and the red-green government have done a lot to develop the Norwegian energy sector and strengthen efforts for domestic energy supply. Total appropriations for NVE – excluding flood and scrap prevention – have increased from approximately 350 million. DKK in 2005 to approximately 700 million. kr in 2012. During the period 2006-2011, new water and wind power plants with an annual production capacity equivalent to about 5,3 TWh have been put into operation. The concessional capacity of the NVE has doubled from 2005. From 2006 to 2011, final authorisations have been granted for 550 hydropower projects, which will produce an annual production of around 4,8 TWh. From 2006 to 2011, there is a final concession for 23 wind power projects, which will produce an annual production of around 3,7 TWh. Several important decisions have been taken in the energy sector in the last few years. The most important thing for development is probably the online message, the kerosene message, the climate notification and the climate comparisons in the cold water of the Stortinget, the electricity certificates we share with Sweden, which will trigger a total of 26.4 TWh, of which 13.2 in Norway, the Marine Energy Act, the strengthening of Enova, which I was in on, and the renewable directive and the target of 67 pst. renewable by 2020. The Energy Committee points in its attitude to key choices for the Norwegian energy sector towards 2050. The energy sector is changing. Tomorrow's energy sector won't look like the one we had yesterday. In both Norway and the rest of Europe, major changes are taking place. Economic crisis, climate crisis, phase-out of nuclear power, increased American oil and gas production and increased renewable energy production together constitute powerful drivers for change. The Energy Committee recommends that climate change means that global energy markets need to be fundamentally changed by 2050. They include: the need to improve energy efficiency and the need to increase the use of renewable energy sources. For Norway, these trends will mean that we need to address how we can help meet the world’s needs for flexible and renewable energy resources, while at the same time meeting our own energy needs and the impacts it has on nature and the environment in Norway. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the Energy Committee's recommendations will be an important basis for future energy policy. The Workers' Party is an industrial and commercial party. We need to align ourselves to ensure that good climate policies become good business policies. The power sector — both production and networks — is an important input into industrial policy. When we ensure high security of supply and quality of this, we at the same time facilitate industry and business. We will contribute where we can to make the change in Europe's energy sector go well – for example. by means of a power exchange, where appropriate. Norwegian gas can contribute to a significant reduction of climate emissions in Europe, but the quota market must be tightened. The main elements of government policy for a future energy system outlined in the proposition are: efficient and sustainable use of natural resources through good concessional processes focusing on renewable energy, energy conversion and energy efficiency improvement of the further development of the transmission network for research and development power. Through this policy, the Labour Party will continue to facilitate growth in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3471	The budget debate calls for many wishes and measures, and it is clear that we are in a completely different situation than many countries in southern Europe. We'll be happy for that. But there's a place the red-green government has invested heavily, and that's before the bureaucracy. We see that over the seven years this government has ruled, bureaucracy has grown considerably. Department, directorate, bureaucracy – we have had a growth in additions that were thought to be possible by the fewer, and today represents almost a third of the workforce. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration, as an example, has received 26 pst. multiple entries only in the last three years The Ministry of the Environment has grown up considerably and has our budgetary achievements for several years in a row. The Directorate of Nature Management is also a good example, where the increase almost represents a doubling of the number of people added since the government joined. Yes, it's actually so crazy that a department director in one of the departments goes out and says that one can no longer defend development. He said in the Evening Post no in the fall: ‘In some areas, bureaucracy is worse than rumors suggest. As far as the power of action is concerned, we have a development I'm concerned about." He goes on to say: ‘The departments are to be made smaller than before. [[...]] Those who actually want to see the results of what they do will choose other jobs.’ This is something that the Progress Party can no longer sit passively and watch. The solution to the red-green seems to be more and more added, while they look after other work. Nor has growth in the Ministry of the Environment led to an increase in the speed of things they get – rather on the contrary. Recipe is ready, this cannot continue. Therefore, the Progress Party in its alternative budget has carried out an operational budget and clearly indicates that this structure of bureaucracy needs to be reversed and reduced to a manageable level. We demand action: make our society simpler, and especially our officials' jobs easier, eliminate unnecessary laws, regulations and rules – then the hasty will go up dramatically. It's this medicine our society needs, not up to ten years of trial on individual matters. The party of progress is very negative to developments in the protection of archaeological cultural memory. In particular, we lack an assessment at the intersection between archaeological cultural monuments and local democracy. All too often we see local democratic judgements being tested, and this will inevitably lead to the weakening of legitimacy in the work on cultural memory. The Progress Party is clear that the State must cover the costs that the private or municipal landowner will incur from archaeological excavations, and also sees that it is untimely that some municipalities will become, both economically and in terms of area, the complete framework of action of today's legislation when it is in force. It's no longer unusual to right about costs in the tens of millions class. It must be unusually blind to the realities that do not see that for some coastal municipalities with very limited land, they have a disproportionate financial burden in connection with archaeological excavations and/or future land degradation as a consequence. This cannot be justified by the disclaimer we experience from the red-green government. So to the fund capital of the Cultural Memory Fund, which is now at 1.4 billion. kr. It is, on a proposal, brought back to the state register, and will, after an overall opposition's view, lead to a weakening of funding and sustainable conditions within the cultural memory sector. How this government thinks about this is a mystery, as a strengthening of this fund could be with and cover up the injustice experienced by the local authorities and private people, where they have to take the cost with their community's requirement to provide for ancient memory. This needs to be changed, and reason needs to be put in place. Finally, a few words about predatory game policy. The predatory game agreement is established, and there shall be no predatory game representing damage potential, in the priority grazing area and the calving area of tamrein. Nevertheless, some major losses occur in these areas, and over-testing of municipal responsibility means that the intentions of this agreement are no longer taken into account. This can no longer be accepted by the Progress Party. In the same way, we need to bring down your stock and make sure that licensing and operating within this hunt is effective, so that we skip hi-takes and the kind of stock reduction that many people think is directly immoral. But the important thing is that we have to get the population down to the agreed level. The burden on those who have these animals near them is too great, and we have to get the population down to the agreed level, because he's far from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3504	The main environmental challenges both in Norway and globally are combating climate change, loss of biodiversity and the spread of pollutants. The right, therefore, prioritises these areas in our alternative state budget. Let me start by giving the government the reward for solid efforts on voluntary forest protection in next year's budget. Voluntary forest protection is a very important tool to meet our national and international commitments to halt biodiversity loss. The right has long called for increased appropriations for this purpose and is pleased that the government is now delivering. The international forestry effort is also very important. The effort to reduce deforestation in the rainforest is a very effective tool to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, but it is also an important contribution to maintaining the biological tax base of the rainforest and the life base of very many people living in or out of the forest. This is the background to the proposal by the Right and the other opposition parties and the adoption of an international forest effort during the negotiations on the 2008 climate agreement. The right is our commitment to pay 15 billion. kr for this purpose, and we believe it is important to signal that efforts to reduce deforestation must continue beyond the five-year period agreed in the climate agreement. The right is concerned about the state of the environment in many of the country's fjords, ports and lakes. In April last year, the Food Authority went out and discouraged people from eating liver from fish taken in the archipelago, because the fat fish liver could contain worrying concentrations of pollutants such as dioxins and PVC. In thirty ports and fjords, seafood is so toxic that the Food Authority has found it necessary to issue local dietary councils. That gives cause for great concern. The Climate and Pollution Directorate is also concerned. In June this year, the Directorate wrote a letter to the Ministry of the Environment where the Directorate promotes a strong technical recommendation on greater efforts to clean up toxic sediments. It is clear from the letter that none of the government’s 19 priority action plan areas have been completed and only a small number have started. In a question hour earlier in the autumn, the Minister for the Environment expressed his understanding that the need is great and the matter is very important. Nevertheless, the government has decided to cut the allocations for the cleaning of pollutants from 158 million. SEK in 2010 to SEK 58 million. kr in 2013. It's a big disappointment. The right is proposing to increase this entry in the budget from 58 million. NOK 108 million. kr in 2013. It will enable far more projects to be implemented as early as next year. After a long time before the Doha climate summit would end with collapse and failure, fortunately, agreement was reached on an extension of the Kyoto agreement in the last turn. The Minister for the Environment deserves tribute for his role in this work. In the international climate negotiations, we have gradually become accustomed to enjoying ourselves over little. Agreement on Kyoto 2 means that 35 countries, i.e. The EU, Norway, Switzerland, Australia and a few other countries agree to assume emissions obligations by 2020. However, emissions from these countries do not exceed 14pst. of emissions in the world, and even these countries do not assume greater emissions than we have already committed ourselves to. Renewal of the Kyoto agreement therefore means little to address the global climate challenge. However, the agreement once again shows that the EU is the leader in international climate work, and the 27 EU countries are clearly the majority of the 35 countries that have taken on commitments. Despite economic difficulties in many European countries, the EU continues to raise environmental and climate standards in the Union with ever-increasing new directives on renewable energy, building energy, energy efficiency and product standards. I can add: that will also apply to us. The quota price is low, but the ceiling is lowered every year. Emissions in Europe will decrease – this is important. We need a coalition of willing people who are ready to run ahead, take responsibility and show that it is possible to combine high standard of living and economic growth with a modern, forward-looking low-carbon society. Norway has all the prerequisites for being one of these countries. Therefore, it is important that we succeed in the climate action we put into Norway. The aim must not only be to implement unilateral cut-offs at home but also to contribute to new solutions and the development of new technologies that may also have transfer value for other countries. Among other things, there will be: Norway’s new climate technology fund is important. Our commitment to the capture and storage of CO2 can also make a difference internationally. We have a lot of good research environments working with CCS, and we should have a broad commitment. It is not least important because there are so many challenges with a possible full-scale sewage treatment plant in Mongstad. Right, therefore, we think we should bet on more horses than just Mongstad. Both coal-fired power treatment on Svalbard and industrial emissions in Grenland point out as reasonable projects of great learning value and can be realized much faster than Mongstad. We should therefore start there. In the climate agreement, many major advances were made, thanks not least to the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. To the right, the follow-up by the government to the areas not yet followed up. In particular, new measures from 2013 to support households wishing to convert from fossil oil firing to environmentally friendly alternatives. It is clear from the view that there are new measures here and that the current measures of Enova are intended to cover the industrial and industrial markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3530	It has now been four years since the international financial crisis broke out seriously. Anxiety has been much longer than most thought, and in many countries economic activity is still lower than before the crisis broke out. With us, the picture is different, sometimes very different. The Norwegian economy is clearly different from most other OECD countries. Rich natural resources, long-term and good governance combined with competence and hard work have proved to be a good combination. The petroleum sector is Norway's largest industry, and the related supplier industry is the second largest. This gives jobs and value creation throughout the country, and opportunities for development and rich life. Also in renewable energy, we are a different country with a much higher renewable share than the rest of Europe. We are facing large investments in renewable energy in the future, which will also contribute to jobs and industrial development not least in the districts. The government has addressed all major energy policy challenges. Now is the time to operationalise policy and implement, not to write new headlines. This year, revenue from the oil industry is expected to be below 660 billion. kr. That's about 23 pst. of gross domestic product. The country's net cash flow is 387 billion. kr. That means in the five minutes I'm talking here, it's about 3.5 million. kr into the state register. In other words, there is no doubt that investment in industry is of major importance to the Norwegian economy. This year, investments are expected to be close to 174 million. kr – much of it in time-critical EOR projects. Activity in the industry is high and is expected to be high in the coming years. The stability of the industry combined with high oil prices means that Norway is less affected by unemployment and recessions, as we see internationally. We make important contributions to international energy solutions, not least in Europe, by date 20 pst. of the gas Europe consumes — an important piece in their job of reducing their own carbon emissions. In addition to the large revenues, there is no doubt that the energy sector is crucial for jobs and industrial development throughout the country. Norwegian oil and gas industry employs about 200,000 people directly and indirectly. But also on the renewable side, we see an increase in the number of jobs. According to a report from Menon, the number of jobs related to clean energy and environmental technologies has grown by 58 pst. between 2005 and 2010, from around 30 000 to around 47 000 jobs. In other words, it is one of Norway’s most important industries and is experiencing significant growth. Nearly 11,000 jobs are directly linked to hydropower and hydropower-related technology, with a gross value creation of about 34 billion. kr. Much of this goes back to host municipalities in the form of concession fees and taxes. In other words, an image of a renewable industry in strong development, in strong growth and in a kind of contrast to the reality description I sometimes get the impression that many here in the hall join. As it is said in a well-known song, ‘It’s not the time to get to sea’. If we are to secure jobs and revenues, we need to think forward and long-term, as we have described in the kerosene message, which was adopted in Stortinget last year, and as we have described in the online message, which was adopted earlier this year. At a time of economic uncertainty in the rest of Europe, we must take care of and build on the good results we have in the Norwegian economy. An important part of this is to continue to manage our rich energy resources in a good and sustainable way. That's what this government is doing. We've been showing that for more than seven years. It is also interesting to note that the opposition agrees that you need a message, yes, and a new government, yes, but otherwise it virtually cracks in all directions. This is an area that is not suitable for experimentation and ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3551	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3554	I share the Council of State's assessment that the energy field is not a field suitable for experimentation and breaking political signals. That's why we haven't done it either. We perceive that the Council of State, through its work, is actually quite close to the Progress Party. I think the distance is greater to his own government partner SV. I want to attend the meeting on 23 November. It was very surprising that the Council of State – now we have just been told that he did not express himself as a Council of State because he did not express himself on behalf of the Workers' Party – stated from a pulpit that the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja should also be closed the next majority period, with the exception of that part of Northernland VI which is already open. Did he then express himself as a member of the Center Party, on behalf of the Center Party, or was it as a private individual? This is quite important to clarify because his party friends in North Norway come with completely different signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3563	Let me first just give you an observation related to this meeting and these statements, and that is that at least for itself the concept of "northwind from all sides" has a whole new content. There is absolutely no one here who is satisfied, perhaps with the exception of Andey Fiskerlag. That being said, the background to both the meeting in Svolvær and the statements is very clear: the government's policy is firm, and that is to say, no opening of these areas during this process. So the representative Amundsen knows just as well as I do that we are now going into a period when the different parties are going to shape their party programmes, make their policy on which to go to the elections for the next harvest. My input related to what was my recommendation to the Center Party's program committee, and to the extent that everyone else who wants to listen to was published in Svolvær. I am absolutely sure that we will have a good and rich debate on this issue next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3572	The Progress Party does not disagree with that much of the policy that the current Minister is pursuing. But it has long been known that from 2020 there will be a surplus of power in the Nordic region. We just had an opinion on that from the group manager of Agder Energie, and the same from consultant Marte Bakken in Zero, who writes in an article in the magazine Energietechnikk: ‘There is also no policy measure of the power from green certificates, energy efficiency and wetter climate to them’. That's what we've been saying all along. The question is: does the Council not see the need to draw up overall plans for power needs and profits in 2020, and to what and where should this power be used? That's what we want in our overall plans. We think that is missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3584	Let me first just take a very brief historical look back. You should not go back more than a few years in time before this hall, myself included, was very concerned with a very strenuous power situation in large parts of the country. We had been through many dry years, which had been cold in addition, and this led to that there was no surplus of power that was being debated, it was on the contrary a huge shortage of power and various measures that were needed to ensure security of supply across the country. There I believe we have acted, and we have acted in such a way that we are now beginning to discuss what to do with any surplus. I think it's too early to say that we're going to get a big profit. We're not going to have a lot of start-ups, for example. an aluminiumworks or other power-consuming industry before all the so-called surplus has been eaten up. Furthermore, it is the market to determine for which power is to be used. Most people other than those sitting in this room are in a position to clarify what this resource is to be used for. I feel confident that it will be translated into value creation, light and heat to the joy of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3596	It's great that we have a high level of activity on a Norwegian base, and that it enables us to be the different countries we're actually in relation to the challenges we see, among other things. Europe. However, a high level of activity is also demanding in terms of project management and cost control of different deployments. In the case of the Yme platform, it has been allowed to evolve over too long, in the opinion of the Right. We have asked the Council of State if he sees that the authorities have something to learn about this project. What the Council of State corresponds to in letters to the Committee is that he believes that industry and the operator must learn from that incident. I think – with all due respect – it is amazing if the Council of State really believes that in a project like Yme, which is now approaching a cost exceedance of nearly 200 p.m., and we have not yet seen the end of it, we should not be able to draw lessons from it, including from the authorities and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3603	I think this is a relevant and important question. I'm worried myself, not only for Yme, but also for a number of other projects that have some large cost exceedances. It is not good for many reasons, but primarily because it is used by the community's resources, and it is partly a large part of the community's resources. Me and the department have followed Yme closely and are also very concerned about the story that Yme represents. At the same time, it is also very important to maintain the bottom line of Norwegian oil and gas policy, and there is a clear division of responsibility between the operator and the licence on the one hand and the authority apparatus on the other. I am willing to enter into a discussion, a conversation, about what we may be able to do differently, as long as we do not rock the basic responsibilities, and it is that the licensee is responsible for implementing the project, we to approve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3610	I then use the opportunity to remind the Council of a letter I sent on 23 October concerning the Yme platform. It is a question that I have not received an answer to, and therefore I use the opportunity to recall the letter, but also to ask the question orally. I am pleased with the answer that the Council of State is now giving, because that is a serious situation. I have to say that I am actually a little surprised that a project that was estimated to be approx. 4 B.C.E. kr in 2007, which is now in the budget for an estimated 14 billion. kr – a crack of over 9 billion. kr – no more attention. In comparison, we can almost take the property tax from the Progress Party and the Right or double the agricultural subsidies, or at least make a big effort for the Community's money. That it has not received any more attention surprises me. The Council of State says that one should be clear on the distribution of responsibilities, and I have seen that one of the outcomes may be that the entire platform has to be conditioned. If that happens, who bears the cost? Is that the state, or is it Talisman?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3620	It is the licence and the operator that bear the costs of any concession, and then distributed according to the percentage of which the licence is composed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3625	I want to challenge the minister for something I did not get in my post, namely Mongstad. The left considers that both the lack of propulsion and the high price make it appropriate to conclude the contract concluded for a full-scale plant in Mongstad and instead to open a tendering procedure in which all interested operators in the industry can participate in order to set up a full-scale plant. In addition, we want to install a new coal-fired power plant on Svalbard with CO2 capture and storage. I want to hear the Minister's reflections on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3635	There is no doubt that Mongstad is a very comprehensive project, a costly project and a difficult project. Much of this, however, was the Storting both aware and well informed about when we dealt with the biggest message about Mongstad last spring, and they joined in what was the work plan and plans for further progress in Mongstad. It was at least at the time of a unanimous decision in Stortinget, and it represents in a sense the mandate for the job I am now doing as the primary responsibility for the project. Then I have recorded that there is a little stretch in the team, in the sense that both the Left and the Advance Party have jumped off and now want to terminate the project. I don't think anyone has sub-communicated the challenges associated with it. In the case of Svalbard, we were now presented with the first part of the evaluations in addition to Mongstad, the next part will be next year. I do not in any way exclude that it may be relevant with other projects beyond Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3642	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3645	There are many important budget debates a day in important policy areas. I'm not going to say that energy and environmental policy is more important than anything else, but at least stress it might be obvious: taking care of nature, climate, natural diversity, the environment and housed natural resources in a resilient way is absolutely essential for us to live and exist on earth. It's amazing how we've created wealth in the country. We fall by nature, we have exploited the energy of nature, oil and gas and the renewable energy – special water power – we fish, we fall by the wild and strengthen the soil and exploit wild flora, not least to graze our animals. Besides, nature gives us experiences, outdoors, pleasure and health. Indeed, we are obliged to pursue an energy and environmental policy that also provides the same opportunities for future generations. The budget we're dealing with now shows a sense of these values. The Ministry of the Environment's budget is strengthened by 11.4 p.m. There is a marked increase in natural disasters, in forest protection, in national parks and in the management of protected areas. The predatory settlement is being followed up, and there's an increase in outdoors and public health. When it comes to outdoor life, I believe that if we are able to see, in particular, to young people, that nature is something exciting, in which they will search for forces, joy and excesses in an increasingly urbanised value, nature and outdoor life will become a way of quality of life and public health. Health Norway can save billions to get people into activity. Nature is a 24-hour pharmacy, available to everyone. Protection of nature, national parks and nature reserves, etc. is good and proper to take care of nature, ecology and the landscape. However, the protection of large natural areas can also be a major challenge for a municipality. It is therefore very important that we promote the creation of valuables in the periphery of protected areas, as the value creation programme suggested. The local management model introduced was also an important and correct approach. Local administration in protected areas increases the legitimacy of protection. It is therefore very good that the budget for local administration is increasing. Otherwise, I would like to stress the importance of having a good cooperation relationship between the SNO and the mountain government, and the significance of an earmarking of funds for SNO's purchase of services from the mountain government. This must be a permanent, careful arrangement for years to come. Our energy resources are absolutely fundamental to our value creation and our revenues – oil and gas, but not least the water power. The management of it and the ownership of these natural resources are decisive for our well-being. These energy resources are people's own. To ensure that, and for the people to benefit and enjoy this, we have the right of return, which guarantees public ownership, a relapse that we have had to fight for for over 100 years – against the right forces, which would privatize and sell out. Yes, in 1909, when the right to return was introduced, the Stortinge debated this for eleven days. The right forces were against, but fortunately, it was probably strong foresighted man, who watered through, and who did a craft we could be proud of. Right-wing forces have argued against the right of repatriation and privatisation in several ways. Of course, they know that by far the majority of the people want public ownership when it comes to waterpower, and have in time adapted the rhetoric after that. We've heard right here today rudder, rudder and rudder. But the fact is that in its programme proposals, the Right and Progress Party reopen to weaken their right to return. It's just enough that we can no longer buy hydroelectric power with a relapse, but there are still some companies that own power that go towards the end of the relapse period, and that are going to go back to the public. If that doesn't happen, we open up for privatisation and for ownership to end up on foreign hands. We hope that the Progress Party and the Right will not be able to implement such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3664	The Progress Party will further develop Norway as an energy storm power. Norway has significant natural resources in the field of energy. We have solid companies with a lot of expertise and experience in the energy sector. Several places in the country have been built up groups that possess advanced technology solutions. The Progress Party will pursue a policy that stimulates better extraction and use of energy resources. We will work to strengthen the commitment to research and development of both energy production and consumption. Oil and gas production is very important for the Norwegian economy and prosperity. More than 200,000 people have their daily activities in this industry. In the next decade, only 100 fields will be built in the Norwegian sector – most of them small, but also large, fields, such as Johan Sverdrup and Edvard Grieg. The total cost of these expansions is estimated at 900 billion. kr. The Norwegian supplier industry, which is world leader in several equipment areas for the oil industry, has problems recruiting professionals from Norway in most disciplines. The Progress Party will work to speed up the processing of applications for a work permit for recruiting professionals from outside the EEA territory. The Progress Party will actively promote the use of more of the gas resources in value creation, industrial development and innovation in our country. Authorisation for the construction of gas power plants must be granted. When CO2 cleaning techniques are available, emissions may be purified. The Norwegian production of aluminium is world leader. New aluminium production works are ready to continue. Gas power will be an environmentally acceptable energy driver for aluminium production. The alternative budget of the Progress Party includes 20 million. for strengthening gas infrastructure. The Progress Party will strengthen the commitment to renewable energy. Renewable energy potential is high. Hydropower points out as the energy form that has the greatest potential. The scheme of green certificates shall stimulate the production of renewable energy. The Party considers that better framework conditions should be provided for the use of hydropower for both large and small plants. The Progress Party assumes that the NVE priorities the most profitable projects only when the projects are subject to concession treatment and that this process is simplified. The Progress Party is very concerned that our industry will be given the same conditions as foreign competitors. The party will work to get Norwegian companies to rent power plants for 30 years towards today 15 years. This will provide a predictable time of production, allowing the power-processing industry to be in Norway and to be able to expand here. Enova was created to stimulate renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. The former is now covered by green certificates and therefore the budget of Enova can be reduced. The Progress Party wants to stimulate the rational use of energy. Enova will stimulate the industry to implement cost-effective additional projects, and today’s projects will continue. The Progress Party will provide tax credits for energy and environmental measures in private homes with a technology-neutral approach. From 2013, Enova’s household programme should be converted into a tax deduction or white certificate scheme. The Norwegian economy is now going very well. Only in 2012 will the government budget's surplus be as high as 390 billion. kr. The Progress Party is committed to reaching, while the State budget surpluses are high, a greater proportion than today should be used domestically. The Progress Party will distinguish between investment and consumption — investments in infrastructure such as roads, schools, in the health sector in the form of hardware, and not least research and development at all ages. Such a consumption of money, which will have to go beyond the framework of the rule of action, will improve our ability to deal with times after the oil and gas industries. It is a pleasure to experience that more and more leading economists share the view of the Progress Party, that we can spend more than the amount contained in the action rule on infrastructure. We in the Progress Party have argued this for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3693	We have left behind the last budgetary work in the committee during this big-time period. It is very gratifying to see that the three non-socialist parties have been united in many joint committee remarks, and that there has been a very good tone between us. The good tone also includes the Party Left, even if they are not in the Committee today. Promises good for the future. Right means that the spread of power makes society stronger. Strengthening local self-government and much more respect for private ownership are important foundations for such a spread of power. In recent years, the right of access to large areas and values have shifted from local government to state government. This process is experienced in many places as a crisis of confidence between local communities and central government. Right? I think there's a need for a new model of environmental and land management to create a better balance between state and local governance, where the concerns of individuals and local communities are taken care of far better than today. Right will develop a new model of natural and environmental management based on ownership principles and local self-government. This can be done safely when the land management framework is still created by state powers. It means spread of power in practice. On the right, planning and building laws are being changed to strengthen local self-government in land-related matters and to make it real. Government powers shall no longer be able to object solely on the grounds of discretion. A good example of state overmanagement is in the municipality of Flora in Sogn and Fjordane, where a private developer wanted to build three cabins at Endestadvatnet. The regulatory plan was drawn up in accordance with the municipal guidelines for this area. There were no neighboring protests against the plan. The Plan and Development Selection in the municipality of Flora agreed with the plan on 16 June 2009. Due to correspondence from County State and comments from the Directorate for Nature Management, the regulatory plan was sent to the Ministry for Environmental Protection for final approval. The Ministry of the Environment supports the State’s contradictions and rejects the plan in Decision No 29 June 2011. The Civil Ombudsman is very critical of the Ministry of the Environment's handling of this matter. Right wants local authorities to make their own decisions on such matters. Greater local jurisdiction will lead to greater legitimacy of decisions taken and bureaucratic duplication of work can be eliminated. In this specific case, the municipality would say the decision was final, and the lodgers could implement their plans. Right means that the management of natural resources and natural areas has not found its finite form in Norway. Despite the fact that the new natural disaster law provides for more local administration, practical policies show that this is far from the case. Three basic ownership teams in Valdres had a strong desire to try out a model with basic ownership management. They call him the Fullsenn model. They would, through cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and other public authorities, have approved a management plan that the landowners themselves could enforce. Right, I think it's very regrettable that this was rejected by the government when the case of the Ormtjerfight national park was handled. This would be a good way to test out a new management model that could give greater power. Right wants to implement several important steps to strengthen the local self-government. We want the naturalists to be added to the municipalities covered by the protection areas, instead of being added to government powers. That's why the Right suggests moving 45 million. kr to local nature administrators from DN to the municipalities of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Right also wants to leave the administration of national parks, landscape areas, nature reserves and other protected areas to the municipalities that are being protected. So we're going to move 65 million. for actions in the protected areas from the State nature monitoring to the municipalities. Last year we witnessed many outrages from state authorities in my home state, Sogn and Fjordane. In addition to the cases in the municipality of Flora, the Civilombodsman has been critical of the foundation for moving a new 420 kV line in Bremen, and the local population lacks confidence in the Ministry of Oil and Energy when it comes to moving lines. The last thing, which is perhaps the most serious, is about the role of state authorities when it comes to state nets digging in the river Nausta, which is one of the best salmon rivers in the country and part of a protected watercourse. Control from above or from below is a political choice. For the Right is strengthened, real local democracy, respect for private property rights and trust in government agencies the pillars of a conversion of government to give greater power. We are also ready to implement that in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3733	We build our energy policy in some very central areas. I'll try to take it quickly in the form of strings: An important part of energy policy is to facilitate industry and industrial development, so that we create jobs and development. The exploitation of natural resources shall benefit the people. We ensure that through strong public ownership and the concession system. Offshore activity must generate activity on land. It's about knowledge and competence. We need to keep the economy in order, and through long-term, predictable and offensive energy policies, we are laying the foundation for growth and development. It's not least about housing, it's about competence, and it's about keeping your youth in the districts. Safe and stable supply of energy is one of the most important prerequisites for creating business and growth. Through a large-scale commitment to new renewable energy, energy saving and transmission systems, we have taken great steps to secure energy supply in Norway. There's no doubt about it. We've been betting on Enova. Enova has been given the responsibility of following up the government’s commitment to energy and climate technology through a strengthening of the fund capital in 2013 and the earmarking of the return. Through the electricity licence market, we have provided a total of 26.4 TWh of new renewable energy in Norway and Sweden. We have increased the processing capacity of NVE and OED, and through the online message we have been committed to a large-scale upgrade of the power grid in Norway. In addition, through the guarantee scheme for long-term power contracts and the CO2 compensation scheme, we also strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. It was very well received. Through strict rules that ensure public ownership and the preservation of the right of return, we have ensured that the public should be the owner of Norwegian power resources. The Labour Party and the Government will ensure that the people's resources are under the people's ownership. The natural resources belong to the people and cannot be sold forever to private or foreign actors. It looks as if the Right Party and the Advance Party have been in the brink of selling people's resources locally and nationally. In its proposal for a programme, the right says: ‘Private and municipal owners of hydropower resources should be treated in the same way as the State as owner. It is therefore necessary to amend the rules on withdrawal.’» The Progress Party in its programme proposal says that they have no counter-representation against private ownership where appropriate. The party considered appropriate in other policy areas is that private individuals should be allowed to profit at the expense of public services and the interests of the community, such as health, school, etc. The right to return was introduced at the beginning of the 20th century. Forms used by these batches open up for selling power resources both locally and nationally. The formulations in the Right Programme open up for the sale of Norwegian power resources to the rest of the world. The proposal is so extreme that it also leads to reactions internally in the Right. The force veterans, with about 300 years of experience in the energy industry combined, say the following about the Right proposal: «Higher proposals will result in large-scale sales of public hydroelectric power plants to foreign energy groups». It says, among other things: Hans Haakon Faanes, professor of electrical engineering. Faanes is “dismayed” at the fact that the Right and Advance Party – at least according to the programme proposals – agree that they will repeal the principle of a fall-back, which ensures public ownership of Norwegian hydropower. Together with the rest of the ‘Energy Terans’, an alliance of ex-chefers in particular: State power, Hydro, NVE and Statoil strongly warns against the proposal to treat private and public as owners of Norwegian hydropower. So together they have 300 years of professional experience in the power industry. They call this, if implemented, a ‘catastrophe’. The alliance believes it will pave the way for foreign companies to acquire full ownership of the important natural resources. You have to listen to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3781	Energy and environmental areas are closely linked. Norway is a major power in the supply of vital energy resources, while having a fantastic nature and a clean environment to take care of. This combination I believe Norway has been able to maintain through generations in an excellent way. Hydropower has given us a clean and renewable energy resource, which in turn has given us employment and housing in all parts of the country. This has happened without damage to nature and the environment. Oil and gas production is recent, but has now been a reality for more than half a hundred years. This production, too, has not affected our nature and our environment. Today, extensive research and development is being carried out in order to exploit several types of renewable energy, and there are great opportunities in Norway. We have wind, we have waves, we have tide, and we have sun. All of this is good energy sources that can be exploited. A large part of our value creation and our well-being are built on the exploitation of these valuable energy resources, and I am glad that the policy is designed to make use of these resources while taking care of nature and our environment. When we know that the petroleum sector in 2011 stood for 23 pst. of the total value creation in Norway, it must be allowed to have high expectations for this sector even in the coming period. In particular, it is understandable that these expectations are high in the northern part of the country, where the petroleum sector is only in the start-up phase, but where we know that there are very large oil and gas reserves that can be exploited. Norwegian petroleum industry holds a very high standard in terms of environment and climate, and it is getting better and better because of new technologies and better skills. This makes me confident that the petroleum industry can also develop well in the north in a co-existence with fisheries, aquaculture and other industries. In the north, the age of petroleum is at the very beginning, but we already see the positive effects of this industry in terms of e.g.: the development of population, employment and industrial development. The northernmost part of the country has received considerable and positive attention, which means that the young people again take an interest in living in this precarious part of the country. Here we can just look at, for example. developments in Hammerfest, in Harstad and in Lake Sandness. I am pleased that, in my last budget debate in the United Kingdom, I can see that the northern part of the country is in such a positive development. The explanation for this is that the government has invested so heavily in the northern regions, and the fact that the petroleum age has finally reached the northern part of the country, and I warmly welcome this. There is also reason to commend the government for its focus on the environment. This is also demonstrated by the strengthening of this budget throughout the time that the current government and the government parties in the Grand Duchy have had a majority. We are making this effort because we want future generations to experience sustainable development and that our history should be well documented. From the Workers' Party it is important to take care of nature because we are so dependent on it, but of course also because it has such a great value in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3807	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3810	Having a conscious view of energy and industrial policy in the country is important, both for the environment and, of course, for industry and employment. Many have, over time, taken the view that the best thing to do is to get rid of the powerful industry, so as to get rid of an environmental sin and release electricity. Luckily, most people have realized that such relationships are wrong and would give the sting the opposite effect, at least if we look at the environment in a global perspective. Nevertheless, there are still some who believe that the imposition of specific taxes on this industry, which is completely different from the industry with which they compete, will mean that the industry will become clean and thus make a positive contribution to the environment. I'm afraid the context is not like this. The worst thing that can happen, both for employment and industrial production, and not least for the environment, is that this industry is flagging out of the country. For as far as we can look forward today, the metals produced today in Norway will have to be produced in other countries because the need for such metals remains to the greatest extent present. If metal production is established in countries where environmental requirements are not in line with the requirements we impose here in Norway, the environmental burden will be exacerbated. Of course, we still have to impose strict environmental requirements on this industry. The requirements shall be designed in such a way that they are achievable and are also appropriate in a competitive context. This has been done for many years now. The result has been that today we have the world's purest powerful industry. This is not least due to the fact that the power or energy used is pure hydropower, but also recovered energy from such an industry. Politically determined power agreements are no longer possible. This means that the industry itself must conclude power contracts in the market. However, like many other countries in Europe, we can develop individual elements that both protect and improve the environment and facilitate continued power-intensive industrial production in this country. And then, in sum, we can call this a new and modern industrial power regime. Such elements include the incorporation of the Trade Directive, green certificates, guarantee scheme for long-term power contracts and, as has now been introduced, CO2 compensation in the electricity price. The Norwegian power-intensive industry is, and must remain, the world leader in efficiency, for example. by energy binding. Actions contribute to enhancing competitiveness, while reducing the climate impact of the production of power-intensive goods. It is essential to have good incentives for energy efficiency and recovery measures, whether through Enova grants or the electricity tax regime. That's what the government is adding up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3827	Today, there are 17 approved National Parks Centres in Norway. These centres are the major community's contribution back to the community that gets its area tied in with the creation of national parks. These centers will receive a government grant of $800,000. Four of them have a double charge for being responsible for two national parks. Right, it's unthinkable that four National Parks Centres get double support from the state regardless of the activity and size of the centre, especially with the background that there's a new strategy paper to facilitate the award of credits. Jostedalsbreen National Park Centre in Stryn was the first national park centre in Norway and has many exciting activities that give a lot of knowledge about the national park. I had a written question to the Council of State about the state support of the Jostedalsbreen National Park Centre some time ago, and it was disappointing that the Council of State in reply placed greater emphasis on old political leaders than on the overall level of activity when it was to award a grant to the National Park Centres. Right expects this to be corrected at the next level, and that it is the total level of activity that will form the basis for the government's government in the future. So to another thing. Gyro is one of the most serious threats to Norwegian wildax files today. 45 salmon populations have been lost, and one third of salmon populations are still threatened. Acid precipitation is also a serious threat to Norwegian salmon populations. According to NINA, the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, 25 local salmon populations have been eradicated as a result of acid rain. Hunting and fishing rights are an important part of private ownership. For landowners, these rights provide revenues, as well as important recreational services. The voluntary efforts of the Norwegian Hunters’ and Fishers’ Federations and other volunteers to combat acidification and gyro are very important. In its alternative 2013 budget proposal, the Right has increased the scope of State environmental measures by 20 million. In addition to the government's proposal. Of this, 10 million is going to be going to be. kr go to extra bet on the fight against gyro, and 10 mill. kr should be allowed to increase the permissions to liming. This will be an important contribution to securing the wild fish population in Norway, and to supporting the important work of landowners, organisations and volunteers to facilitate the fishing of wild fish in the future. So I could have talked a lot about predatory game politics, but I want to remember that there's going to be an interpellation debate about this issue in the Stortinge about a week, and then I have great expectations about what the council will answer to how he will actually fulfill the predatory game settlement at the point where the robber won't represent the damage potential in the priority grazing area and the calving area of the tamrein.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3846	Life - style diseases have become our biggest public disease. We're not moving enough. A popular boost to improve this can be a stronger commitment to outdoor life. I have fundamentally more faith in enthusiasm than in moralism. Outdoor activities in some form involve the majority of the population, and with a small effort we can make it even more comprehensive and easier. The solution is not always blood, sweat and tights, but the free 24-hour training studio is located right outside the living room window. Outdoor life includes everything from the small tour of the nearby environment to the great mountain tour. And the great thing about outdoor life is that there are so few rules. When you go on a ski trip, you can both skate and go classical without being washed. There's nothing called offside. Men and women of all ages can practice outdoor life together. Contact with nature gives peace and mastery and is good for mental health as well as for the physical. Using nature and having fun in nature makes us happy in nature, and that's the prerequisite for wanting to take care of nature. Outdoor activities are a central part of Norwegian culture, Norwegian locality and industry. In the budget, the government proposes to grant over 1.8 billion. kr to natural diversity and outdoor life. That's an increase of over 200 million. kr. There is a strengthening of national parks and parks and of outdoor and outdoor activities. The members of the Committee from the Workers’ Party, the SV and the Centre, but for some reason not from the opposition, point out in their comments what is an important requirement of the outdoor organisations, namely a proposal for a large-scale investment in an open-air year in 2015, and we ask the government to consider taking such an initiative. In my view, it must be a cross-ministerial work that includes health, integration, knowledge, transport, culture and the environment. We've been used to being able to use nature for free, and that's the way it should be. But there is a need for stronger organisation so that all groups can enjoy the outdoors. It's about our new countrymen, and it's not least disabled people, like seamen are the group that says that access to nature is most important to them. Therefore, there is a need for an open-air lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3859	The representative Sande began his post almost as a wake-up meeting in South Africa – it was self-crust all the way – and I know that, because I come from South. He says that the things that this government has done are incredibly good. Much of it is good, but self-crust comes straight from the heart. What the representative Sande did, however, was to forget some of the things that the grassroots in the Central Party probably felt when they have agreed to give their consent, for example. the fact that the Centre Party, together with all the other red-green lots in 2004, promised to grant grants to small power plants. It was hardly very popular. When that matter was up in Stortinget, there were very many central party people protesting. Another matter that the representative Sande forgot about was the debate on giving municipalities permission to use snowmobiles. It's also a bad thing for the Center Party. Spatial planning must be a very bad thing. After all, the municipalities have been deprived of all the right to undertake land-use planning, with the blessing of the Centre Party. So you're lying around the barrier line, I actually don't think that's nice. State Council Ola Borten Moe said that now there should be no more messages on paper, now there should be action, now there should be measures. It's a little strange when you subtract this with impact analysis for Lofoten. There you had to get more information even if you had a lot. So life and learning aren't exactly the same, it's more like it's appropriate to say. We in the Progress Party will still point out that an overall assessment of energy and industry, along with other factors, is something we should have in order to govern this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3872	When I heard the representative, Skumsvoll, I didn't quite see the meetings he used to go to. I was in a couple of meetings like that when I was very, very young, and it wasn't very much hallelujah. There it was dark and gloomy, so there I came out from. However, when the representative Skumsvoll calls what Sande says for self-confidence, I know that I want to respond on Sande's behalf. What the representative Sande actually does, tells what this government has actually done. It should be allowed to tell us what we have actually done in politics. We're accused of talking about everyone else's policies, and when we talk about our own policies, it actually has to be legal. But that's not why I asked for the floor. I asked for the word because this debate has done some things much, much clearer to me, and some things have become much more unclear. One thing that's become very clear is that the Progress Party has said crystal clear that they're going out of Mongstad. The left has also said almost as clearly that they're going out of Mongstad. I think it's strange, because it's not long ago, as the Council itself said, that we had this complicated and comprehensive case here in the Chamber, and we had a common understanding of, and we decided together, that we should collectively postpone the investment decision until 2016. As collectively as we were about that decision, we were about Gassnova investigating, monitoring and analysing the possibility of full-scale CO2 management in Norway in addition to Mongstad. It was a survey that is now under way, which should provide us with a better knowledge base on possible CO2 management projects in Norway in both power generation and industry, as others have mentioned here today. What makes me take the floor is that I think we've been together behind this, and we're talking about many, many billion dollars, and it's important that we follow the progress plan. CO2 management is an important energy and climate policy issue. A lot of people were proud when we opened the technology center at Mongstad in May. We have said that, and many in here believe that Norway should be a leading country in both the capture and storage of CO2. To the fact that we've spent so much money: we don't do it because we think it's fun to raise money for things; we do it because we believe that we have a special responsibility as an oil and gas producing nation – one of the largest in the world – and we also have a responsibility because we believe it and believe that we should get it done. That's why Left amazes me. The Progress Party has, in fact, confirmed with the representative Amundsen why they do not want to, because CO2 is in a way not a problem for the Progress Party, it is more a theory. But I'm very glad that the representative Astrup from the Right is so clear that he includes Mongstad in the continuation, if he mentions others as well. Then I hope that the Christian People's Party stands by it – they have not meant anything about the matter – that they also stand by the matter, as we have done, and stand by the project. We're going to be impatient, we're going to push, but I hope it's safe with this project, that we can land it, and that it's safe after 2030 as to what anyone else might think of doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3904	For previous speakers, I can say that the Christian People's Party has absolutely meant things about Mongstad, and that is where we stand – and we have repeated that both now and in, for example. the last climate agreement. Obviously, the commitment that Eirin Sund here shows is good. What the Christian People's Party has criticized is the follow-up. I had a goal of getting to Mongstad a lot earlier than it's expected to be now. The fact that we have pushed the investment decision as far as 2016 – well, that is – is not a signal that you are very eager to get it in. It reminds me that there are a lot of measures that work, like one pushes over to the next government, and then puts one on that it's the government that's going to solve it. We're gonna make sure of that. But I really wanted to talk a little bit about Doha, because there are many who have praised the Environment Minister for the work he did there, and he deserves it absolutely. But I still agree with the considerations of the Council of State for Solhell, the Prime Minister and others, that the Kyoto agreement is only a small step on the way. It was important to have the contract work, but we need so much more. Unfortunately, we are far away from the seriousness of the climate change we are facing. One has to remind himself repeatedly that it's a two-degree goal one fights about. That in itself is serious, and that's why we need action. It brings me to what I think is important. Now this was the first climate summit I attended, but it does not give me much optimism for the international agreement and that a very offensive agreement will be reached in 2015 that will apply for 2020. Norway should be a driving force, yes, but it only shows how important it is for each country to commit itself to cuts — as Norway has been clear to us and others to do — but also for each country to carry out national cuts. When I look at the statistics, Norway is 5.8 pst. In the United Kingdom, the proportion of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the EU increased in the 1990s, compared with, for example, the proportion of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the EU below 1990 levels. Denmark is 21 pst. below 1990 levels. This gives us cause for concern that Norway is not necessarily a leading country in terms of national climate change. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to me that the government is not more offensive in the follow-up to the climate agreement that we discussed instead. So I just have to mention four points. The first is the ‘target of energy efficiency improvement’, which I experience as really just a calculation, not as a goal and not as a desire to cut any more. Point two: ‘Value chain of CO2’, which is only a description of the past — one does not look forward. The FME centres, which we had in mind, were to be included in the next budget. The next budget is 2013 – it is not 2014. And then for oil fires: in Sweden, it is described as the largest single measure, a very important measure. I see that in the agreement with Enova they write that it “can” come. In all of the other points, it says that it's going to be. Here should be an offensive. I can refer you to the Municipality of Oslo, which has good support arrangements. The Prime Minister got him when he replaced, NOK 50 000 – others get NOK 10 000. This should be an example for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3926	When it comes to boasting, it's probably like that for those of us who have been at the wake-up meeting, that we know that that heart is full of, clean your mouth with. It is not meant to boast, but perhaps it was a committed representation of what is the government's policy, and what we have achieved through government cooperation. But there were facts, and to the extent that it could contribute to awakening – in the form of representatives from the opposition in this room being weighted and inspired to travel around to see what is happening in our country – I hope so. This is the way out – I can say to the representative Skumsvoll – that small-scale power plants receive support for production. It's popping up small-scale power plants in the whole country. I recommend the Advance Party to travel and look at them, look at the power generating plants, know the turbines – I would say – and take over the revolution that occurs when it comes to renewable energy production. For differentiated beach zone management: there were no previous governments that introduced it – it was this government, of which the Center Party is part. It is hardly random, since the representative Skumsvoll and the Progress Party are involved in municipal planning. Have them on top of 6 pst. which gave voice to the Central Party in the previous election, obtained an average of 100 pst. by the Centre Party's program? No, they haven't. But I dare say that they have got through for quite a few percent of the Center Party's program and the policy they voted for. After giving the vote to the Progress Party, have the progress party voters achieved some of what was in the Progress Party's programme? No, they don't. It illustrates what one achieves by sitting in government and cooperating with other parties. And then I just want to repeat what I've said about cultural memory here, that one gets to bet on cultural memory, especially with regard to ship protection and coastal culture. This is history and an important part of Norway that has meant an infinite amount to the development of our nation, of our business life and the wealth we have. So there's a reason to cheer here as well. So briefly in the end: The representative Lødemel from the Right says that the setting really shows that the opposition has found the tone in layers. That really doesn't. Maybe there's a good tone, but a good tone isn't enough to form a chord. The condition for a successful cross-appreciation is that you agree on the text, and the text is ambiguous. There is a greater distance now between the Progress Party and the other opposition parties than it has been in some of the previous budget debates of this Committee – and that is a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3941	I hear in the debate on the follow-up to the climate agreement that there are expectations about new support schemes for the removal of oil tank and oil fuel in households. I then need to point out that regardless of expectations about new schemes, it is wrong to claim that there are no aid schemes today, because it does so via Enova. There may not be direct support schemes for the replacement of oil fires, as in the municipality of Oslo, but it is indirectly through support for the creation of new energy saving measures, which lie there, for example. for the introduction of air-to-water heat pump or similar, by up to NOK 10000. I need to nuance the picture a little, when it is very run on that there are no support schemes today. As I said, there may be expectations about new arrangements, but there are at least some via Enova today, which I have also used. I got NOK 10 000 to replace the oil burner. Together with my associate from West Agder, we were actually assigned to Storting's most environmentally friendly representatives a few years ago, among others. because of that. Then I also need to point out that when the representative from the Progress Party opens his speech saying that the red-green government has set up such a huge bureaucracy that there is a need to cut it, I would just like to remind you that there are some who will answer the up to 1000 questions that the Progress Party has asked in connection with the State budget. Some have to prepare all the messages that are requested in the room here, including: energy notification, etc. Who's going to do this if not a bureaucracy? Or is it better to have a private bureaucracy on the page, where you can buy services instead? That would be the result if you were to do the exact same problems as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3950	Let me establish once and for all that Right wants strong public ownership and control of Norwegian hydropower resources. The right does not want to sell out hydropower owned today by public enterprises – municipalities, counties and the state. Is that clear? Good! It also says something about this at the beginning of our programme, before the sentence that is often quoted, and as chairman of the programme committee, Bent Höie, has said publicly – many times on the radio – that is suitable to misunderstand, and that will be changed in the next draft to address the point that I just said. So it's true that we're concerned about the industry, and that the industry should have predictability, as it's had in the last hundred years. That's what we're trying to do in the best possible way, but we have no ambition to reduce public ownership as a consequence. Then I hope that we can put this round behind us, and that the completed articles on how the Right will sell the hydropower to bad foreigners, can now stop. So I'd like to give a visit to the representative who just had the word. She said that the opposition has a expectation of new arrangements to support the phase-out of oil fires. That's not what we expect. We have a expectation that the government will follow the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Anyone who sat around the negotiating table and negotiated the climate agreement knows that for the Right, there was a clear prerequisite for supporting a ban on oil fires from 2020 – or fossil oil firing, in order to be precise – that new support schemes from 2013 were in place that contribute to making it economically possible for households to make the switch in such a short time. It was important to us. It is clear from the suspension, not from the request decision, but from the suspension, that there are arrangements other than those that Enova already has. Examples are also mentioned, such as: tax deductions, etc., on possible measures that can be put into action. So this is all about the fact that the government in itself has a little ambitious follow-up to what we're agreed on, and it's not just this point. The representative, Ropstad, has mentioned several examples of other issues that the government should have followed up on. It's worth remembering that when the opposition enters into an agreement with the government parties, one year before a election, it's because we want things to be done before we win the election – if not we can just do it afterwards. It looks like we're going to have to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3965	There are two specific aspects that I feel like commenting on. One is the latter, i.e. the intention of the climate agreement and the agreement that aid should be granted for phase-out of oil fires. We are now working under pressure to put in place both a new agreement and a new tool use under Enova. I should not be surprised if this agreement contains exactly the arrangements requested by the representatives of the opposition. Now we're still a good piece from 2013, and I don't think it's going to go far into 2013 until this is on the run. So if there's no bigger thing to worry about, I think this is under control. Then it's the other thing that has been mentioned several times here related to the concession treatment of the line Ørskog-Sogndal. I feel a strong need to say, also from this pulpit, that everything that has happened in that treatment has really happened according to the laws and regulations that have been passed, among other things. in Storting, by common administrative practice. But then it's like once you don't build 30 miles of high-speed without anyone being offended, without getting close to where people live and without touching Norwegian nature. Of course, this concession treatment is also an expression. The criticism that has come from the opposition, partly in connection with this budget debate, is that things have taken a long time. To refer to a representative from this pulpit a little while ago: we don't need to spend ten years making decisions. In this case, we have spent almost ten years. It's been a very long time since you started working on this line. Now the dot is set, now the line is constructed. Of course, we should respect that people don't want this line near where they live, and we should respect that people don't want this in the vicinity of pristine nature. But all the time this line has to be built anyway, it is my job to make sure that it is made as efficient, efficient and well as possible. Let me just repeat: this is my responsibility, this has happened in the usual way and after the book. It makes me feel a certain need to get away from all the claims and insinuations that it has been taken into account that should not have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3982	When it comes to Ørskog-Fardal concession treatment, it may seem as if there is a shorter route and that one becomes easier to hear when it is a party trap to the Council of State that has in a way been reappointed the benefits of the move that has been registered. You have to expect reactions to occur when you end up moving the line into an area that would otherwise be untouched - even if the line were to be wired. Otherwise, I will take a little tour of the representative Tor-Arne Stroem, who refers to a professor and announces that he has come with when it concerns water power and water power in games. It is such that very little of the power generation is in private ownership – about 12 pst. It's not the very large part of the production we're discussing. The question is whether it's so crazy that Norsk Hydro owns a part of our power plant. Have they not been involved in processing the power that has been produced and building the country on the same line? Now it is also such that KLP recently bought in with a significant party in German Kraft. Would it be impossible to imagine that other Norwegian suppliers of life and pension insurance would be owners? There are many Norwegian municipalities and others that receive their pensions from companies other than KLP. Would it be so impossible to imagine that this type of company could be co-owners? Further to the representatives Stroem and Arnesen, who are working to advance the petroleum sector. They're doing a good job. In particular, the signature, which comes from More and Romesdal, sees the importance of this industry – one has approx. 22 000 jobs in this sector — and know how important he is to incomes in the country. It must be a little special for these two vessels to the right representative from SV, who says that two thirds of the resources in the petroleum sector will remain on the bottom of the sea. It must be a little special for Stroem and Arnesen to have a colleague of government who is now talking about shutting down and almost shutting down this kind of activity, especially now that the northernmost part of the country is lucky enough to be on this adventure that the petroleum industry has been, both for the parts of the country that have taken part in it, for the community and not least for the pensions of the Norwegian people in the future. Finally, this with cracking in relation to the signal: I guess there's nothing that cracks more than one of these statements that we belong to here from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3995	The representative, Mr Egeland, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e3999	I'm not talking about two thirds, but IEA is talking about two thirds. That means that we obviously have room to protect important areas. Then Lofoten is such an area. There's been a lot of talk about awakening meetings here. I've also been to recreation meetings in South Africa. I can't say that it was self-esteem that was dominant, that was more confession. Then I also have a confession to join before the meeting is over, because I was sorry that I said that the opposition was not in one year of open-air life. That's not right. There's an overall committee that's in favour of it. Once that confession has been made, we can all be happy for the sake of outdoor life. Then I will also give Nikolai Astrup an opportunity to make a confession. I am quite sure that he has been involved in tax deductions, but that it has not been mentioned as an instrument in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4008	This option allows you to see the notification text in the current font. The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4013	Then I'll have to come with my approval. There is an incursion in one of the notes under State Water Measures, a slight effusion on page 57 of the Innst. 9 S for 2012–2013 that I take responsibility for has not arrived. There is a joint remark from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which ‘Where volunteers from local and national fisheries organisations have participated in the treatment of gyro or acidification, the aim must be to make the watercourse – through voluntary agreements – sufficiently available for the open-ended fish card.’ The voluntary agreements that one here talks about and the interpretation that will lie in the appointment are, of course, a voluntary agreement with landowners. That's my interpretation of that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4025	First to the representative Astrup: It's clear it's allowed to draw the program proposal in terms of relapse and come up with better thoughts, but that's how most of us can read, and we see what stood there. You might start getting cold feet. So we saw another attack that came today, from the representative of Tetzschner, on the health pay scheme. That suits us perfectly. When it comes to oil and gas, if the Christian People's Party and the Left are to be part of the government together with the Advance Party and the Right – if that is the case – you also have a challenge in relation to it, so I think we have all ours in each of our places. In the end — if I get permission and time to do so — I want the National Assembly to hear what the county council in Northern Ireland thinks about Northland VI and VII and Troms II. There was a press release in local language at home, Harstad Official Journal, Friday 7 December 2012. It said that Nordland County ‘considers that Northland VI must be opened up for exploration in the autumn of 2013 and that there must be an impact assessment on petroleum activity in Northland VII and Troms II during 2014. The initiative came from Ap, Right and Frp.’ In addition, it says: ‘A significant amount of knowledge has been gathered from the areas in recent years. This knowledge must form the basis for the rapid start-up and implementation of an impact assessment with a view to opening up. The areas of Northern Ireland VI that are already impact-examined but that have been temporarily closed may be immediately open to activity. Nordland County emphasises that exploration and possible extraction from findings must be based on technologies that provide serious environmental, safety and co-existence concerns with the fishing and tourism industries. It is assumed that a strict drilling time window is added to enable a real coexistence with other industries. In the same way as in the areas already identified, it is necessary to avoid activity during, inter alia, gythic season.» Reference to the press release is also important in terms of what the Nordic community thinks about oil and gas. I think it's right that all the parties take this forward, not least in view of the Lofoten and the Vestral and what the municipalities have done there. One municipality has opposed oil activity in these areas, and it is the municipality of Røst. So when you make these things like you don't want activity up there, it's wrong. I think it is important to relate to the regional level – so that was the county council statement I referred to earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4048	I wanted to take the word to bring some attention around a note on page 66 in the setting from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, to which I find it strange that the government does not join. It's about Folla River. It's a dead river. It's been since the 1990s, since the runoff from the mines started. All time limits for cleaning up have been missed, and it is the Ministry of Industry that is the mine owner. The fact that the government does not agree with such a comment makes me believe in the SV-goods rapporteur in Folldal, who claims that there is a serious discrimination between public and private owners. Had Orkla been the owner, I'm pretty sure the Ministry of the Environment had not been so passive. And when you've gone into it a little bit, you get the impression that there's a huge unsolved process. There's a lot of money there to get cleaned up, and it's been pretty closed, so I'll encourage the council to look up a little bit from the iPad and go into that process. It is the Ministry of Economic Affairs that is the owner, all the deadlines are missed, and I don't think the Swedish Government would have been equally prepared not to do anything if it had been a private owner. I am very strong for the polluter-pays principle. But when you compare it to a judgment we just got in Elverum, where a landowner who has fixed up land for three generations has suddenly been required to clean up that land and pay the cost of cleaning up because the one who has contaminated cannot settle separately, it becomes strange with the inaction the department shows with respect to Folla River. Here I think you have two boundaries to go. One is that the public actually has to treat itself in the same way as the private ones. The second is that you might have to consider how far the polluter pays principle should be drawn in relation to an innocent third party. The judgment given in Elverum really means that if a tanker trailer overturns in your garden, and the trailer driver does not have insurance and goes bankrupt, the gardener may be required to pay the cleaning up. It would be very unfair and would be contrary to any sound legal principle – in my opinion. But lawyers have explained to me that the principle in the judgment of the Elverum means just that. Here are two things to consider: non-discrimination between public and private owners and perhaps a limit on how far to draw the polluter pays principle from third parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4059	This is a fact-finding to the representative Sande. It is wrong that all those building power plants between 2004 and 7 September 2009 receive grants. Those who build after the red-green government decided to introduce certificates – 7 September 2009 – receive grants. That is why 150 representatives of the small power plants demonstrated on the outside here as this case was being dealt with in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4064	In any case, the debate this evening has posed a major challenge to voters who are concerned about climate change when it comes to focusing on the landscape. I think the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are going high in criticising the government for not being offensive enough in environmental policy – especially in climate – they are simply disappointed that this government has done nothing more. Then they go to the choice of a superior goal, that's a government change. Both the Christian People's Party and the Left have said once after that they want a bourgeois government. But there can't be a civil government without the Progress Party. And what is the Progress Party for in this debate when it comes to climate? It's almost so they deny that there are climate problems, at least they deny the anthropogenic climate deterioration. There's no logic in that they skip it and they should be with and form a government with someone so far away from their own policies. It won't be easy to choose and be busy with the climate and should be oriented over the next option. So until Nikolai Astrup that now emphasizes once again that Right won't sell out public owned water power. It's just the water power plant that's not public owned, it's – 12 pst. – and which have concessional terms and conditions under which the right of withdrawal shall apply to them. The question is, shall they return to the public, as the right of way says, or shall they be sold on the open market? And could foreign owners possibly come in and take over? Once, I listened to Nikolai Astrup at Political Quarter explaining how they went in so that the State would have a right to pre-empt. But it's up to the government, or what makes up the majority of the state at any time, if one wants to exercise that right of pre-emption. The only thing safe and solid to ensure the people's property is that we have the right to return, and that those who are now subject to the obligation to withdraw from the concession are also brought up so that it becomes public property. That's what this government stands for – safely and well – and that's what the Norwegian people will notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4073	It reminds me a little bit of a parody when the previous speaker is talking about the importance of having full public ownership of the power resources, while at the same time the red-green parties are trying to sell out parts of Trom's Power to the Swedes, and it's the Progress Party in Troms that is trying to stop it. Rather, we have to deal with facts instead of making artificial conflicts. I have recorded that many red-green politicians have tried to boast of long-term, targeted political governance, both in oil and energy policy and in climate policy. Then it is a little strange to have registered that it took seven years before the government was able to present its oil message, and that parts of the government – even in this debate – have taken away from the oil message that they themselves had received. It doesn't seem very long-term or very complete. It will be a bit like that of the management plan, adopted in 2006 and revised in 2010, that what was announced in 2006 was cancelled by the Workers' Party in 2010. There were then new victories in the small corner of SV, but they are probably also cancelled at the next audit. At least it should help the Progress Party when we are in government. It would have been very fine if the red-green could at least stand behind a common policy when they argue in this room, instead of pretending that there is very big discord on the civil side. What pleased me most about the negotiations on a climate settlement was to see how easy it was for the bourgeois parties to agree on many points of view. Unfortunately, the coalition was broken by political games, because SV could not admit that a bourgeois majority would pursue a more offensive and entrepreneurial climate policy than the current government can. But that we're going to get it done, I'm not at least in doubt about it. We also want to work to put an end to these paradoxes that the government is constantly introducing. The government now has, among other things, removed both the Cultural Memory Fund and the Research Fund because it was an inappropriate way to finance important actions, but introduces a climate action fund funded in exactly the same inappropriate way. There is nothing more to do than to trick the environmental movement into believing that you are offensive, while the government is actually using approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr less on climate action than they would have done if they had chosen the Progress Party model. So finally, hydropower: if you're going to try to have a substantive debate on this, I'm going to encourage the red-greens to at least quote correctly when they attack, for example. The party of progress. When you hear the representative Rudihagen, the representative Sande and the representative Stroem, it seems like you can't read a whole sentence before you get exhausted. One stops at the first comma and says that it goes terribly wrong if the Progress Party believes that the hydropower will benefit the industry. If one had read the whole section, one would have seen that the Progress Party assumes that there will be industrial workplaces in Norway, value creation in Norway, head office in Norway, and then any logic says that there is no reason why the Advance Party should want to sell the hydropower out of the country. When we underline this time and again, I do not understand why it is a point for the Workers' Party to take up that debate – except to try to confuse the voters and scare them with positions that the Progress Party does not have, and that does not help the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4086	I have a few points of view after the debate today that I was going to raise now. One is about the oil and energy minister, and then I want to go back to the presentation of the knowledge acquisition in Svolvær a few weeks ago. I have to say, I think it is very special that the Council of State uses it to promote personal opinions on what is going to be the Central Party's programme for the next majority period. When the Council of State is present on such occasions, I take it as a matter of course that the Council of State represents the Government, and that what the Council of State is saying from a pulpit is like the Minister of Oil and Energy and not like the private person Ola Borten Moe in a program recording to the Central Party. I don't really think I hear that anywhere at home, and I understand very well that it has created a lot of uncertainty about what the government actually means. To the representative of Tor-Arne Ström, I would like to suggest that the Labour Party representative take this statement from Nordland County and read it to his colleagues in the working party in Oslo Arbeiderpartei, who have a decision – if I do not remember correctly – that they do not want activity outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja. Perhaps the representative Stroem has a job to do at home before he goes to this pulpit and later as the Workers' Party is united in the view of activity outside these important areas. So I also think it's a little arrogant to say that one has now realized all the important energy policy issues, that there's almost nothing more to do in the energy field for those who had to come after. Then I want to point out a few elements, some challenges: we stand, among other things. in front of large investments in the network – in the central and underlying networks. We could read about Elkem, who expects many millions of dollars in tariffs. The same is true of Norwegian Forest. This means that what they had to get from CO2 compensation in the scheme to come into force on 1 July is probably eaten up by what the industry has to pay more in tariffs to Statnet because of this development. We have repeatedly asked the Right to have a discussion on the cost distribution of these violent investments that will take place in the future, but this has not been the intention of the Government and the Government at all. Another area in which I believe the government has failed to use the space for action — be aggressive enough — is the strengthening of our inter-national relations with Europe. There are expansions of capacity, yes, but on a very close scale and at a pace that we need to build our business environments further in new renewable production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4103	The President will note that the use of the word "arrogant" is on the verge of being unparliamentary. The next speaker is the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad. He has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4108	There are two things: it was the Minister of Energy who also made me speak. He said something like that that if it wasn't any more we were worried about in terms of oil fires, it would solve itself. What's interesting is that Solhjell says that the agreement with Enova and what's to come, while State Councillor Borten Moe says that a new agreement with Enova is in progress and will solve the problems that we pointed out. In that case, it's new information. I referred to the agreement that the government made with Enova on 28 June 2012, and I thought that was the solution. So one more point: it's interesting that state councillor Borten Moe now comes and says that at the press conference in Svolvær he represented himself. He did not represent the Center Party, he did not represent the government, he was not the Council of State. And that wasn't just the statements there -- it was also the press release from the OED, on paper from the OED. At least it's very difficult for the opposition to know what to do with what to do, what to do with government policy, when you can't even rely on press releases that go out to state council. Away from the name of Moe from the Ministry of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4116	The representative Tor-Arne Stroem has also spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4119	I think it's important to be honest. No one has said either that there is agreement in the government or that there is full agreement in the Workers' Party. But as I said, we are going to deal with this matter at our national meeting in April. It is also important to give signals about what the district believes, what the county believes and what it means in the districts, among others. on this matter. We've got good solutions before. We have never had as high a level of activity on a Norwegian base as we have today, and I am reasonably sure that we will succeed in finding good solutions in this matter as well. If there were to be a different result against assumption, another government, you might not be – I don't know if it is a parliamentary expression – then ‘high and dark’ because you might also have some challenges with the constellations at the next crossroads. It also applies to the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4126	The political disagreement between position and opposition is large enough to require the construction of imaginary issues, imaginary disagreement. Then, of course, I show that they have tried to present it as if the Progress Party wanted to sell out Norwegian hydropower. It is – with all due respect – the purest nonsense, and therefore I allow myself to establish this once and for all and refer to the new draft programme that the Progress Party has put on the table. And so there's no disagreement here. It reads as follows: The Progress Party will continue to ensure national control of natural resources to ensure that jobs, head offices and development work are located in Norway. However, Norwegian industry should be able to own hydropower – brand – when this strengthens the competitiveness of industry and is used to secure jobs in Norway. The Progress Party will not sell Norwegian hydropower to Sweden – it is the Workers' Party that has mainly served in Troms. Let's just establish it once and for all. So to Sund: Yes, it is right that the Progress Party puts its foot down for full scale cleaning on Mongstad. That is quite correct, and it is simply because this is going to be a government-owned waste of money that cannot be defended when there are so many other alternatives out there that are willing to make tenders. And then I ask myself the question: The moon landing in Mongstad has gone out in time. Ten years is the shortest interval from the decision to full scale cleaning. Then I dare remember that from John F. Kennedy in 1961 proclaimed that the American flag should be placed on the moon, it took only eight years. This government spends more time doing full-scale cleaning in Mongstad than the Americans used to place a man on the moon. It tells you a little bit about the insidiousness of this project, and then it's time to put your foot down. Enough! Testing, yeah. Technology – great. But: Full-scale cleaning in Mongstad has nothing to do with it. So to this whole climate debate: No, the Progress Party does not deny that human activity can affect the climate. On the contrary. What we're asking questions about is the extent of the natural climatic variations that exist at all times. That's the question, and that's the problem that scientists don't agree on. That's just what we're pointing at. We do not draw scientific conclusions, but it must be allowed to ask questions about politically correct truths.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4137	The President will note that the use of the word ‘sludder’ is unparliamentary, and the President believes that the representative also understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4140	There are some things in the debate I feel the need to comment. First and foremost, repeated allegations that there is a lot of belonging that has determined the route of the high-voltage line between Ørskog and Fardal. It's once like this that I think it's completely impossible to place 30 miles of high voltage in this area without hitting the center party members, whether you add it to one or the other line. I guess there are things that indicate that the number of center members is a little bit decreasing in the Myklebust Valley, but that's the way it is. It is part of the job to make an overall assessment and make sure to get this line out. All doors have been open in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Anyone who has had something they have wanted to say in this matter has been warmly welcome to contribute to it. So to Svolvær, there's no doubt that if you're an oil and energy minister, or a government council at all, you're a government council all the time. However, it is not the same – of course – as being cut off from thinking about what is going to be one's own party's programme and opinions for the next big period, nor about what is going on in the social debate. So taking criticism more on a general basis, linked to having positions that extend further and go beyond what is always presenting government policy, I don't accept that. I think it must of course be that you are free to participate in the word change. So to this with agreement and Enova. There I was inaccurate. An agreement has been concluded with Enova, which is the operationalisation of this agreement which is now due to take place. My particular opinion is that the operationalisation of that agreement will involve aid schemes for phase-out of oil firing, in line with the climate agreement. There is also a task that Enova is financially able to handle, not least as a result of the decisions taken here today. In the case of networks, it was dealt with in a separate staging message in this room, with a large connection. Everyone agreed with the ambition to build much more networks in Norway and felt that this was sensible and necessary. It is obvious that it costs money and that someone has to pay; there are very few other people than us living in this country, who are going to pick up the bill, and the industry has to take its share of it. That being said, it's also important to point to the totality. Industry does not pay for green certificates and industry does not pay for compensation schemes for CO2. Looking at the totality of the framework conditions for the Norwegian power-intensive industry, there is no doubt that they are getting better and better, although there are different factors that are moving in different directions. In the case of inter-territorial connections: there are never as many inter-territorial connections as are to be built in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4156	I need to make a few comments on the question of phase-out of oil firing and the instrument, not least directed towards household. Two different places in the climate agreement – and I can assure the assembly that I know it relatively well and follow it very closely – are mentioned in various decisions: one on phase-out of oil firing, which states that there should be support schemes. Support schemes have been put in place since 2013. The most offensive thing in a decision comes a little further down, where it says that the government should present it, but it's not numerical. Then, at different times in a previous debate in the Stortinget and in the media, there were allegations that the climate agreement was broken. I've reacted to that. I don't agree with that. In the context of the budget, we prioritised doing – as a dot – everything we had to do in the budget to meet it. But it was one month's effective working time for the budget, which requires you to work a little bit on it and go into it, and then we have to do it. And as I said earlier today: there are support schemes from 2013, but to meet the very ambitious target of phase-out of oil firing by 2020, there will definitely be a need for both the one and the other in the future. The oil and energy minister has now named Enova, and we can be sure that we will come back with different things in the years to come. It must be made clear – as is also stated in the climate agreement – how it should be done, and there is no doubt that there are also other aspects of what needs to be debated if one is to trigger that objective. The lesson of this is maybe that once we've made a deal, we should be careful to talk before we claim it's broken, and that from the government's side to the best of our ability we have to follow it up just as it says. That's a little bit of what the opposition is now expecting of us. If I am finally allowed, I would like to thank you for the debate by saying briefly: The Doha Climate Summit made some important decisions, but I think it is quite precisely described by several here that both Kyoto 2 and other things that are agreed, are themselves most important because the table is now cleared for the really important work of trying to reach an agreement where all the major and important emissions countries in the world are involved in the years that are coming. It's going to be an extremely demanding political challenge. How Norway can contribute to it, I think, is a core challenge for all parties here on the Storting, at least the ones who are busy with it, for years to come. How can we get countries like China and the United States? What are we going to do with the needs we want before that agreement comes into force, with more right-wing initiatives? How are we going to get other countries to step up climate finance, as Norway does? A necessary part of it must be to land in the south. And the debate that we've started here so far, I think we'll come back to this room many times in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4167	The representative, Erling Sande, had the floor twice earlier in the debate and was given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4170	Completely short: The comments that have been from both the Right and the Progress Party now around the ownership of the water force are a good signal, even if one says that one has no goal or plan to sell out these power plants. I want to say that there's still a difference between that and what the government says, that it's an independent goal that these values are in ownership and under the control of the public. So Ketil Solvik-Olsen says that this is a very limited industry that currently has power and that has Norwegian jobs, head office, etc. in Norway. Well, this model was debated when a decided and discussed relapse in Stortinget at the previous crossroads, and was not supported by the lawyers who can assess what is robust in relation to the EEA agreement that we are under. And then one has to understand that we get confused when the representative Grimstad ten minutes before asking if it might be so crazy that for example. private pension funds are owned by them. I ask you to understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4179	The representative of Irene Johansen has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4182	I also need to underline something of the same as the representative Sande, namely that it is very interesting to hear in this debate tonight that both the Right Party and the Advance Party are now referring to new programmes for the next period, where, unlike the first draft, they are not going to sell out the hydropower. I have to say that it is quite frustrating for the position, but also for the voters it must be quite confusing to know what to do here. The uncertainty is that I still want to say that it is only the red-green government that can guarantee public ownership of the hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4187	The representative Siri A. Meling has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4191	Three points at this minute, to the state councillor Borten Moe's posts. Point 1: My criticism was not linked to the fact that the Council of State may have personal positions. My criticism was linked to the fact that this took place in an arena where a presentation of the knowledge acquisition had been invited, where the Council of State acted as the Council of State, and where, during the summary — as the Council of State — in the afternoon, the Council of State came up with its personal assessments of the conclusions on the acquisition of knowledge. This is unforgiving. Point 2: Everyone agreed on the development of the central network – that’s right. But the Right and the other opposition parties pointed out the lack that the cost distribution was not discussed at all. And when we're going into and almost double the tariff in the central network for industry, I think it's too easy not to think that you also have to discuss cost elements and distribution. In the case of intermediate links: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4202	Earlier in the debate, the industrial power system was up, and a government blast, which will introduce CO2 compensation. Let me first say that we from the Progress Party are very pleased that the CO2 compensation system is now being introduced. We challenged the government already in 2007. Then the answer from the then Environment Minister was a clear no, it did not fit in the government's climate policy that one should actually not pay the CO2 costs. I am pleased that we have received a new Minister for the Environment who has thrown old SV positions overboard and that we are now ensuring that the industry is protected. It was also SV who said in this room a few years ago that a youth had to be managed away from petroleum-related education, and one was not allowed to allocate free CO2 allowances to industry, because it would maintain CO2 emissions in Norway. Now we have a more pragmatic SV, and that's very good – it's always good when the positions of the Progress Party are taken care of by SV. On the other hand, in the case of the industrial power system, the representative named Opheim gave the impression that the government had delivered it. The guarantee scheme was good for Norwegian industry. The problem is that there is not yet a single industrial enterprise that has implemented this scheme. So here we have a system that's supposed to be very good, but no companies think it's interesting to use it. It just shows that the scheme is not good. All power contracts concluded after the implementation of the guarantee scheme are entered into in the free power market. It shows that the industry has become tired of waiting for the government to deliver what they promised. Then one also uses the market, not the government system. It shows that the entire 2005 election gizmo, where the red-green promised good industrial power contracts, has not been fully met. Then the Progress Party has got a little shut up because we dare to cut the rainforest bet. We do not cancel the bet – we are still behind the bet – but we believe that when the money that has already been allocated is not used up, it is pointless that you should grant new money. There are some people who have given the impression that this is almost on a kind of weekly pay basis, so if you don't fill in the money now, it'll be empty. No, this is results based. We believe that there is reason to believe that one is not going to spend the money that is in there. Then it is quite natural that we do not grant new money, but, on the contrary, ensure that what is inside is paid first. Then we'd better take this in the revised budget. But it's starting to get pretty boring to listen to red-green representatives who give the impression that the Progress Party does not support the rainforest bet, when we have voted for it and been for it all the time. The same thing is true of Mongstad. I have been the case rapporteur all four times as the Mongstad case has been in Stortinget. The Progress Party has supported technology development in Mongstad on every occasion, but on every occasion we have said that full-scale clean-up should only begin to grant money and adopt when we know that technology is working. Then we've seen red-green politicians who haven't lifted a finger when competing companies and competing technologies come and knock on the door and say, "We can build, and we don't need money, we just want to know that someone buys the CO2 from us." So these concessions are rejected by this government – not a yes, which they should have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4231	I'll just make a brief comment. I think it is remarkable that the Council of State entirely chooses to ignore the situation in Folla River and the serious claims made locally from his party trap, SV's Vice-President in Folldal. So we're talking about a dead river. It has been dead since the early 1990s because of runoff from mines. It's the Ministry of Economic Affairs that owns it. We're talking about a lot of costs. There's talk that it could cost up to 100 million. kr, and there have been very strong allegations of a non-exhaustive procedure by the Directorate and claims of discrimination – that private owners would not be treated in the same way. So all of this I think is quite serious, and I haven't seen any involvement from the Council of State. I thought it was so remarkable when he did not comment on it in his post that I would like a short article about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4236	I am familiar with the matter and have both spoken about it and looked at it. But when I didn't really go into her now, it was because this is a budget debate. I would like to come back more thoroughly with e.g. a written reply, a direct phone call, or any other way to listen to assessments and discuss follow-up. It's a complicated matter, but I'd like to do it at a given time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4241	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 5 and 6. There will be a call to voting. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4246	As Stortinget has already voted on case No. 1, Stortinget shall vote in case No. 2-6. No. No. of vote. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4252	During the debate, 29 proposals have been presented. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-4, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 5-28, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 29, by Michael Tetzschner on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 29 from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider turning the support above Item 71 from migrant organisations based on country of origin to non-governmental organisations working in integration work in local environments. The Ministry must carry out checks on the resources allocated.’ The left has announced that they will vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4285	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 8–10, 12–14, 16, 18, 19 and 21–28, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote the necessary legislative amendments as soon as possible in order to be able to make rapid use of tracing and locating aids for patients with acquired mental failure, who themselves do not oppose this.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to repeal the Act on Supplementary Social Security for Short Butide Persons in Norway.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to start work on the winding-up of the county as a self-governed level.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the 2013 revised national budget, to provide full compensation to the municipalities that were most badly affected by flood damage in 2012.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the liquidation of the county offices and for the establishment of its own administrative court.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of all building and property stock for sale and to make proposals in relation to the revised national budget for 2013 for the sale of commercial State properties.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to separate State Consultant from the Directorate for Administration and ICT as a separate company and to sell it’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks for a revision of the Financial Assistance Regulation for persons in receipt of State aid so that benefits cannot be provided until the applicant has contributed to the identification of the authorities.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer a case to the Stortingen for the closure of the Foreign Office, where responsibility for the review procedure is transferred to the Ministry of Justice and Defence until an Administrative Court is established.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to start the closure of the Directorate for Integration and Diversity during 2013 and return the directorate’s tasks to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, pending a ministerial reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to coordinate all the tasks of immigration and integration policy in a department.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an external evaluation of all the individual actions from the more than 20 different action plans, which have been aimed over the past 20 years at increasing the proportion of immigrants entering the labour market, to see if these actions have had the desired effect.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2013 revised national budget, to submit proposals for the launch of mandatory health control in the context of the 4-year control, in order to detect the sexual mutilation of girls from land and land where there is a risk of such an infringement being carried out.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to wind up the Contact Committee between immigrants and the authorities.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to dissolve the fund of the state-funded Same People’s Fund and to return the money to donors unabated.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to terminate the Competence Centre for the Rights of the Aborigines’. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to dissolve the culture fund of the state-funded Romani people/stakeholders and to restore the money to the donors without debriefing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4384	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 5–7, 11, 15, 17 and 20, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the implementation of welfare technology solutions in care.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prepare and propose a comprehensive strategy for the wider use of welfare technology as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up an ethics and legal committee to address ethical and legal issues related to the wider use of welfare technology and to present the outcome to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals involving equal treatment of the municipalities in the action zone.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for speeding up digitisation in the public sector so that public actors, private actors and citizens can communicate digitally on secure and user-friendly ICT platforms.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to follow up the financial resources situation of the Data Protection Authority and to return to the Storting in the context of the review of the 2013 national budget with additional appropriations if the Data Protection Authority does not have sufficient financial resources to deal with the complexity of its proceedings.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the start of the closure of the Competence Centre for Regional Development in 2013.’» The left has notified that they will vote for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4434	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 3 and 4, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess whether, and how, return agreements may be included in aid agreements with the country concerned.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to close the House Lease Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4455	There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for more return agreements to be put in place to enable asylum seekers with basic asylum applications to be returned.’ The left has announced that they will vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e4473	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals involving equal treatment of the municipalities in the action zone.’ The left has announced that they will vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7573	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7587	During the debate, Mr Starheim presented five proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. There will be a vote on the proposals from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In kommunelova § 77 nr. 2 is replaced by the following: excluding from the elections: rapporteur, deputy rapporteur, alternate rapporteur, member and alternate member of the Presidency and County Committee; member and alternate member of the municipal or county council with decision-making authority; member of the local council or county council; member and alternate member of the local board of directors and county council members according to Section 10a; employees of the municipality or county council; and managers and directors of municipal companies.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the necessary proposals which limit the principle of open meetings to intercommunal companies and municipal businesses’ handling of business.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the requirement to report on administrative audit is made annually to local government or to carry out administrative audits and on the results thereof.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit the necessary proposals to adjust the auditor’s obligations in local authorities to be more consistent with the principles of the National Audit Office.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to introduce deferred public opinion for a public hearing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7839	There will be a vote on Section 17 nr. 2rd sentence and 17th paragraph So this is the first sentence. Right has notice that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7852	It becomes so bitter in § 77 nr. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Progress Party and the Right have warned that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7865	The rest of the paragraphs under I and II, III, IV and V will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7874	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7886	Twelve proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No. 4-7, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 8-12, by Gjermund Hageseter, on behalf of the Progress Party There will be a vote on the proposal No. 8 to 10 and 12, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government requests the removal of universal design requirements for dwellings below 55 m2.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop plans to introduce passive housing requirements from 2015.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the energy efficiency requirements related to TEK7 and TEK10 so that the minimum energy efficiency requirements are equivalent to TEK97.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider promoting proposals to repeal § 12-4 of the Law on Planning and Building [[5]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7929	There will be a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the legislation that currently governs land regulation and housing construction with a view to making the legislation less comprehensive, simpler and less bureaucratic.’ The left has indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7948	There will be a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the plans for the introduction of independent control be stopped by the Government from 1 January 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7964	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 4-6, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on simplifying and reducing tools in the construction industry with a view to laying the foundations for a well-functioning market without unnecessary state supervision and intervention.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take immediate action to reduce the use of countersigns.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes to enable individuals to submit proposals for regional regulation.’ The left has notified that they will vote for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e7992	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1-3 from the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the priority of indoor climate as a field of activity for Building21.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to eliminate the link between the registration of lung cancer deaths by the Cancer Registry and exposure to radon and the importance of new build density for the exposure of radonous gases.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all those at risk for radon problems are offered radon measurement.’ The left has notified that they will vote for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e8033	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1–5, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the IFE Group at the Halden reactor to become an FME centre.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e8058	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1–5, from the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of Petoro by ensuring more flexible financing than today by directly financing Petoro over the cash flow from the socket rather than through State budget appropriations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to restore open air life as an area of performance within the Ministry of the Environment’s budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case concerning the financial responsibility of the State for archaeological excavations where this is required on a private basis.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan to ensure the stepping up of efforts to clean up pollution in fjords, watercourses and ports.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the impact of making maps and spatial data from the State Maps available to the public for free and free, and to report back to the Stortinget on the outcome of the 2014 State Budget investigation.’; The left has notified that they will vote for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e11717	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-12-11.ana.ud38e12339	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
