ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e63	The representative Ivar Kristiansen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e69	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e72	I have the pleasure, on behalf of the representative, Trine Skei Grande and myself, to propose a representative on the redistribution of child rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e77	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e89	The President is asking for proposals. A new member of the Electoral Committee shall be elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e92	I suggest Karin Yrvin.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e97	Karin Yrvin has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee. – Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e119	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e135	Statistics are exciting, and in most cases statistics can be useful — at least if used correctly. Statistics may also be an important prerequisite for policy-makers and others to make decisions, and hopefully correct decisions. The reason for this interpellation is to be able to make decisions. Minorities have their own language, as the Storting knows. We have more minorities in Norway. Samer, women, forest fins, Jews, romance and Norwegian romance are some of the minorities we have. These have a language in which they are entitled to receive training and which they can use in their daily activities. It is important to identify how many have different mother tongues in Norway. Among other things, it will be of great help to municipalities that plan their school days for students. In particular this applies to samical. The size is, as you know, little happy to plan for the long term. We have one-year budgets, or barely enough – we have half-year budgets, as well as that we have the revision – but with regard to the municipalities, we demand that they actually have four years of planning. In order to have four years of planning, it is also good to have a basis for planning. It is also important to have statistics to enable them to make this planning and take the decisions they will take for the four-year period. Today, there are no statistics on how many speak different mother tongues in Norway. Estimates are only available. In an article on minority and minority language users in Norway, published in the new language in 2003, Lars Kulbrandstad says something about why it is difficult to produce such statistics. I quote: ‘Neither in population censuses nor other similar public registration of persons in Norway is asked which language or languages are used in their daily lives. Nor have we developed a wide range of research that can provide us with direct information on such issues. Therefore, in most cases, tasks on the number of minority language users need to be based on judgement and on estimates based on sources primarily concerned with something else.’ In the same article, Kulbrandstad says that it is easier to estimate the number of those who speak minority languages in immigrant groups, but that there are also several uncertainties here. We have statistics, says Kulbrandstad, about who was born abroad, or who has parents where both are. We know where the parents come from, and we know the language conditions in that country. But then we have some challenges that some people have changed languages, so that they are no longer minority language users. The vast majority of first- and second-generation immigrants dominate minority languages. Carbon cities also say that it is difficult to estimate the number of users of Sami and those who speak the languages of other national minority groups. It is problematic to assess the size of the population groups, because we lack clear points of view to determine who can be counted as members of these groups. Everyone has it's called core members, i.e. persons with key characteristics relevant to membership of the group, but there are also many that are more marginal members. In St.meld. No 35 for 2007–08 Objectives and meaning — A holistic Norwegian language policy is the language situation of national minorities. The estimated number of Sami languages in Norway varies between 10 000 and 20 000. Reference is also made to a study carried out by the Sami Nutrition and Investigation Centre in 2000 on behalf of the Sami Language Council, where the number of Sami speakers is estimated at 25 000. About half of these talk, read and write samish, while for the others it's primarily a language of speech. Northern Sami is, as we know, the most common of the Sami languages. Those who speak lulesamically in Norway are estimated to be about 500, while southern Sami is spoken by a few hundred people together in Norway and Sweden. The 2009 Sámi Action Plan indicates that northern Sami is classified as a threatened language on the UNESCO Red List. South and Lulesamian are classified as seriously threatened languages, and eastern Sami, scholesamic, pitesamic and umesamic are characterised as being eradicated in Norway. This is worrying when we know that we also have other minorities who have their language — among others. female. It is estimated that there are between 10,000 and 15 000 women in Norway, and that the number of those using the language varies between 2000 and 8 000. We also have forest fins, and it is estimated that their language was lost approx. in the 1900s. Jews are also a minority with about 1,100 members. We have Romans, estimated at 300 to 400 people, and about 300 to 400 people. 90 pst. of these speaking romani, or romani čib, as it is also called. Norwegian romance is a minority language spoken in Norway, and there are about a few thousand who speak it. As I said, this is worrying. We see that especially Samer is entitled to learn languages when we know that in primary school Sami is part of the training plan. 928 primary school students received training in the first language of northern Sami and 1 145 received training in the second language of northern Sami in 2010/2011. 29 students were trained in Lulesamian as a first language, and 68 were trained in Lulesamian as a second language. It's not about many people, and the concern about the Sami language is that it will eventually die out, and that there won't be a lot of people who speak it at all. Then it is important, as I opened it, that the municipalities have the opportunity to plan for this language training. What is also worrying is that Norway has signed both ratifications and some pacts. The European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages was adopted in 1992. Norway ratified it in 1993, and it became effective from 1 March 1998. This is when Norway reports. We have also received comments that we do not have statistics on minority languages in Norway. I would quote from the fourth report that we received from the language pact: ‘Nordic authorities give only rough estimates of the number of persons speaking regional or minority languages in Norway. This is due to the lack of official statistics or other reliable data on the number of speakers. The estimates for female-speaking persons are not clear, as the authorities refer to estimates ranging from 10000 to 15000 female-speaking persons living in Norway.’ At the same time, Norway is an active member of the United Nations. CERD, the UN Committee on Racial Discrimination, has also been out criticising Norway for its lack of statistics. I want to refer here to what the committee says in its 17th and 18th periodic report from the CERD: ‘The Committee reiterates its concern about the lack of statistical data in the party’s report on the ethnic composition of its population. The Committee recommends that, in accordance with point 8 of the Reporting Guidelines, the Party provide information on the use of Parental Targets as an indication of ethnic inequality, as well as information derived from targeted societal studies carried out on a voluntary basis and with full respect for those concerned, with data protection and anonymity requirements, and recalls the Committee’s general recommendation No. 8 on self-identification of persons with a particular racial or ethnicity.’;» Which I opened with in my post: it's important to have this statistics. We're being criticized by international teams because we don't have it. And when Norway ratifys a pact such as the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages and we are an active member of the UN, should we not then comply with what we have ratified and accept the criticism we are receiving, and perhaps also comply with it and try to meet the requirements we ourselves have agreed to by ratifying these different pacts?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e176	Let me start by thanking you for the interpellation. It is true, as the representative Ørsal Johansen here points out, that there is no overall overview of how many individuals in Norway have other language or first language. I want to answer the question by discussing first what purpose such an overview should have, second, what we know about which languages are spoken in Norway, and thirdly, what we understand about native language or first language, and how it is possible to acquire knowledge. I would also like to explain the government's policy to ensure linguistic diversity. What is the purpose of an overview of the languages spoken in Norway? An overview of the languages spoken in Norway would document the linguistic diversity and the linguistic resources available, make important knowledge resources visible in the Norwegian community and document the use of regional and minority languages in Norway. Sami, female, romance and romance are defined in Norway as regional and minority languages and are thus covered by the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. What do we know about the linguistic resources of the population, and what languages are spoken in Norway today? Most of Norway’s native language is Norwegian, but there are significant elements of languages used by minority groups in the population, among national minorities and among immigrant populations. As there have been more immigrants in Norway, the representative of Ørsal Johansen is increasingly showing a different background and thus a different mother tongue or first language from Norwegian. Immigrants in Norway come from all corners of the world and from at least 200 different countries. We have an overview of the immigrant population, but there is no overall overview of how many people speak which languages. Studies among the immigrant population asking for linguistic skills have so far focused on the Norwegian skills of immigrants. Very many of the world’s languages are represented in Norway. At least 200 languages are represented in the immigrant population. Many countries have several official and unofficial languages and dialects, so that there may be more languages. There is no overall overview of which languages are controlled and spoken among national minorities. Due to a lack of information on the use of Sami languages, the Sametinget and the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church have launched a survey, Nordlandsforskning 2011–2012. The collected material did not provide a basis for quantifying the number of users of Sami languages, but it showed that there is an increase in the skills of young people in southern and lulesamic, which is joyous. There are some sources of information on languages from register statistics and reporting to the Statistical Central Bureau. These statistics are limited to the following: According to primary school statistics, 855 out of over 600,000 primary school students in 2011 had Sami as their mother tongue. In 2011, 20,721 primary school students had specific language and/or bilingual training. 6,471 of these students had native language training. In the autumn of 2011, language and/or bilingual vocational training was provided in 92 languages. If we also include organised training, the number of languages taught will be 125. Kindergarten statistics show that about 90 pst. children between the ages of 1 and 5 years have a children's gardening space. The proportion of minority-speaking children has increased in recent years. In 2011, 30,500 minority language children were registered in kindergarten, nearly 11 pst. by all children in kindergarten. So what do we understand by mother tongue or first language, and how is it possible to acquire such knowledge? Both the mother tongue and the first language are defined and used in different ways. It illustrates the dynamic and complex nature of language mapping in Norway. Parental goals are often defined in the language of parents. In some contexts, it is defined as the language spoken in the child’s home, either by both parents or by one of the parents in communication with the child. Thus, a child may have two mother tongues. The first language may refer to the language first learned, but also to the most widely used and closely related languages. It may designate the main oral, possibly written, language of a person. The first language can also be used as a language a teacher at a later stage in life, but which can eventually become the language with which he identifies himself. It takes time to learn a new language, and the use of the language also changes as time passes. A language mapping will therefore only provide a snapshot. The representative of Ørsal Johansen’s justification for making statistics on linguistic diversity available is, to quote him sjæl, ‘so that one can thus close some knowledge gaps’ — that is how it was produced in this interpellation. I am very concerned with the work of the Statistical Central Bureau on the development and maintenance of statistics and analyses on migration, integration and living conditions. This forms the basis for the work on analysis and policy-making in my department. But the assignments we give to the Statistical Central Bureau are linked to the need for knowledge in relation to one or more challenges to be solved, not knowledge for the sake of knowledge. An increase in the linguistic diversity of the population in Norway and the multilingualism of more and more inhabitants is a resource in a globalised world. Multilingualism represents communication skills, contributes to cultural understanding and strengthens the possibilities for international interaction. Promoting multilingualism can be a competitive advantage for Norway. A survey of language skills and practices per household, or at individual level, would be very comprehensive and resource-intensive. I don't think we should give priority to using a lot of resources to develop statistics on languages spoken in Norway when we don't need these statistics. Examples of full-counting per household or at individual level are the population and housing census of the Central Bureau in 2000. The SSB has disregarded such comprehensive full censuses and is now producing statistics based on the reporting and updating of registers or sample surveys. Therefore, it would be unrealistic to carry out a comprehensive survey of language skills and practices, but it would be realistic to carry out smaller studies focusing on some issues relevant to policy development, such as the survey carried out on the use of Sami languages. Knowledge of the linguistic diversity of the population will be obtainable through different sample surveys, such as community and community surveys and living conditions surveys. Let me say a few words at the end about what the government's policy to ensure linguistic diversity is. The purpose of the government is to pursue a language policy that strengthens cultural roots and counteracts cultural bias, where language protection is an element of the protection of minority rights and culture. Through the processing of St. Announcement. No 35 for 2007-2008 Objectives and meaning – A holistic Norwegian language policy in 2009 was behind a more active and comprehensive language policy. Language diversity is a central element and one of the five main objectives of the government’s language policy. Language diversity offers different perspectives in the world and helps to counteract cultural and political uniformity, cf. St. Report. No 35 and the Sámi Action Plan of 2009. Internationally, there is a strong political consensus that cultural and linguistic diversity needs to be protected. For example, the Sami languages, women's, romance and romance are recognised as regional and minority languages. They have been given special protection by the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, which has been ratified by Norway. Many immigrants have linguistic and other skills and are a resource for Norway. I will contribute to increased employment among immigrants and better use of the skills of immigrants in working life. These are important perspectives in the forthcoming major communication on integration policy, which will also be addressed precisely in languages, in particular the need to ensure good Norwegian knowledge and good Norwegian training, also for women and for those who do not have good knowledge from the countries from which they come – with a particular focus on children’s opportunities, on the cohesion of living conditions and with a view to believing that multilingualism is a resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e244	I thank the Council of State for the article and for the good information. But I'm also a little worried, because as I interpret the Council of State, the Council of State will not know how languages and minority languages stand in Norway. I am also concerned that the Council of State does not at all take up the criticism from the international community and will not do anything to meet the criticism from the international community. It's worrying. The Council of State also says that such a recording of statistics will only give a snapshot. I'm a little uncertain about what the Council of State puts in a snapshot, but when a leader collects statistics and regularly collects information, it doesn't give a snapshot, it gives an idea of what it's like today and what it's going to look like in the future – not least how to plan for the future. The Council of State was also concerned with the difficulty and inadvisability of obtaining such statistics. Let me then tell you that several countries are conducting statistics like this, among other things. Finland, which is very careful and dedicated to complying with the requirements of the international community. However, the main reason why they do so is that local authorities should use these statistics for social planning, and these statistics are actively used in this way. They use, among other things: the Finnish Statistical Centre and it then passes through the People's Register. According to Finland, this is not particularly resource-intensive, and it is not particularly unrealistic. I see no reason why we in Norway should not be able to do the same in order to simplify the work in the municipalities. Today, we have a number of municipalities within the Sami administrative area, and we know after a while that there are councillors and politicians in the Sami administrative area in these municipalities who don't know how many – or whether there are any – speak minority languages in the municipalities. In fact, I believe that the municipalities need to know when they are planning, among other things. the day of school in the future. It is also interesting to note that one of the major critics that we do not have such statistics in Norway is the Anti-racist Centre, which questions the Norwegian approach and indicates that other countries have such statistics. So I hope that the Council of State will take this up to a closer assessment, and I hope that the municipalities will have the opportunity to obtain such statistics in order to improve their planning, which will also be resource-saving.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e259	I think the representative Ørsal Johansen drew what I said a little far in his conclusions. Nor is it the case that our government does not listen to what comes from the international community. On the contrary, it is – and I would say often in contrast to what the representative’s own party emphasizes – so that we place great emphasis on what comes from an international team. But then it is also important that we explain why we have the policy we have. We explain this, among other things: based on the practical reasons I have stated, while this is not about us not wanting to know which language is spoken, but that it is a question of how a person wants to use the statistics and whether it is possible to obtain good enough statistics that it can actually be used for something reasonable. What we've been very concerned about, at least, is that we both need to ensure the care of the mother tongue and the first language, that we need to make sure that students learn Norwegian well, that we take as a starting point what we know about, among other things. the importance of mastering the mother tongue, e.g. to have interpreting services available — it is also about planning — to have multilingual assistants in kindergartens that provide better services for children and make children feel safer and also learn Norwegian faster and make friends etc. So it is not least important that we have a good policy for minorities and for indigenous peoples in Norway, and there we have, as I mentioned, conducted surveys such as, among other things. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs and also the Sameting have been behind it. It has given us some insight, and among other things. I think it's a pleasure to see a positive development among some of these language groups. But it is not easy to obtain these statistics, and at least you have to believe that it is so important that it defends a resource use at the other end. With the contribution made here by the representative Ørsal Johansen, I expect that the Progress Party in its alternative budget will promote the means to carry out such language mapping, and that the reasons for doing so will also be the correct use and prioritisation of resources. It is not that we are not interested, but I explained in detail what assessments we have taken when we have reached the conclusion we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e270	The interpellation that has traveled today is about some of the most important resources for our society. I think the Council's response was good, but I also think that the interpellation theme provides a basis for raising some perspectives, because the theme languages and minorities are important. I would therefore like to add something. We're not just going to live off the oil for the future, it's people who are the most important resource we have. Those with a minority background and those from other countries form an important part of Norway’s value creation. Statistics from the Central Bureau indicate that about 60 pst. of the new employees from 2004 to 2011 were immigrants, and from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the fourth quarter of 2011 immigrants stood for 70 pst. employment growth. The largest growth takes place in the private sector. This shows that there are clear links between growth and immigration. Immigration provides a basis for growth, in the sense that it meets the needs of labour created by growth. In Hedmark we want to be many more, 220,000 inhabitants in 2020 are the ambition. Without immigration, this objective becomes difficult to achieve. Several people create more activity, it provides a basis for growth, and figures from the Statistical Centre show that this is not least true for immigration. It is important, of course, that language should be given priority. Both to create good lives for those involved and to enable them to participate in the construction of society, good language training is essential. Now, like the Council of State, I'm a little bit uncertain about what such statistics are being asked for. But what any statistics would have done was, as the Council of State said, to show what enormous language resources exist around our country. We know well that having access to such language resources among us will be an advantage in a globalised world. We know that learning more languages from one is a small force for general language skills, while good language learning helps support the process of learning new languages. As I said, we have many linguistic resources in Norway, but some resources are scarcer than others. It is extremely important that debates on mother tongues, minority languages and Norwegian are not just about strengthening Norwegian education, but also about taking care of, preserving and strengthening other linguistic resources. In Hedmark we have a southern Sami settlement in Engerdal – in Elgang reinbeite district. We are therefore well aware of the importance of an active policy to preserve language and culture. Here it is essential that the state, county, municipality and community work well together to ensure the preservation of precisely this resource. We know today what needs are around, for example. the southern Sami environment in Engerdal. We know what is needed to ensure the further preservation of the language in the Sámi region. It is important that we continue to work systematically to take care of the important cultural and language environment that exists there. It is my wish that, in the future, we can see languages, immigration and minorities as resources in the work on population growth and growth, and that, to the best of our ability, we try to take care of and exploit these resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e287	I want to thank Morten Ørsal Johansen for the interpellation, although I may not think it is the most central theme to discuss in Stortinget. We have three official languages in Norway: Sami, female and Norwegian. We have four minority languages related to the national minorities, and we have all the immigrant groups bringing their languages into the country. It is important to stress that Sami and female, but in particular Sami, are also the administrative languages of the Sami language areas. We in the committee have been around different municipalities that have Sami as official language. We have met kindergarten children who sing in Sami – and in female – and the important thing is that we really care that those who want to take advantage of the possibility of training in this mother tongue will have that opportunity. There's been a focus in the committee in recent years, and I think it's a proper focus. There are rather scarce resources in these areas, and then I don't see the point of starting a large-scale survey of the entire Norwegian population and what kind of language they really think is their native language. The most important thing is that those who want training in Sami — whether it is northern Sami, southern Sami or lulesamic — receive that training and that the training is good and adapted to the time we live in. That's why I don't see this as a big problem. I'm a little uncertain about when Ørsal Johansen spent so much time fulfilling Norway's international obligations, international conventions. I have in mind other debates in which we have discussed, among other things. The ILO Convention, where I have not felt that the Progress Party has been equally committed to fulfilling our international obligations. So I'm sorry, I don't really see the need for this, and I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party wants to spend x million dollars on a project that I don't see the full benefit of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e296	I almost don't know where to start. First to Lasse Juliussen: we are not criticized just once, but several times by international organizations, and I know that we have a Southern settlement in Engerdal. Then it's interesting to hear if the representative Julius knows how many people in Engerdal speak Southern Sami, and who have it as their mother tongue. I think the municipality of Engerdal had benefited from knowing that when they were planning language training for students at school. That's what's the whole point here, and that's why we want such a statistic. That Trond Helleland has been around the country, and especially in North Norway, and met kids singing in Sami – yes, that's great. He also wants those who want training to get it. Yes, so does the Advance Party, but it requires planning. It requires municipalities to say little in advance about who speaks the language and who needs to be trained so that they can plan for the future. It actually saves on resources. That's what they do in Finland. They use this to plan the future training for school students. That Norway should not do that, I think it's amazing. The representative of Greece was in the ILO Convention, that we are not so concerned about following it. Well, we're dedicated to following the obligations that lie there, but we believe we're going out of the ILO. It is a completely different matter, because we have concluded the ILO Convention on a completely wrong basis – without taking that discussion now. But the point is that we can have statistics available, and that it's easy to have them available. Other countries have, there is not much use of resources with it, and they see a great benefit in doing so because of social planning. I think that Norway should not be interested in planning for the future. And I thought that the representative of Greece, who comes from a party that is reasonably concerned with resource use and economics, was more interested in the fact that the municipalities were given the opportunity to plan in a good way, so that they could save resources on it. But I thank you for the small part of the debate that has been. The Progress Party still believes that this is interesting. Of course, we will come back with more suggestions. Of course, if the Council of State so wishes, she will have the background material we have, not least from Finland, to see how they do it there. It may help the Council of State to review this, if appropriate, and to see if there are possibilities to keep such statistics in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e311	I want to underline some things that I think are important. One is that multilingualism is a resource. It is necessary to facilitate the pride of learning more languages, to facilitate the ability to master more languages – when you have a different native language, a different first language – and, not least, to facilitate children and young people who grow up with a Sami background, to feel pride in being a commoner and having a cultural background with deep traditions. This should be linked to pride, but still today we see the intensity of discrimination. Of course, it's made an impression on all of us, the story of the cohabitants who were attacked. I just want to mention it since we have the Sami theme here. It was a very serious matter and shows the need for us to continue to work systematically at all levels of discrimination – combating it and promoting equality and equality in our society. We should not take it for granted that kind of attitudes are passé. Unfortunately, this is still confirmed in settings in Norway. I also need to mention meetings with immigrant youth, who are Norwegian, first-generation nords, but with parents from other countries, who tell how they have always thought of it as a disadvantage to be bilingual – to have a leg in two different cultures – rather than to think of it as a resource. It's also a little bit important that we reflect around, if we want to create a society that's inclusive of everyone. I think it is important then to be clear on the resource as it is, that more and more people in our country master more languages. It provides opportunities for business. It provides a completely different opportunity for international contact, and it also provides opportunities to be interpretative resources for other newcomers, etc. It's a great potential that lies within it. Perhaps the most important thing is to discuss how we can facilitate the spread of pride over discriminatory attitudes, suspicions, that initially it seems to be a disadvantage and simply focuses on the disadvantages associated with being multicultural. I could say a lot about it in a discussion with the Progress Party, but I'm leaving it now. I still think it is worth noting the words that come from the representative of Greece related to the international commitment and the importance of following up, among other things. such a central convention as the ILO Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e322	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e338	In February 2012, the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs received the assessments and recommendations of the Competition Authority relating to the prohibition of a bonus programme in domestic aviation. This was first adopted by the Bondevik II Government and the State Council Victor Norman in 2002. It was then repeated by the Stoltenberg II government in 2007, but now it is again a consultation process around the same issues. We know that in July this year ESA sent letters to the government and suggested as a preliminary conclusion that the ban could be contrary to the EEA Agreement. The case has been in consultation until 16 May. Now it's almost six months, and I have reason to believe that the decision-making process is approaching. The main tasks of the Competition Surveillance Authority are to enforce the Competition Act. It prohibits cooperation which restricts competition and abuse of a dominant position. I want to start the interpellation by boasting a bit of both SAS and Norwegian, which in the last ten years has led to a significant, well-functioning aviation market in Norway, characterised by good regular services, reasonably good competition, significantly lower prices and high stability. There are fewer angry air passengers now, and to the extent that passengers are angry, it's because of the air traffic controllers and not the companies. It's a huge improvement, because the North is a flying people. Aeroplanes are very important for business traffic in Norway, it is important for travel life, and it is important for a long-term country to have routes that provide regular, stable connections to the country. The proposal of the Competition Authority involves opening up what they consider to be a robust air market between Stavanger-Oslo, Bergen-Oslo, Trondheim-Oslo tur-return. What has been one of my main criticisms about the proposal, and I hope that the Council of State has noticed, when she is about to make the regulation, is that the Competition Authority does not mention two side-effects that have a competitive impact, and that are also within the field of the Competition Authority. One concerns competition between airports in Norway, because there are actually award points for airports. Those airports which are currently the best are further enhanced by State intervention at the expense of all other airports in Norway, whether it be a regular airport or the others. The consultation process has revealed that the nearest aerodromes — e.g.: Rygge, Torp, who is not only privately owned, but also made to be a competitor of the Gardermo – has fallen away. For example, the nearest airports to Flesland are: Stord and Haugesund. The nearest airports to Stavanger Airport are Haugesund and Kjevik in Kristiansand, while Flesland may not have so many close neighbours north of it, compared to the main road network. This means that many in the consultation process have wanted to be added to the exemption or bonus list. But the more exceptions or additions you add, the worse it will be for those who are not on the list, especially the North West, the entire North Norway and perhaps the South. The second critical moment that I believe the Competition Authority has ignored, but which has also been in part of the debates, is that the course and conference market in District Norway will lose even more, because conferences and events will be even more placed near the major airports, close to the large hotels being built up. At that time, prices will be higher, the routes will be worse for the other regions – in North Norway, in the North West and in the West – than they are at the major airports. Employees will earn award credits to attend conferences, and therefore employees will be more positive that those who organise conferences for businesses will arrange them where they will receive award credits that they can travel to. It's not necessarily the same thing. Competition surveillance reveals that the number of competition routes in Norway since the introduction of the bonus ban in 2002 has increased from four routes in 2002 to 23 routes in 2010. In addition, we must remember that there has been a huge increase in charter traffic and routes out of Norway. The supervisory report shows that the average prices of air travel have fallen significantly. The Transport Economic Institute has presented an analysis showing that competition on a route led to about 17 pst. lower average prices from 2003 to 2011. It is interesting to see which routes and which type of passengers will benefit from it. Is it you and me when we travel on a private trip, or is it when others pay the flights? Business travellers have paid 21 pst. lower ticket price, while household customers have had a reduction of 6 pst. Business travelers between North and South Norway today pay 40 pst. less than in 2003. It is important for business throughout Norway. The most interesting statistics come from the Central Statistical Office, which shows a sharp price reduction immediately after the decision of the Right in 2002, when prices fell. Like me, the Ministry of Finance has said the following: ‘The Ministry of Finance will stress that the bonus programme provides for weaker competition between established companies, increased prices, reduced route offers, increased barriers to the creation of new airlines and may affect competition in neighbouring markets.’ The impact on competition between airports has not been discussed in the Competition Authority’s report. This has been criticised by both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, as well as by a whole bunch of hearing bodies. I therefore assume that the government will take the initiative to do this before changing the regulation, if you want to change the regulation. In my view, a bonus program will reduce the customer's motivation to search the market for alternatives. Comparing the alternatives is more difficult; it is not easy to take the earned award credits from one airline to another; the loyalty programmes increase the cost of switching airlines and reduce the customer's price sensitivity, with the effect that customers are more likely to accept higher prices, more delays, reduced service and more cancellations from ‘sit’ airlines without necessarily using it by choosing a new airline in the next round. In addition, we know that the bonus programs cost money. What costs money, of course, needs to be reflected in the prices. The incentive problem involves a not insignificant waste of resources. It has been important for the Right and others who want to reduce government travel budgets in order to save money, to help ensure that the extra costs of business by being established in Norway do not increase further. Think of what it would mean for the state that is a major consumer of air travel. If, for example, a bonus ban: Includes 5 pst. increase in prices, just to take a cautious increase, perhaps the figures in the Ministry of Finance can calculate that there is a need for an increase in the operational budgets in the departments. The Consumer Council believes that the usual consumer who pays for his flight and who travels on average between one and five times a year will receive minimal benefits. The usual consumer will not take advantage, but will in practice pay for the schemes in the form of increased prices and fewer routes, because the companies of course prioritise business traffic, which is the most profitable and stable – and not least: they travel on behalf of others, and then it is good to have high-price tickets, flexible tickets that give the highest award points. The Competition Authority itself states that the aviation bonus programme has anti-competitive effects. Furthermore, competition supervision believes that bonus programmes can create barriers to the creation of new players, just as we did after the ban came, so the introduction of Norwegian and a revolution in prices. It may well be that on some of the routes on which the Competition Authority now wants to open up traffic, there are precisely those on which it is possible to find room for new players, but which will in practice be locked between the major cities. So also for the big cities there can be higher prices than you can assume, because it gets worse to establish on those routes as well. My recommendation to the government is to think of Norwegian consumers, Norwegian travel industry, non-discrimination between airports and competition in the market, and to keep the success of the ban on air travel not only in the decision to be made by the Council of State around a new regulation, but also in the dialogue that is now to be conducted with ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e381	Thank you for the initiative taken by the representative Kambe on a debate on the ban on award credits on domestic air routes. As the representative said, it was introduced for the first time in 2002. The Competition Authority prohibited SAS/Braathens from having such arrangements. This prohibition, together with other measures, contributed to the establishment of Norwegian in the Norwegian domestic market. The duration of the SAS/Braathens bonus system intervention was five years. When the ban expired in 2007, Norwegian had established itself with a solid market share on the domestic market. However, the Ministry found it necessary to continue a ban on domestic bonus earnings. This prohibition was generally applicable to all airlines, not only to SAS. The prohibition was justified by the fact that the awarding of bonuses binds customers to individual companies, so that they less consider alternative operators when ordering travel. This makes it more difficult to establish itself on the Norwegian market and reduces competition between airlines. The regulation does not have an expiry date. However, the supervision of competition has carried out an assessment of whether the prohibition should be continued, repealed or, where appropriate, extended. The ministry received the supervisory review in February this year. The investigation was carried out at the mid-May hearing. The hearing bodies were both in favour of and against lifting the ban on award credits for domestic aviation. Norwegian, consumer authorities and others argued that the ban should be extended in its entirety. SAS, LO, the Association of Lawyers and others believed that the ban should be lifted. Some pointed to issues that the Competition Authority had not particularly affected in its investigation. This was the case, on which the representative Kambe has been involved, the airport problem and relations with some other economic areas such as the course and conference market. I now have the matter to assess. It is useful to get opinions on these questions here in this interpellant debate. Of course, I'm not going to conclude here and now. The Ministry’s decision will be exchange-sensitive. However, we can discuss points and considerations that speak for and against a continued ban. Competition supervision refers to theoretical assessments made in Norway and internationally. These speak for the competitive effect of bonus making. Customers are more tied up to the airline where they have a bonus card. The strength of this effect depends on the design of the bonus system. Specific thresholds where additional benefits are obtained will, for example: bind customers to the company in question more strongly than a flat bonus earner. Silver and gold cards in the EuroBonus system for SAS are an example of bonus schemes with such thresholds. In the case of business trips, the competitive effects may be enhanced if the employee enjoys a high degree of freedom in ordering air tickets, retaining earned award credits on work trips for his own use, and that the employer lacks systems that contribute to the employee’s ordering out of the employer’s interests over his own. Competition supervision places great emphasis on what can happen in the supervision term ‘diluted routes’. It's routes with a small traffic base. The lifting of such routes may create particular competition problems between SAS and Norwegian. The company with the least favourable bonus programme could lose business customers to the other company. On marginally profitable routes, this may result in a restriction of the offer, possibly withdrawing one of the companies from the route. On the other hand, the Norwegian domestic market has changed significantly since 2002 and since 2007. Norwegian has had a strong growth and is now almost as large as SAS domestically. Due to lower flight prices, the value of a bonus trip is significantly lower than before. Many employers have, since the adoption of the ban, put in place ordering systems that reduce the ability of employees to have their private interest in earning award credits decide which company to choose. No other country has a ban on bonus earnings. The supervision has carried out empirical studies to identify the competitive effects of bonus systems. The studies have not provided any clear answers. This may be due to the fact that data and method problems do not allow such effects to be identified. But it can also be because the effects are not so big. There is considerable uncertainty as to the strength of the anti-competitive effects of awarding. What we need to assess is whether the effects are strong enough to defend a continued ban. The Competition Authority concluded that the prohibition of bonus earnings should be maintained, but that bonus earnings can be opened on the three main routes, between Gardermoen and Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger respectively. Questions have been raised about this affecting competition between aerodromes. The representative of Storting Arve Kambe believes that the proposal of the Competition Authority may have implications for competition between airports other than those in the East. I'm aware of that. The Ministry therefore asked in the letter of consultation for views as to whether the recommendations of the Competition Authority affect competition between airports in general and in the east. I wanted to understand the situation in the East because the situation here is different. Here is competition between an Avinor-Eid airport and two private airports. For other aerodromes in the country, a possible influence between two or more Avinor-Eide aerodromes may be applicable. The consultation round showed that these are issues that affect and engage many. I therefore asked the Competition Authority to carry out an additional investigation to clarify these questions. We got it on August 31st. Bonus programs work differently in the leisure segment and business segment. Business travelers travel the most. In the business segment, the employer covers travel expenses while the benefits of a bonus programme often belong to the employee. In the leisure segment, the individual travels less and has to cover his or her travel expenses. Therefore, the effect of the bonus programme applies primarily to the business segment. The Competition Authority finds that the competition between Gardermoen and the other airports in the Oslo region is marginal for travellers in the business segment. Similarly, supervision finds a small competition between airports in the West. Competition surveillance concludes that allowing bonus programmes for the three main routes would not distort competition for airports in the Oslo region or in the West. The routes to and from these smaller airports are largely thin routes. Competition supervision considers that the performance of bonuses at these aerodromes may have the same effect as for other thin routes. It poses a risk of fewer departures and closed routes from these aerodromes. The Competition Authority believes that this effect will be stronger than that which occurs if only the three routes from Gardermoen to Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger are allowed to earn bonuses. The Competition Authority considers that the issue of awarding will not affect the assessment by airlines of the aerodrome at which they intend to operate. I have not concluded whether or not the bonus generation ban should be continued. I agree with the representative of Kambe that the issue of introducing a partial ban is an important issue, also for competition between airports. I therefore carefully assess whether the solution proposed by the Competition Authority is appropriate. If the ban is removed in its entirety, these issues are eliminated. The prohibition on the award of bonus programmes in domestic aviation is laid down in a regulation in which the regulatory competence has been conferred on the ministry. However, I am pleased that the representative Kambe has made it possible to get a recording and discuss the matter with the staging representatives before the government concludes. I look forward to the recordings that come here in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e436	Thank you very much for a good answer. I understand that the Council of State has not entirely decided – it is right before. That is why I think it is good that the Council of State has now postponed the consultation period to respond to ESA until 18 October after what I understand, a week after the interpellation debate in Stortinget. It testifies to good respect for the Storting, I think, to the extent that the interpellation debate has had an impact on the Council's request for a postponement. I have experienced in other interviews that the Councils have sent out press releases or had a press conference the day before the interpellation debate. We now see a Council of States that seems sincere – it seems – is interested in hearing the opinions of the Storting and the various parties. That's very good. With regard to the airport problem, which I believe is a significant weakness in the consultation proposal, I am not reassured when I hear that the Competition Authority has had some sort of pause after the hearing opinions based on the report, when they conclude that their conclusions were the right ones. Things may suggest that there were others who would pass that assessment, because it may not have been a bomb that the Competition Authority agreed with the Competition Authority. At least none of the hearing bodies — none of the hearing bodies — support the model that comes from the Competition Surveillance Authority, nor SAS. That being said, I feel that this is a real decision-making process. I see that the Council of State sees that it is not just Rygge and Torp that have problems, even if the Competition Authority rejects it. I find it interesting to hear what Torp and Rygge say, what the Consumer Council says, what the municipalities, the county councils, the business organisations and the travel organisations say, and not only there, but also in the North West and also in the case of Haugesund airport and Stord Lufthamn, because the exact same arguments apply there. Norwegian tourism is genuinely concerned, and together with destinations, the NHO Travel Life has protested against this from a to a north to south along the coast. There is a saying in the United States that says, ‘If it ain’t broken, don’t fix it.’ This may be a very good example of it — a system that works great. Why, then, should one change such a scheme in all days? It's going to be interesting to hear in the further debate what the other parties are saying about this, because this is an interesting debate that has social significance. The Ministry of Finance has criticised the Competition Authority’s investigation in order not to assess the socio-economic impact. It's also interesting to get along with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e447	I am pleased that the representative, Mr Kambe, has noticed that we have requested a deadline for ESA, precisely because I think it was right that we should bring this debate first. The interpellation of the representative, Mr. Kambe, was taken before the holiday. For practical reasons both here in the house and in others, it was not possible to carry out this debate at a time before the Stortinget broke up. I think it was right that we had the opportunity to get opinions in the main hall before the government concludes on a matter that I have also recorded that there are many who have views both in one direction and the other. As Mr. Kambe says, there are several aspects that must be included in the overall assessment that the government is going to make when we make our decision. The input of the Competition Authority is an important argument there, but also all the consultation input that comes will be important when the government makes its decision. We asked for an additional investigation into the competitive situation between airports from the Competition Authority – especially in the case of Rygge and Torp, but also related to issues such as: at Haugesund Airport. Competitive supervision has its methods that they use when making these types of calculations. The Transport Economics Institute has been used to look at travel habits and population data. Traffic data from Avinor has been used, and the conclusion is reached, but when a final decision is taken on such a matter, there will be far more than just the input of the Competition Authority on which it will be based. I also want to remind you that the situation is somewhat different in aviation now than it was in 2002 and 2007. It's not just in Norway that we have experienced a price drop on air travel, but it's only in Norway that we have a bonus ban. I'm not going to draw those comparisons too clearly. Norwegian has also established itself with a loyalty program. There is something different from the EuroBonus programme that SAS has, but it is also a factor that needs to be emphasised in the further debate and in the decision to be taken where programmes exist. I also believe that many employers now have schemes to ensure that employers manage travel orders to a greater extent than before, and that employers are involved in purchasing air travel where it is the cheapest and most appropriate, and not so much related to the loyalty programmes. The threshold values of the loyalty programmes may also be reached without the use of aeroplanes. You can buy into those programs in a different way than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e460	It is commendable that there is an inter-pelling debate about competition in the Stortinget. Competition may be something we in Stortinget discuss too little. In this sense, it's very important. What is our approach to this matter, of course, is that we have to do what serves the Norwegian market and Norwegian consumers in the long term. I guess that's an important entry. And then, in the competition segment, you are sometimes put in a situation where you might let national romanticism control a little of the conclusions you make, and so on, creates a special system within the competitive segment that is adapted to the national image. The government has done this, for example: as regards the percentage duty on certain agricultural products, and I hear that the representative Kambe argues quite well to do something similar in the aviation sector. It is necessary to take into account the considerations of Kambe's interpellation with regard to travel, business, etc. How will this work out over time? I will admit that I have not – like the Council of State, which I believe has a good approach to a difficult issue – concluded either. I have probably been a little bit to lift the ban, and I have been a little opposed to lifting the ban, and now I am in a dubious phase. As you can see, this discussion is very good. But there is no doubt that what we might choose to do, if we maintain the ban, is to prevent competition and the competitive elements of the aviation market. That's one ratio. The other relationship, which I think we can agree on in such an interpellation debate, is that the mechanism, which is curious, will over time make the Norwegian market more difficult to conquer for a greater competitive surface from the outside world. You get a little more tighter competition by maintaining the ban. That, of course, makes it hard to think forward in time. I am concerned that we get a good and long-term solution to the matter, and then there is one conclusion that I think I have drawn, for my part – without perhaps having to express too much what the Council of State might have to do in this matter: having partial prohibition as a system will be a bad system, I think. That's where I'm aligned with what Kambe's pulling up. I think we need to have an overall approach to this matter. Either we have to choose to maintain the ban, or we have to cancel it and make sure that those who compete can compete with the elements that it is natural to compete with in the rest of the aviation market. That's where we stand. I think the debate is important and thank the interpellant for having traveled it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e477	As a representative from a state that can be severely affected by the possible lifting of the bonus ban, I would like to thank the representative Arve Kambe for bringing the matter up for debate. I have been reminded how the flight offer worked to and from Vigra Ålesund Airport and the other airports in the county, before Right Victor Norman introduced a regulation prohibiting the bonus program in domestic aviation in 2002, when Right was in government. We lived with sky-high prices, few departures and staggering planes with waiting lists. This was a huge problem for an internationally oriented business and for most people in More and Romesdal. The alternative was to shake through the night, down through the Gudbrand valley to Oslo, on the so-called night bus, as it went both two and three off for the night. Today we have two airlines offering domestic scheduled flights to and from Vigra Ålesund airport. We have SAS and Norwegian. Despite the fact that much can still be better, we now have more departures, and the prices are to live with. It is therefore very alarming that the government is at all considering removing the ban on award credits, which was essential for us today to have two airlines at Vigra that operate domestic services. There is no doubt that the ban imposed by Right Victor Norman has led to more competition, increased offers, better quality and lower prices for air passengers – not only in More and Romesdal, but also other places in our long-term country. The Norwegian management has stated correctly that without the bonus ban, the company had not been established or further developed into what it is today. For the business community in Sunnmaere and the rest of the county, this development has had an enormous impact. If the government takes steps to remove the ban on award credits, it means, without a doubt, poorer solutions for people, businesses in general and travel. According to the hearing opinions, both the NHO and the NHO Travel Life are clear opponents of changing today’s system. They refer in their opinions to the strong competition for today’s course and conference guests throughout Norway. There are small margins and high price sensitivity, and therefore it is important for several routes, with good route connections. They also indicate that the North-West and North-Norway in particular will be the losers in the fight against the big cities. On the right, consumers, businesses and the public sector will ensure good quality with low prices, good offers and good competition in the aviation market. I believe that the best way to do this is to keep the legislation in force today, a legislation that has worked well well on the way – not only for the big cities, but also for the people and businesses of District Norway. Should the government join in the proposal of the Competition Authority to reintroduce award points on the three routes between Oslo Airport Gardermoen and Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger, I fear that this will result in further strengthening of the four airports that are currently the best today, at the expense of smaller airports, for example. Vigra at Ålesund. For the county's export-oriented business, the travel industry and for most people this could have dramatic consequences. Then we no longer talk about using the whole country. Then, on the contrary, it's about shutting down business engines in District Norway. I want to add, since I have time, that when I was in the County Committee in More and Romesdal, we sent letters by letter to the then airline Braathens, and asked them nicely to set up additional routes, because the business didn't have access to routes. We had, as I said, the night buses, with which they had to drive. It's not to live with at all. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will think very carefully before she does anything with the offer that we have now managed to renovate in the export-oriented business community of More and Romsdal. We know how values are created, and we know how fast it is to rage what has taken years to build up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e503	The establishment of the carrier Norwegian took place immediately after the government introduced a ban on domestic aviation bonus programmes in 2002. The reason for the prohibition was that the bonus scheme prevented competition. The result of this ban we see today: Norwegian is established as a large company in Norway and Europe, and flight prices have fallen. Most people, with a regular wallet, can travel by plane, and in North Norway, where I come from, this has given very good results. Flight prices have been significantly reduced, and the route offer has improved considerably. The situation today is different in that we have two competing companies on most of the tribal routes. However, the Competition Authority report, which is intended to address the issue of reintroduction, strongly warns against doing so. The scheme can contribute to the weakening of competition, it can contribute to the deterioration of route provision, and it can contribute to the return of ticket prices. I allow myself to quote a little from the report about exactly this: ‘The Authority considers that on the small and medium-sized routes there is a risk of significant deterioration in competition. Even on several of the major domestic routes, some companies have relatively few departures with limited opportunities to reduce the number of departures while maintaining a satisfactory offer. If a company withdraws entirely from a section, the bonus programmes will increase the establishment barrier and make it difficult for that company or other company to re-enter the section.» And that's exactly what I want to encourage the Council of States to pay particular attention to, because that's the long-term effects of reintroducing the system we have to be concerned about -- the long-term effects for the whole country. The Competition Authority has opened up that the bonus scheme can be reintroduced on a few routes, the most trafficked, from Oslo to Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger respectively. I would say that is the worst solution. It will only increase competition and traffic on these few routes. The other grid will, of course, be a balancing item, and it could also have effects on other industries, not least the tourism industry and the course and conference market, which will be even stronger than today against the larger cities at the expense of the rest of the country. I also notice that the NHO Travel Life in its hearing opinion is opposed to the reintroduction of the bonus scheme. My recommendation to the Council of State – and that is, of course, marked by my stand in North Norway – is therefore that we should not reintroduce the scheme. The long-term effects could lead to a weakening of the air supply. Nevertheless, the reintroduction of the scheme must take place throughout the country. Introducing it on just a few distances will be the worst solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e523	The ban on bonus ignition on domestic air routes, together with other measures, has contributed to a major change in the domestic air supply. The change is of a positive nature for travellers, with more routes and lower prices. As a matter of fact, everyone has had a share in that bonus. Internal aviation is an important trajectory for the transport of both goods and people and is involved in bringing the country closer together. If we are to achieve the objective of establishing and diversifying business across the country, air communications must also be good. The centre party is very busy that we are also going to secure a real competition in aviation and a good deal also on the so-called thin routes. We are therefore very concerned that the assessments that are made must be thorough, so that we do not make any changes that would compromise the route offer, which may result in fewer routes and higher prices. The Competition Authority has therefore concluded that the ban on bonus ignition should be maintained, but that it can be opened for bonus ignition on the three main routes between Gardermoen and Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger respectively. The Competition Authority concludes that the granting of bonus programmes on the three main routes will not distort competition for aviation in the Oslo region or in the West. Routes to and from smaller airports in the West are largely thin routes. The centre party has noticed that the Competition Authority believes that bonus ignition at these airports can have the same effect as for other thin routes. It poses a risk of fewer departures and route closures at these aerodromes. The Competition Authority believes that this effect will be stronger than the one that occurs if only the three routes from Gardermoen to Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger are allowed to ignite the bonus. This gives reason to be on the watch for the effects you get with the ban. Even with the suspension of the ban on only a few selected routes, this could have negative consequences for route provision in District Norway. The Central Party therefore welcomes the fact that the Council of State will go thoroughly through the solutions proposed by the Competition Authority and see their purpose. The centre party is coming forward to work strongly to secure an aircraft structure and a route offering that ensures a good transport offer throughout the country. We are therefore concerned that any suspension should not compromise the route provision at the other aerodromes. I would otherwise like to thank you for a good tone in the debate. I was part of the throne debate, and I felt that any shields and restrictions from the right-hand side were very harmful. Here we have a good tone in relation to the fact that there is also a need to regulate competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e544	In 2002, the then State Council, Victor Norman, imposed a ban on award credits for domestic air traffic. The ban was made permanent in 2007, through the bonus regulation, by then Minister of Renewal and Administration Heidi Grande Røys, on the grounds that the prices had fallen by 30 pst. the first years following the introduction of the prohibition. Among the airlines, SAS has been against the ban all along, while Norwegian has been a supporter of it. Norwegian has taken market shares from SAS since the prohibition of award credits was established. Competition supervision is therefore now in place to remove the ban on three major routes. For the Progress Party, free competition in aviation is important and right. For the last decade, we have witnessed a raging development in Norwegian aviation. Competition has increased, and prices have fallen sharply in favour of business, private travellers and districts. But it is important in this debate not to lock itself in concrete terms to the relationship between SAS and Norwegian. For the Progress Party, it is important to get more players into Norwegian aviation, so that we can push prices further in favour of Norwegian business and leisure. Therefore, it is also important to facilitate the entry of several actors into the market. Many airports, not least in the districts, can enjoy lower prices and increased offers for travellers. There is clearly a great deal of disagreement between stakeholders and the political environment as to whether the bonus programme will weaken competition in the aviation market or whether it will only expand and improve the offer of travellers. But now Norway is the only country where there is a ban on domestic bonus programmes. In Sweden and other countries, SAS has the same programme for domestic travellers, but in Norway it is not actually allowed. The competitive element of the bonus programme lies in the additional service and flexibility offered by airlines. The lifting of the ban may well lead to more business travellers choosing to travel with SAS, irrespective of the price itself, but there is reason to believe that leisure travellers will nevertheless be more concerned with the price than the services provided in an advantage programme. The government has no principle of the bonus programme when it opens up the lifting of the ban on three routes. The question is how the Council of State considers this to affect competition with nearby airports. When the government does not have a clear, principled approach to the issue, it may also be time to draw up an independent investigation into the competitive situation and conditions of competition in Norwegian aviation, for the benefit of the market, operators, business and private travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e565	I will begin by thanking the interpellant, my good colleague Arve Kambe, for an extremely well-trained interpellant. The debate also looks – interestingly enough – to be quite broad scepticism about bonus schemes, for reasons that have been explained more widely by other participants in the debate. I just want to remind you of the attempt to lock customers in by building thresholds that limit the freedom of choice for consumers. You can probably tempt the individual in a travel situation, but such thresholds and lock-in lead to weakened competition and thus more expensive travel for all of us. And then we all become losers, no matter where we live, and what's our travel pattern. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Competition Authority – by all means – launches an intermediate variant that will in itself help to shift the distortion of competition from one area to another. It is with interest that I can also sum up at this stage in the debate and say that the so-called 'intermediate' option does not have much support in the Chamber either. I also hope that the Council of State will note that. So we really stand between two points of view, either a bonus on all routes, or no bonus, and thus a reinforced competition for all to the delight of the travellers. However, I could have liked a clearer direction from the Council of State, in which direction she would go further in order to ensure fair competition between the airlines as far as possible. It seems that the Council of State has not decided, has no meaning, has no principle attitude to it. Therefore, from this point on, I would like to encourage the Council of State to ‘come out’ and provide a clearer guideline. Sometimes it is the way in the world that more investigative capacity should not be used, not more taxpayers' money, to investigate something that is fundamentally a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e574	First to the head of the nutrition committee, Terje Aasland, whom I also experience has helped clear up the debate in such a way that I understand that even for the Workers' Party it is either everything or nothing. It's a necessary clarification that it's also good to get out of the Storting's pulpit. But that comparison between customs increase and bonus bans has some relevance – here I would say that customs increase affects consumers, while bonus bans are to the benefit of consumers. So I didn't quite understand that – I think maybe the leader didn't quite understand it either. Otherwise, I also think Geir-Ketil Hansen, who speaks on behalf of SV, had a good competitive orientation in his post. More of that from SV had been nice. But I think the representative Bergsvåg, from the Central Party, also contributes. This means that the key is now at the Workers' Party. We heard the articles of the Progress Party here, those that have been skeptical in the past, to say it carefully, to ban bonuses, open up because it actually worked. So we're left with the Arbeiderpartiet that's going to decide whether it's going to be a bonus ban or not. If today's system is maintained, the Central Party and the Government's SV will not be critical. Nor does it seem that any of the opposition parties will be critical. Maybe the only ones are dissatisfied, SAS. It's a heavy argument for SAS, but we don't necessarily have one company in mind when Stortinget decides framework conditions. The Right too, which is in favour of free competition and a free market, knows that if the market is not regulated, it will develop into monopolies. That's why you have competition supervision, that's why you're guarding competition: you want to make sure there's competition. Ironically, a ban contributes to lower prices and better competition. It's been doing that for ten years. That's one of my points, too, to clarify that if it ain't broken, don't fix it, as they say America, whether you're a Republican or a Democrat. I think that's actually a pretty good approach for Norway. I feel that the debate has cleared up alternatives in the case of airports. That argument is so good and objective that the Council of State sees it. Thus, the discussion in the future may be whether all routes should be awarded a bonus point, or whether no one should receive a bonus point. The debate that has been here today suggests that there are most good arguments for no one to get it because it has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e587	It is interesting to be here today, to have gone to the Stortinget, to listen to the input of big business representatives into a matter that the government has to deal with – and then be accused of not having a principle attitude and not wanting to present it when you are in the storeroom. It's not as good to know exactly how to satisfy the Storting compared to having the opportunity to influence the government's policy. I am pleased with the recordings we have received, I am pleased with the debate we have had, but to me from the pulpit of the Stortinge to announce what I think about the matter, a matter that is so exchange-sensitive, I hope the representatives respect that I will not do so. Then, in this debate, you have made a lot of good input that I'm going to take with you. I just want to stay with a few of the things that have been said, because I am concerned that we will have competition in the aviation market in Norway. I think that's absolutely crucial. This has contributed to lower prices in Norway, as in most other European countries. It is quite right that the Competition Authority has said that a lifting of the bonus ban could affect the performance of Norwegian in the order of 2.2 pst. We have to take that into account in the further work of deciding. But then I have to let myself say that the debate here sounds like only SAS has a bonus program. That's not right. Norwegian has it too – where you get between 2 pst. and 10 pst. of the travel value as award credits. If you use a credit card with the Norwegian logo attached to Bank Norwegian, you can get up to 20 pst. Then it would have been interesting to join the debate, but I understand that you haven't wanted to say anything about it. Are we also going to ban the programme that Norwegian now has? It is also a bonus programme, although it does not have the thresholds and may not have the same obvious lock-in effect as the EuroBonus programme for SAS. There are now also opportunities to purchase at thresholds – not just to earn money and the benefits associated with buying travel. The case shows that there are several different aspects to consider. I can assure the representative that the government will do the further work on this matter. We're not going to need any more investigations until we decide. We have enough reason to decide, but I think it was right, as I said, to bring in the recordings that the Stortinge gave here, before we go to government treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e614	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. The President will also propose that there be a change of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e623	Family immigrants and migrant workers are the two largest groups of immigrants to Norway. Last year almost 13 000 family immigration permits were granted, and the number is increasing. The case today concerns family reunification when the parties have lived together before the person who lives here came to Norway or when the applicant is the child of the reference person. It's about things that mean a lot to them. The right to family life is therefore protected by international conventions. At the same time, there is a cross-political agreement that the right to family reunification cannot be unlimited. We need legislation to ensure that the referee can support the mover to Norway. The maintenance requirement is currently NOK 242 440 – from 1 May 2012 corresponding to 88 pst. of salary step 19. With a new foreign law in 2010, the maintenance requirements were tightened. Only the income of the reference person counts and the requirement also applies when applying for family reunification is a Norwegian citizen or a non-resident with a permanent residence permit. There were several reasons for that. Among other things, Stortinget would ensure the ability to provide self-sufficiency, and there was an expressed desire to find rules that could counteract coercion. No one has so far argued that this was wrong, nor has the Committee considered it necessary to organise a hearing in the case. However, now that we are discussing possible legislative changes or adjustments, this is because we have seen that the new rules have also had unintended effects. It's hard to make rules that cover all possible cases. We humans are as known different. This is also why the Department has asked the UDI to report unintended effects. The draft representative refers to a look-up in the evening post in January this year, and there have been several cases in which some of us have asked questions as to whether this was the intention. This may apply to students, time taken from the income requirement is actually fulfilled until the application is completed, families who have lived abroad, reference persons with temporary leave from permanent employment, or that we are not EEA citizens in their own country – to mention anything. We also see large differences in the grant rate according to the nationality of the applicant. It is e.g. far higher for applicants from Thailand, the Philippines and Russia than from some other countries. Applications from e.g. Somalia, Morocco and Turkey are rejected much more frequently on grounds of pro forma. Some of these issues relate to family start-up — which is not a topic today — but also in the case of family reunification, there may be grounds for looking at both attitudes and gender differences in the way the legislation turns out. The question we are discussing today is really what is the best way to correct such unintended effects. The proposers want more discretion for the foreign authorities when deciding whether the maintenance requirement of Section 58 of the Foreign Affairs Act is met. The Committee does not agree and unanimously proposes that the proposal of the Left should be annexed to the Protocol, but with slightly different reasons. Instead, the Committee refers to the two letters of the Council of State to the Storting on this matter, which state that a work has already been undertaken to find policy solutions in the form of instructions or regulatory changes based on the unintended effects reported by the UDI. In particular, there will be a focus on whether current rules are unduly limiting the right of children to family reunification with their parents and whether there are systematic differences in cases where men and women are reference persons respectively. Some instructions have already been given. A regulatory change has recently been sent to the hearing. I expect the Council of State to take a closer look at this in its statement, including on the question of future income requirements and the question of including redundancy payments in the income base for family reunification. This is a different approach from that adopted by the proposers. The question is whether we should leave to the administration to draw up new boundaries or whether this should be governed politically. Thus, a nearly unanimous committee believes that this is a matter of policy. In addition, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that today a proposal from the Progress Party has been presented to go the opposite way, to implement further regulatory tightening. As the rapporteur, I think it might be a little special that this proposal comes now, and was not included as part of the committee's work and in the committee's position. But it is fully legal, and I expect the Progress Party itself to take up and justify its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e640	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review and a good description of the state of things. As the case rapporteur pointed out, family immigrants are one of the largest immigrant groups we now have in Norway, and it is increasing. There are some challenges related to family reunions. As has also been said in the case, we have some unintended effects that make the legislation feel unfair. It is incredibly difficult to establish a regulatory framework to take account of the fact that there is no such thing as injustice. Such legislation will be comprehensive and very rigid and can nevertheless be seen as unfair by some. In any case, when we have legislation like this that we have today, it is relatively strict – although, in the opinion of the Progress Party, there are some shortcomings. I think that if you make relief or give room for even more understanding, it can have even more unintended effects than today. I don't think that's a big advantage. Everyone has the right to fall in love, and everyone has the right to a family life – it should just be missing. However, it is not a right that family life should possibly be in Norway. It is fully possible when people fall in love — even if one partner is Norwegian — to settle in the country with the other partner. There is a possibility that exists and can be used. It was also mentioned that there is a difference between men and women. Yes, there is a difference between men and women – fortunately. There are some challenges to this, including: pro forma. This turns out to be a bigger challenge when there are women picking up partners than when there are men. In the case of men picking up partners, forced marriage is a major challenge that we should definitely take seriously. Otherwise, I believe there should be no difference between men and women in relation to belonging to the country, or in relation to, for example. maintenance requirements. Whether you are a man or a woman, when a partner gets to Norway, it is appropriate to require that the partner who is in Norway be able to entertain its new partner. It won't make any difference if you're a man or a woman. I know that it has previously been mentioned that the level of pay is lower for women than for men. This may be true, but living in Norway costs as much regardless of whether the partner lives in Norway is male or female. The Progress Party has now made some proposals, and the rapporteur was amazed that they have not come before in dealing with the matter. Yes, I was a little surprised myself too, but as family immigration has had as much focus as it has recently, we thought it was right to promote the proposal now and take it into account. Otherwise, the Progress Party has drawn up a separate document 8 on this subject, but it will come later. A little about the reasons for these proposals: With regard to the maintenance requirement, we believe that it should be adjusted in order to be in line with the wage developments in Norway and the current level of income. With regard to the proposal for a 24-year-old age limit, it is mainly set to be involved in and prevent forcible marriages. As far as the link is concerned, it is considered important that those who get partners to Norway have a link with Norway, and can refer to a link with Norway – the majority of the connection should be with Norway. We believe that the proposals are in place – we believe it is important to intensify a little. We're afraid that a relief in demands and the exercise of more discretion will be involved in creating more unintended effects than those we have today, and there is no merit in doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e657	Is it the case that the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e660	That's right, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e665	Then the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e668	I would like to dwell for a moment with the representative Ørsal Johansen's reason that, after the committee has concluded its proceedings and promoted its suspension, two very fundamental questions are raised – quite rightly at the brink, or on the outside again, of what the Left's issue is – about a 24 year limit on family reunification and the prohibition of marriage between siblings. It would have been an advantage if such proposals had been examined in the Committee, so that other parties could also relate to them in the comments. I also record that the reason is that so much has to have happened in the field of immigration between the committee's release and the debate here today. I can't quite see that it matches the reality. Otherwise, we can see that at least the committee reading and the comments show that there is no strong political desire to change the principles behind the legislation. At the same time, I must say that I understand the concerns of the Left. They want a greater degree of discretion, because you see that some decisions seem rigid in cases that you might not have so far advanced in consciousness when you make the law. The issue of the Left is once again whether a slightly greater judgement should be introduced in assessing whether the maintenance requirement of Section 58 of the Foreign Affairs Act is met. Now, this is not the way the Left implicitly says, that the Storting has not been aware that you wanted a tightening when you changed the Foreign Affairs Act. It was the intention of the changes that you would have a raised income requirement to ensure that those who are staying in our country are actually cared for by the so-called reference person. There was also a concern that you want to fight against coercion. Having said that, I can only say on behalf of the Right that we are responsive to assess unintended effects. We also await this experience report that the UDI has been asked to prepare. We have to make sure, however, that we as legislators do not give too much discretion. If there are isolated cases that you have not considered, you should write a regulation of them into the law to the extent that it is practically possible. I'm in favour of a margin of discretion, but it can't be so large that the administration gets so big that we introduce arbitrariness to the group it's dealing with. In terms of ability to support others, I will strike a blow at income limits. Income is essentially the most objective sign of dependability, so it is not unnatural to have income limits when assessing the ability of the reference person to support others. It is also reasonable to choose an automatic adjustment, which means that the threshold does not change unintentionally as prices and wages change. With these words, we will support the position of the Committee – the majority vote – and recommend the proposal of the Left attached to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e683	Thank you to Trine Skei Grande for an important and well-founded proposal for a representative, thank you to the rapporteur for not least a very thorough presentation of the possible unintended effects of the legislation and practices we now have, and thank you to the Council of State, which says that we are in a process on this matter. We are now in a consultation period. If the aim was generally to reduce immigration and family immigration to Norway, the intensification was successful in its time. The rapporteur-in-Office has gone so far. If the intention was to prevent students, people with a slight temporary relationship with the labour market, or poor people living together as a family – either reunited or newly established – it was also a successful contraction. It is then said that, among other things. Women are hit extra hard. In general, I think we all want to stand up for the right to make partnerships, to live together, either as two or as a family with children. It is a value that we generally set high in our society, and as political parties in other debates are almost fighting a little to highlight as an important – let's say – fundamental element of our society. But it is this value that this intensification in its time challenged, both in terms of reuniting, establishing and in practice living together. So it's interesting that the Progress Party, which probably all other parties, emphasizes that this is very important to take care of. But the Progress Party says it's going to take care of abroad and not within our borders – people get to move out if they want to live together that way! That's an interesting principle attitude. Yeah, well, we were supposed to prevent coercion. But do we really know that it has prevented forcible marriage? I think we're missing a little bit more detailed information about what has been the consequence of the intensification that happened in its time, not just the unintended effects, but whether the intensification was really a contribution to achieving what was the main reason. As it appears to me to date, this appears to be a code of the type ‘to shoot sparrows with cannons’. It is so much unintentionally negative to achieve by what might have been the main reason in its time, namely to prevent or reduce the number of forced marriages. I guess more and more that it has to be solved in ways other than what we've done here, but for the time being, this is what a large majority has chosen. Proposals for all changes that give more room for discretion, wisdom, respect for the desire of the individual to reunite – and I take with me establishment, sail if it is not formally included in the case and the discussion here today – have been commended. At the same time, I think Michael Tetzschner has some good reflections on how far you should go, or – from us – say that you should change your senses. If we take it too far, it's basically a little bit problematic. Then there's more of a regulatory adjustment we might need to be looking for. But now let's take the hearings and the hearings and then take the debate after it's over. This doesn't just have to do with showing respect for the wishes of the individual. Not least I think it's a good idea for our community, for our society, that as many as possible of those living within Norway's borders are given the opportunity to live out what's sailed for us – let's say – ethnic Northmen, just to have the opportunity to live in a partnership, live with others, live as a whole family. So finally a little bit about this with the exercise of judgment and what you should take into account. If this is an important argument, which many have already argued, that – let's say – this unit should be economically seagoing, it should not be an economic burden on society, then it is a little difficult to understand that one should not take into account the person who comes to us, to our society, that his/her income or income potential should not count in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e702	The proposers ask the government to amend the foreign regulation so that judgement is more open when deciding whether the maintenance requirement is met. It is suggested that in 2008, the amendment of the law, where the maintenance requirement was reinforced, was justified solely by the argument to prevent forced marriage. This is not true. It is clear from the preparatory work of the Foreign Affairs Act that one of the aims of strengthening the income requirement was to ensure that the person receiving a residence permit as a family member can actually be depended on by the reference person. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is an important principle. Among other things, introduced a rule that previous income should also be required and that the maintenance requirement should apply mainly when the reference person is a Norwegian national. Then I agree with the proposers that the changes have had some unintended consequences for some groups, for example. for students taking a period of leave after completion of studies and for trainees who have too low income to meet the requirement of previous income but who, when they return, have higher education and meet the requirement for future income in a rich month. It is also unreasonable that applicants who have previously had a residence permit in Norway and who work for a longer period abroad should not be included in their own income, but only the income of the reference person if they wish to move back. In the context of the 2010 letter of award, the UDI was asked to report any unintended effects of new foreign law, paying particular attention to the effects of tightening up the maintenance requirement. Following the evaluation of this report, the Ministry came on 5 July this year with an instruction on exemptions. This applies, inter alia, to: the following: there are exceptions in cases where the applicant has lived in an established family life with the reference person over time, where they are Norwegian nationals, and in cases where the applicant has previously had a residence permit, the expected income of the applicant shall be taken into account. There are exceptions in cases where the reference person has had a traineeship abroad or where the reference person has extended a study stay abroad that has given at least 60 study credits. These are clearly cases where the legislative change had an unintended effect — including for example: for students who have granted themselves a year off abroad but who, at the time of application, have a permanent position which clearly meets the requirement for future income. In addition, a number of recent amendments were sent to the hearing. It is proposed that the requirement for previous income should not be demonstrated by an Equation Certificate, but that confirmation by the Equation Authorities of the reported income of the employer should be sufficient. This is a documentation that UDI very much accepts today as well. In cases where the level of income is clearly sufficient, it is illogical for one to wait nearly one year for an Equation Certificate to be issued by the tax authorities. It is proposed that in cases where the reference person has been granted permanent social security benefits, it is not necessary to provide evidence of previous social security benefits. It is also natural, as future income in such cases will be totally predictable. It is also proposed to raise the maintenance requirement for family start-up to NOK 261 700, i.e. 95 pst. of salary step 19. This is, in my view, a natural increase in the rate of wage growth in general and a minimum level if the possibility of living is to be real. The Ministry also considers that, in certain cases, it should be possible to include redundancy benefits in the same way as social security benefits. Personally, I think it would be natural. After all, the transition from redundancy pay to work, to re-schooling, or to a graduated or fully disabled job is either back to work, in all cases a foreseeable future income. The above-mentioned changes were implemented and notified, I believe, are sufficient to clean up the known unintended effects of the contractions. But of course we need to pay attention to that in the future. The proposals of the Progress Party contain at least two questions of principle which require much more thorough treatment than is possible when it comes to the table here today. That is why I cannot support it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e719	We need a foreign administration based on three main pillars: justice, legal certainty and humanity. We guarantee justice, it guarantees the legitimacy of the administration. Those who are not supposed to be in Norway should not be. But those who have the right or need to be in Norway, we have a duty to provide. Legal certainty ensures that everyone receives the follow-up to them, the information that they should have and the rights that they have. Humanity shall ensure that the people behind the figures, applications and statistics are viewed and respected. In recent years, we have repeatedly seen cases where the legislation has been overruled, but where discretion has not been exercised by government teams. This has led to situations where families live divided, and children grow up without one of their parents. It must not be a general objective to close borders and make it unduly difficult to enter the country. We also need the ability to take into account the right to family life. UDI does as the government says, and follows the code to the point and the dot. But behind these points and these dots are people. Several report that we have a code where it is not possible to show discretion. The former director of the Foreign Affairs Directorate, Ida Børresen, has stated that the rules are unfair, and she thought it was time to change the rule, so that the discretionary room got bigger. The same can be said today, despite the Minister of Justice's attempt to give the impression that now there is more room for discretion. On 5 July this year, the Minister of Justice tried what I would call a humanization of the legislation. But the little thing she gave was eaten by what she took, for the government has announced an increase in the maintenance requirement by approx. NOK 20 000, thus approaching the Advance Party, which will increase it further. In increasing the maintenance requirement, the government makes it even more difficult for families to get together — even more difficult for spouses to spend their lives together, even more difficult for the children of these families to live with both mother and father. The Christian People's Party believes that the maintenance requirement should still correspond to what previously constituted pay step 8, namely NOK 232 400. Moreover, any increases in the maintenance requirement must not go beyond the growth in wages and salaries. At the same time, it is time to give the foreign authorities greater opportunity to use judgement when the legislation is unfair. The UDI shall be able to see the people behind the figures, the fates behind the statistics and the possibilities behind the applications. They must get the room for action to support those who need it, and of course also the strength to reject where there is no basis for staying. There has been talk about what the reason for the maintenance requirement has been. Several have pointed to the fact that this was introduced to counter forced marriages. This was the reason why this scheme was introduced. I think Aksel Hagen has a very interesting approach when he asks the question: Has the maintenance requirement had the effect that we thought was the basis for when we introduced this scheme? That's a question that I think we should take with us. I also hope the Minister of Justice noticed that question, because there is a system that might be time to get an evaluation of, to see if the system has managed to counteract forced marriage, as it was supposed to do. The left will come forward with a proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber. I expect the Left's representative to promote this proposal himself, but I would just like to say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e746	I would like to first correct the Advance Party a little. It's not a human right to fall in love. Personally, I have to say that it was quite a long time ago – I remember – I was really in love. I'm not going to demand that the state help me in that area. What's a human right is living together as a family. It's a clear human right. You are allowed to live with those who are your family. That's what this is about. Everyone agrees on the framework here. The left has also agreed to have an age limit, but also to have a maintenance requirement. It is quite right, as Mr. Bekkevold says, that the maintenance requirement was argued for in this room alone and with forced marriage as a background. In a more international society, there are good reasons to have a maintenance requirement. If you're going to be able to establish a family, I think you must also have a certain financial foundation for that family. I believe that these are good arguments for otherwise too. There is no one here who speaks against the entertainment requirement, nor the Left. The restrictions in several of the measures were taken, including with the votes of the Left, to prevent forced marriage. But it was not done to prevent Norwegian ladies from falling in love with carpenters from New Zealand. It's actually UDI that has taken this up. It's not often that the UDI mentions that they want changed and better rules in such fields, as they have done here. I'm not looking for what Tetzschner describes as a great discretionary playroom, but I think it must be possible to have a code where you have the objective of the regulation in mind. I've had an interpellation here earlier where I told you about 50-year-old ladies from Klebu who fall in love with an adult, separated from 50 from Egypt, but who are stopped by the rules of coercion. The rules on coercion affect their ability to live together as a married couple. Then I believe that you have lost the aim dramatically of sight, because the risk of that marriage being a coercion is dramatic. We're in a society that's still developing to become more international. The progress party can take it quite calmly, there are increasing numbers of people who are normal, those who may vote in favour of the Progress Party, who come under this legislation and are being hit. There are no more 16-year-old girls getting married to a Pakistani cousin. We travel around – we travel in holiday context, we travel in job context, we travel in study context. What happens on these trips is that the North also falls in love and wants to establish a family. That is why we need a regulation that is predictable and has a clear framework that people know how to deal with it in order to live together as a family. Then we get all of these weird angles that we've seen in the media lately. Then we see couples who have to go to Denmark, which in Norway as well has been produced as the great nightmare country for family reunification. Denmark is now the safe haven for many Norwegian couples who will be able to live together as a married couple, but who choose to live in Copenhagen and commute to work in Oslo, because it is only in Copenhagen that they can live together as a married couple. I think we need to have a code that at least has some safety valves, where you can see that it wasn't these pairs we were looking to stop. If you have a high million income, e.g. As an oil engineer, you decide to take a year off and travel in Latin America. In Latin America you'll find the world's most beautiful woman, you mean seaman, to whom you marry during your free year. Then you come to Norway, and then you might think she'll get in. No, it doesn't help that you have million income. It doesn't help you having all the things you thought you were going to have to live together as a family, because you've actually had a year off. So you haven't had income exactly the year you fell in love with, so you don't get family reunion with your wife, which is from, for example, Peru. That's how we see a lot of strange things, where you have a safety valve in the law or with a law that focuses on the goal, you would have avoided all of these cases that clearly don't mean we're going to hit. A lot of people feel that they are going to be terribly sorry about being Norwegian, when they experience meeting the bureaucracy that way. I don't want people to be. With this I would like to raise the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e769	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e772	An important purpose of the maintenance requirement in family immigration issues is to ensure that people who bring their family to Norway are actually self-sufficient. On this basis, the restrictions imposed by the government in January 2010 were important and correct. At the same time, I am concerned that the legislation should not have unintended effects or appear unnecessarily stringent. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has therefore commissioned the Directorate of Foreign Affairs to report on the unintended effects of new foreign law. This includes a specific request for the directorate to report on the unintended effects of the restrictions imposed by the family immigration maintenance requirement. In view of, inter alia: In July this year, the directorate of Foreign Affairs gave instructions to the UDI on exemptions from the maintenance requirement. The instruction provides for an extended use of the provision allowing for exemptions from the maintenance requirement following a discretionary assessment. However, non-discrimination, predictability and effective treatment strongly argue that the requirement for guaranteed maintenance is mainly regular, not discretionary. I believe, however, that there was reason to allow for more exceptions, as the legislation seems to have worked unnecessarily rigidly in some contexts. The instruction provides for a greater degree of exemption for established families with children. The instructions include, inter alia: exemption from the maintenance requirement may be granted when the applicant has lived in a long and established family life with a Norwegian citizen and the parties have a common Norwegian child. Similarly, couples with a common Norwegian child born in Norway may benefit from a derogation if the applicant was legally resident when the child was born. The instructions also provide for exemptions from the previous income requirement when the applicant has previously had a residence permit in Norway as the spouse of the reference person, cohabitants or children, and the family wishes to return to Norway after a foreign stay. Furthermore, the instructions provide for exemptions from the requirement for previous income when it is evident that the reference person has had the necessary income capacity. This may, for example, be that he has had good income over several years but has taken a free year. Similar exemptions may also include: are made for persons who have resided abroad in the course of an extension of a study stay, such as: The representative, Skei Grande, was inside. The level of the maintenance requirement is also important. As the committee points out in the setting, changes in the main pay table were made in ours, so that the table now starts at stage 19. The Ministry of Justice and Defence therefore made changes in the way the maintenance requirement is regulated in the summer but without changing the level of the maintenance requirement. The Ministry has recently sent a proposal to cancel the maintenance requirement with approximately NOK 20 000, and then on issues relating to the establishment of a new family life. Figures from the Directorate for Foreign Affairs show that the proportion of rejection decisions in family immigration cases is higher when the reference person is a woman than when the reference person is a man. This I have been busy going deeper into. On this basis, the Ministry has asked for input from the hearing bodies in the same letter of consultation on the basis of specific measures to prevent the different functioning of the maintenance requirement for women and men and on the appropriate measures to be taken. The Ministry will later also assess whether, in certain cases, redundancy benefits should be taken into account when assessing whether the income requirement has been met. It is the Foreign Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department that have to make the discretionary assessment in individual cases, and there will always be issues in which individuals disagree that no exemption from the maintenance requirement is made. However, I believe that the changes we have now made and will make will ensure appropriate legislation that balances the interests of non-discrimination, predictability and efficiency on the one hand, and the need to avoid unduly rigid decisions on the other, in an even better way if possible than today. However, the government will follow this legislation carefully, as I also hear representatives from the SV and the Christian People's Party point out, and we must ensure a good and appropriate regulation also in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e791	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e794	I want to review what I was about in my post – what Aksel Hagen was also concerned about – namely the effect of the maintenance requirement. Does it have the effect of counteracting coercive marriages, or is it such that the maintenance requirement has completely different effects? My question is: Will the Minister of Justice initiate an evaluation of the maintenance requirement to see if it has the effect of countering forced marriage?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e799	Major changes were made to the rules in 2010. The maintenance requirement has several purposes. The question of preventing coercion is one of them, but also the ability to sustain. The need to ensure an integrated system is important in this way. Nevertheless, legislation and, not least, legislative changes need to be followed closely, not least in this area. There is also some background that we have asked the Foreign Affairs Directorate to follow up and report, and that we are also now making changes. We will continue to follow. If we're also good at doing broader reviews later on, I won't rule out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e804	Governments have said several times that she is open to change, and she has said that UDI has to report. It's not just UDI that reports, we also have media that have reported many strange angles. But it seems like the state council is just making new rules for each case where you see that the rule turns out strange. You'll always get new cases like this. For example, the state council has now opened up some changes in students, but those changes will not help the engineer who took a year off to go to Latin America, as I used as an example. You'll always get new stories like that, because we live so different lives. Does the Council of State think that she can keep up with all those changes and always be able to create a new rule to include each new group and each thought situation, or would it be a little easier if you had any notions of discretion within the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e813	This is a regulation where I don't think we can have any illusions that as long as we set limits, we will avoid having discussions on individual matters. Nevertheless, not least from the case-rapporteur, but also from others, it is explained why it is very important to ensure good political treatment in this area as well. I remember, as Minister of Justice on a previous occasion, that this was one of the areas in which the Stortinget had also gone thoroughly into the handling of the regulation. That's why I see that we need administrative judgement, but the discretionary room is served by delimitation, so that we ensure that there are political judgements and decisions on the basis of which to deal as fairly as possible with the individual issues that are being dealt with in the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e818	As I see it, there are two main frames attached to this. One is that we do not want to use marriage as a sales ticket for a Norwegian passport – i.e. compulsory marriage – and we do not want to use marriage reunification or marriage if you are unable to support the person. There is a broad consensus in this Chamber to be a framework for this, and in order to create that framework, we have fallen into all the small details of the legislation. But besides that, I'm excited about what it is the Council of State is afraid that can happen if you exercise a certain discretion. What is going to happen to Norway if, within the framework of the fight against coerciveness, within the framework of people's being able to live good lives and pay for themselves, pay taxes and contribute to Norwegian society, we exercise this discretion? What is the state council afraid of happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e823	As I explained instead, the requirement for sustainability and income levels has several purposes. The maintenance requirement is not only set to regulate issues of coercion or not, it is also a regulation that provides the framework for who is allowed to stay in Norway. We do not have free immigration, and then there is a great demand for fair and equal treatment for applicants for asylum or stay in Norway. So simple and so difficult is this, and setting a good framework for an administration that is also to ensure good and legal certainty in dealing with individual cases is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e828	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e834	Just a few small comments. I think it has been a good debate, I think we are relatively united, and I am really a little surprised that the proposer could not at least express very little pleasure at what has emerged in the debate, and was a little satisfied. Stepe Skei Grande says that the UDI has addressed this on its own initiative and that the legislation has shown some weaknesses. In my first post, I was also concerned that there were actually some assignments from the department to the UDI to report back on the legislation. Otherwise we do some committee work here in the hall, and it's a little bit special. It was a unanimous setting. Two of the parties represented in the committee have now changed their view of when we gave the vote. It's a little bit special, but to the extent that it's okay. Trine Skei Grande says that the code should not be snowcreed for Norwegian ladies who marry carpenters from New Zealand. It was one of the things that was going on in the evening post. As far as I know, this matter was resolved by being allowed to stay on his own basis because he had a competence that Norway needed. The information obligation of the authorities may also be a point that is important to bring here. If you see that you have the opportunity to stay on a different basis from the one you are initially applying for, you should get some good information about it. It's also made as if there's no room for discretion here at all, but it does. We had an example of such a case in my municipality. It was a Mishion right-wing couple, she was Norwegian, and he was originally from the Philippines. They married in Norway, had been married for 15 years, had been out, went home again, and suddenly stood in a situation where three teenage children and mother came home, but Father did not come home. That case converted the UDI on its own basis. So some kind of discretion is that. That Denmark is a sanctuary, we've known for years, but I'm not quite sure if it's a sanctuary just in this context. It may also be linked to the fact that there is a separate EEA family reunification legislation, which has slightly different rules than the Norwegian ones. In fact, we are not considered to be EEA citizens in our own country, but if EEA citizens come from other EEA countries to Norway, then one will experience some of the same thing that Trine Skei Grande referred to from Denmark. The main idea of my debate is that we agree very much on the matter, but we disagree on the method. For my part, I am a member of a system in which there are elected politicians who set the limits and not an administrative apparatus beyond what is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e851	I also believe that politicians should set the limits. It's sunny! It is in this Chamber that we have to make legislation. I was involved in the treatment of that code when we adopted it here, and I don't think the point was to stop carpenters from New Zealand. I don't think that's why. I don't think it was an expressed political wish from this room. I don't think it was those people you wanted to hit, and then we have to change the legislation. That's the way it is in my head. It is not that when it has unintended effects, we have to say that it is important to hold on to this because it is the politicians who have determined it. No, the politicians have to decide something new. That's how the system works. The fact that you managed to get this done by having your own labour immigration agreement, but failed by family reunification, shows that something is wrong with our system, and then we have to look at the legislation. The representative of Christoffersen thought that I should express more joy. I'm glad the council says she wants to look at the legislation, but I'm not quite sure she's doing it the right way. For example, what came yesterday was a direct tightening and even more distortion than what we see here. I think you have to look at this with new eyes, make clear what goals the Storting has set as limits for family reunification, and have those objectives clearly set throughout the system. And then here we see a very different treatment of groups based on gender. When I worked on this, it was strange to see how easy and fast it was if the countries were Russia, the Philippines and Thailand – the countries to which men most often go – but how difficult it was if, for example, it was. was Turkey, where some Norwegian women have found their husbands. In fact, for a while, all family reunion cases from Turkey were stopped by the UDI, because there was a suspicion that there was a marriage agency that contributed to contact between Turkish men and Norwegian women. Then I wonder where the UDI has gone in the case of Thailand, the Philippines and Russia – in the case of Norwegian men. Here's a sexual injustice that I think the Council of State has to look at, even in terms of practice. So I notice that there's a change in voting, that proposals are being presented here in the hall and like that. I think that's good. That's what I think I'm talking in favor of Stortinget. I think it also indicates that this committee had benefited from representation from the Left, and I hope to do something about that within a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e864	I'll be brief, because I see that the debaters in the next case are already in place. I only have a few small things, including: that Trine Skei Grande was in the room now, with Turkey versus Thailand: I don't know when Trine Skei Grande came into the room, but this was actually one of the main points in my first post as case rapporteur, and which the Council of State has also followed up on. And then I have basically just one question left: does the representative Trine Skei Grande think that with increased administrative discretion we will no longer find strange things in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e871	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e885	I'm a little unsure whether I needed to take the word, but I'm just going to recommend the committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e890	The rapporteur then recommended that the Committee should be set up. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e906	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e915	This matter that we are about to deal with now contains three elements, and all the elements affect the relationship between public services and the life we live as individuals in civil society. It's important to find good intersections between these two areas. Norway is dependent on a workline that provides those who can, opportunities for work, and to facilitate people to combine work and care tasks and work and health challenges in a good way. Norway has schemes that contribute to high employment and birth rate, and we are now in the process of implementing reforms that will improve the ability to address health challenges and work. That's good. We need labour, and we need it to facilitate that we can take good care of each other in civil society. There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the proposed amendments, with some nuances in the explanatory statement, which I believe will be explained by the various parties themselves. I would like to thank the Committee for its good implementation. The first amendment to which the government asks for membership concerns the desire to extend the personality of those entitled to social security benefits to more than one close, formal relative, as today's provision limits it. We know that someone who's in the final phase of life doesn't have close relatives or that for different reasons, like that. geographical distance or disease, cannot take on such care tasks. The proposal is therefore a good amendment to the provisions. The related person, irrespective of his/her formal role, shall be able to obtain those rights. It is important to have the consent of the person to receive the care in order to ensure that he/she is in agreement with this. The amendment to the provisions on the right to work clearance underlines that there must be an individual assessment of each person receiving work clearance. It specifies that cooperation between users and hubs should be such that the individual actually realises his/her working capacity based on his/her opportunities and assumptions. If you need treatment to realize your working capacity, you should get it. Today it is that some people do not get good enough customized arrangements. It is important that the Nav employees and the individual together find realistic arrangements when drawing up a plan of activities. The amendments shall harmonise various provisions relating to redundancy payments and are not an intensification of practice or the right to redundancy payments. The last change concerns more effective recovery of residues in Nav. Today, the limit of repayment is NOK 430, which is equal to NOK 50. of the legal fee. Reimbursement of payments of errors is an important part of the work against social security abuse, but efforts must be proportionate to the cost to the recipient and Nav costs. The Government's proposal to raise the limit to four times the legal fee is supported. In dollars, it's going to be 3,440. The change is formulated as an access to non-recovery. Collection shall always be made in case of intentional or gross negligence on the part of the recipient. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e936	In this proposition, the government has presented proposals for changes to the Law on Social Security and the Law on Working Conditions. People who care for a close relative in the final phase of life today have a right to up to 60 days of care and leave from work. The Court is currently limited to close relatives, i.e. spouses, cohabitants and other close family members. We consider it reasonable that people who do not have close family members should also have the same opportunity to be cared for at home in the final phase of life. That is why we are proposing to extend the right to care and leave at home in the final phase of life to related persons outside of family. This means that, in addition to family members, there are only persons with a close relationship with the sick person who will be entitled to care allowance. This could be done, for example, by: be close friends or good neighbours. The proposal thus equates patients with and without a close family and will lead to a more predictable and fair system of care and care in the final phase of life. Furthermore, in order to avoid incurably ill ports in a situation of home care by unwanted persons, it is proposed that the sick person should consent to care. However, the consent should be required only if the patient is able to give such consent. The Government is further proposing some clarifications in the Labour Clearance Money Code. The proposed changes aim at clarifying the coherence of and between the legislation on redundancy payments and labour-oriented measures. It does not imply, as the rapporteur had pointed out, any material changes. What we are proposing is to clarify that, as a general rule, it is a condition for entitlement to redundancy benefits that you either receive active treatment that could improve your ability to work, or take part in a job-oriented action. It is also proposed to clarify that the assistance provided to the beneficiary of the redundancy allowance shall aim at enabling the user to obtain or retain work that he or she can do. In addition, it is proposed to make the close link between the self-employment requirement and the requirement to draw up an activity plan. The Government also proposes to raise the amount limit in order to avoid recovery from Nav error payments. Today, this amount limit is set at half a legal fee – NOK 430. The government proposes that the limit now be raised to four times the legal fee, i.e. NOK 3,400. There are large recoveries, and the administrative costs of recovery are on average NOK 3000. It is therefore not very profitable to bring in amounts that are so low. The proposed legislative change will release what I think is important, namely the capacity to deal with matters with larger amounts faster and more efficiently, and it will provide more money. Furthermore, fewer things will go to oblivion. However, the amount limit shall be formulated as an option not to recover lower amounts, and I stress that recovery shall always take place if the recipient has acted intentionally or grossly negligently, regardless of whether the amount is lower or higher than the amount limit. The proposal shall apply mutatis mutandis to the mispayment by the Directorate for Health or by bodies under the Director-General for Health. I am pleased that a joint committee supports these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e951	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e957	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e979	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e989	Two proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's proposal No 1, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 2, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party The President noted that proposal No. Paragraph 39 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Storting should nevertheless refer the proposal to the vote on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox – It is considered recommended. The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to amend the foreign regulation so that the requirements for a residence permit in the family establishment are strengthened. In concrete terms, an age limit of 24 years is proposed for both parties to grant a residence permit on this basis. An associated requirement is also proposed, so that the parties’ relationship with Norway must be greater than with any other country. It is also proposed to increase the income limit for maintenance, so that the resident party must have a documented annual income of at least DKK. 275.500-- It is also proposed to include a prohibition on the marriage of siblings in the law.»
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e1019	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the left, which reads: «The government asks the Government to amend the foreign policy §§ 10-8 to 10-11, so that judgement is more open when the foreign authorities decide whether § 58 of the Foreign Affairs Act is complied with.» During the debate, the Christian People's Party drew attention to their support for the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e1070	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e1080	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e1290	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e1300	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-10-11.ana.ud366e1312	There is no record.
