ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e76	The representatives of Borghild Tenden, Ingarill Olsen, Gunnar Gundersen, Karin S. Woldseth, Stine Renate Håheim, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Trine Skei Grande, Tor Bremer, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten and Per Sandberg, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. Mr Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland, the so-called alternate of Mr More and Mr Romsdal County, has requested an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Jenny Klinge, from 19 March until further notice, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the More and Romesdal counties, Knut Sjømeling, are convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e133	Knut Seameling is present and will take the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative Freddy de Ruiter on parental leave from 19 March to 1 April from the Working Party on the sick leave of the representative Laila Gustavsen from 19 March until further notice from the Group of the Right on sick leave of the representative Ivar Kristiansen from 19 March until further notice from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen on leave from 19 March until 22 March to attend the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Qatar These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Buskerud County, Kjell Børre Hansen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Laila Gustavsen, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder counties: Line Vennesland 19-30. March For the Province of Buskerud: Nina Mjøberg 19 March and until further notice For the Nordic counties: Jonni Helge Solsvik 19 March and until further notice and Kari Storstrand 19-22. March
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e197	Line Vennesland, Nina Mjøberg, Jonni Helge Solsvik and Kari Storstrand are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e205	The representative Mr Øyvind Håbrek will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e208	On behalf of the representatives of Hans Olav Syversen, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Line Henriette Hemdal and myself, I would like to propose a representative to strengthen the corps movement in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e213	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e232	The Industry Committee has just returned from committee missions in Brazil. We ended the trip with two days as guests at Denofa, which is based on non-GMO – based on soya beans that are not genetically modified. We experienced outstanding focus and extensive control at all stages, from the soybeans harvested in Brazil to the finished flour product in Norway. In this way, consumers can be confident that the product is safe. No genetically modified organisms are currently authorised for food in Norway. The multinational companies Monsanto and Bayer CropScience have applied to sell two types of genetically modified maize and a type of rape. These are different from common maize and rapeseeds in that they are resistant to spraying. Bayer CropScience is behind a genetically modified maize variety that tolerates a spray that is so harmful that it is prohibited in Norway. The reason is that this spray can cause acute and chronic adverse effects on the brain, reproductive function and foetuses of mammals, including humans. The other maize and rapeseed, from Monsanto, are genetically modified, so they tolerate the company’s most selling spray. Norway has a restrictive policy in the field of GMOs. Therefore, the authorisation of GMO maize and GMO rape for food and feed will be something completely new in Norway, and it will break an important barrier ensuring Norwegian consumers GMO-free food. I would assume that the Foreign Minister and I do not have a very similar wardrobe, but there is at least one thing we have in common: our wardrobes contain both a T shirt with the inscription «I love the genetic engineering law», given by the Network for GMO-free food and feed to politicians with a clear aim of averting Norway from importing genetically modified food for the first time. That's good reason why we both love the genetic engineering law. Indeed, it is the person who obliges us to place significant emphasis on criteria other than health and the environment, namely ethics, sustainability and social benefits, in the assessment of whether GMOs are to be authorised in Norway. The Minister for the Environment, on written questions from the representative of Laila Davay and a number of other representatives, has replied that ‘the applications in question contain little information that illuminates our applications’, i.e.: The Ministry of the Environment, the «comprehensive assessment criteria» in these areas. The Minister for the Environment further points out that the Ministry of the Environment has requested further information from the applicants on ethical issues and the contribution of products to sustainable development and social benefits. The applicants have not provided information that illuminates the matter. I therefore take the liberty of using the deafening silence to illuminate these assessment criteria. The social benefit of the genetically modified maize is equal to zero. The modified characteristic of genetically modified maize has no use here in us, as the spray is prohibited. Increased use of harmful sprays is not a contribution to sustainable development. Nor is it ethically unproblematic to allow imports of products that are so harmful to produce that we do not allow production in Norway. The subject of biotechnology is almost unanimous – 15 votes against 1 – in that the three applications do not comply with the requirements of the genetic engineering law. Furthermore, there is widespread resistance to GMOs in Norway. Some 30 organisations, including all farmers’ organisations, a number of environmental and solidarity organisations and the Consumer Council, No to the EU and Coop Norway Trade have opposed the approval of these GMOs. The broad resistance contrasts with the stillness on the other side. No actors have said publicly that they want these GMOs. The government has received good input from the evaluation criteria of other bodies and should have sufficient knowledge to reject the GMOs in question. I'm glad the government of Soria Moria II wrote that the government will ‘remain firm on the exemption granted to us in the EEA Agreement that it is the Norwegian authorities that determine which genetically modified products may be postponed, placed on the market and sold in Norway. We must continue to adopt a restrictive position.' This was also followed up in the agricultural message, where it says: ‘focus on production methods that are considered safe and careful when new technologies are being used, including the continuation of a restrictive GMO policy’.» It also states that: ‘The Postponement Directive, which deals with legislation on the deliberate release of live GMOs, is incorporated into the EEA Agreement with adaptations that allow Norway to take into account sustainability, ethics and societal benefits in the event of national authorisation of GMOs.’; Is the government following up its own political platform if it becomes the first government to approve genetically modified food? That's the question. Genetically modified organisms are controversial worldwide, and a number of countries have adopted a temporary or permanent ban on certain genetically modified products. In Hungary, for example: the country’s new constitution has introduced a separate provision that everyone has the right to healthy food free of GMOs. The 2005 moratorium on genetically modified plants and animals in Switzerland was extended for a further three years in 2010. Germany and France have prohibited the cultivation of GMOs. India introduced the moratorium on genetically modified aubergines in 2010. Therefore, a no would not make Norway a different country, but rather be in line with what many other authorities decide. The question then becomes what space of action we have, what space of action we want, and how we intend to use it. In the WTO context, the scope of action is essentially regulated by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, and the provision of Article XI:1 prohibiting the establishment of import restrictions. As the provisions do not apply to agricultural and fishery products, a Norwegian import restriction on GMO rape and GMO maize would not be contrary to the WTO Agreement. However, it is a condition that the production by the importing countries of the product for which import restrictions are established — in this case GMO maize and GMO rape — is relatively insignificant. As Norway does not produce GMO maize or GMO rape, this city is not faced with any problem. It is not a general ban on GMOs Norway will introduce, only against three varieties of GMOs. Would the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that in this case, the WTO agreement gives Norway full freedom to comply with the acceptance criteria of the genetic technology law? The authorisation of GMO maize for food and feed will be something completely new in Norway, and it will break an important barrier and make it difficult for agriculture to remain GMO-free, as desired by an overall diet and by consumers. I would therefore like to end by repeating the question in the interpellation text: What measures will the Foreign Minister take to maintain Norway’s restrictive GMO policy in the international trade regime? I look forward to the Foreign Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e279	Let me first clarify a manifest misunderstanding: I think there are few similarities between the wardrobes of the interpellant and the foreign minister, but the one similarity she pointed out has now been brought to my mind with regard to the Minister of Development. He has the common feature. I don't have that credit yet, but it might be corrected. Since the adoption of the Genetic Technologies Act in 1993, in line with Stortinget’s wishes, Norway has pursued restrictive policies on the release, placing on the market and sale of genetically modified organisms, GMOs. This is a policy that is probably among the most stringent in the world, and the government has no plans to change this policy – let me make it clear. The normal procedure for the approval of new products in the EEA is that once a product is authorised in one part of the EEA territory, it is also authorised for use in the rest of the EEA territory. This does not apply directly to GMOs. The EU Postponement Directive, which is part of the EEA Agreement, regulates the placing on the market and release of live GMOs, including cultivation. Applications for authorisation of a GMO will be subject to a scientific risk assessment by the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA. If the placing on the market of the organism is authorised, it could in principle be purchased and sold in all countries within the EEA territory. However, each country has the opportunity to use the Directive’s safeguard clause and reserve itself against such placing on the market if they consider that the product presents a risk to health or the environment. It has been – and is – important for the government to ensure the basis of our restrictive GMO policy. That is why we put in place an adaptation text when the Postponement Directive was incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This means that we can make our own Norwegian assessment under the genetic engineering law in addition to the assessment carried out in the EEA, and the law requires us to assess ethics, social benefits and sustainable development, as well as health and environmental risks. The Postponement Directive, which concerns the placing on the market and release of live GMOs, has been part of the EEA Agreement since the implementation of the EEA Agreement. In addition to the inclusion of another legal act, the Regulation on genetically modified food and feed is now being worked on. This Regulation regulates the authorisation of food and feed consisting of, containing or produced from genetically modified organisms. We have not yet completed negotiations with the European Union on the inclusion of this regulation. On the Norwegian side, we have come to the conclusion that the content of the regulation is essentially in line with the current Norwegian legislation. But – and I would stress this – our fundamental starting point is that decisions taken by the EU bodies in these cases should not have a direct effect in Norway. We have therefore proposed that the regulation be adapted in line with the framework set by the Constitution. In the negotiations with the European Union, we have therefore presented proposals for adaptation text based on the adaptation we have received to the Postponement Directive. However, it is clear that strict scientific justification requirements will be imposed for Norwegian prohibitions. However, access to ethics, sustainability and societal benefits – in line with the genetic engineering law – will provide a broader basis for the prohibition of reproductive or germinal GMOs. It is a fact that Norwegian opinion is very skeptical about the use of GMOs in Norway. The restrictive practices of the government well harmonize with this position. Let me repeat that the government will continue the following established practices, which we also believe have broad support in the Storting: deliberate release or other use of GMOs is prohibited in Norway if, following careful, independent Norwegian assessments, it is concluded that there is a risk of environmental and health adverse effects. Consideration shall be given to whether outsourcing or other uses are ethically sound and substantial emphasis shall be placed on whether the outsourcing has social benefits and is suitable for promoting sustainable development. The Government will continue this practice even if the GMOs should be allowed in the EEA territory otherwise. The government currently has several applications for the authorisation of GMOs under consideration. The representative Andersen Eide refers to applications for authorisation of two maize lines and a rapeseed line. Let me stress that these are applications for the release, cultivation and use of GMOs for feed, and not applications for authorisation for use in food, human food. No final decision has been taken in these cases, prepared by the Ministry of the Environment under the Genetics Act. The representative raises questions about what measures I would like to take to maintain Norway’s restrictive GMO policy in the international trade regime, and that issue was repeated in the inter-pellant’s speeches. As responsible for Norway's compliance with its international obligations, inter alia: in the field of trade, I consider it very important that the measures taken by Norway comply with our obligations – including both the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement. The WTO Agreement provides for the possibility to prohibit GMOs in Norway presenting health and/or environmental risks. Provision is also made for the use of the precautionary principle and for the imposition of provisional measures. It is up to the Member States — in this case Norway — to decide for themselves what level of protection or risk we want to put on. We require that we be consistent, non-discriminatory in implementation, and that the decision is based on scientific evidence. Following the government's assessment, a restrictive GMO policy can be pursued side by side with our international trade obligations. However, in cases where, after careful scientific evaluations, it is concluded that there is no risk to health or the environment in Norway for the release or use of a GMO, a potential prohibition of cities of challenges in relation to WTO legislation may apply. We can then get into the situation that we will be able to lose a case for any panel in the WTO. In such cases, the only possible basis will be Article XX of the GATT Agreement. [[Cou]] We recognize that we are facing a dilemma in these matters. On the one hand, we in Norway have a strong need to protect the environment and nature against genetically modified organisms, even where it is not necessarily easy to demonstrate that there are identifiable risks of harm to health or the environment. That is why we have a very strict genetic engineering law and a restrictive practice in line with this. At the same time, we are facing international obligations that limit what is allowed by trade restrictions. However, Norway is, as an open and strongly export-dependent country, dependent on trade law being followed by WTO members, and it is in the Norwegian interest to have a predictable and objective framework for trade and economic activity. In such cases, we therefore need to make an overall assessment of Norwegian interests. Finally, I want to repeat what I said when I started my answer: Norway has a policy on the release, marketing and sale of genetically modified organisms that is one of the most stringent in the world. The government will do its utmost to pursue this policy, including within the international trade regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e317	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer we have received. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the law on genetic engineering has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. At the same time, an adaptation text related to the EEA Regulation on food and feed is now being negotiated in Brussels. When a GMO is processed, it will be authorised under the Food Act in Norway, which is administered by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Food Authority. What is considered particularly positive in the food law is that the feed regulation prohibits all GMOs containing intact antibiotic resistance genes. The EU does not have such a ban. On the other hand, antibiotic resistance DNA has been classified at different hazard levels. Therefore, in the harmonisation process, there is a danger that Norway’s general ban on GMOs containing intact antibiotic resistance genes will not be continued. The Norwegian Food Code currently prohibits the manufacture, import and manufacture of feed containing genes as codes for antibiotic resistance, where these genes have been introduced by genetic modification and can be detected in the final product. In the past, the size has also provided clear guidance to the government on the work of international bans in this area. As I read it, international trade obligations give national scope for action to refuse cultivation and imports of GMOs. The Law on Genetic Technologies is incorporated into the EEA Agreement, so that Norway is free to decide which genetically modified product can be postponed, marketed and sold here to countries. The World Trade Organisation, the WTO, also allows countries to take into account the environment and ethics of import restrictions. This means that the treatment of the maize and oilseed rape in question is on political road choices. Would the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that a restrictive GMO policy involves keeping Norwegian food GMO-free? What will the Minister for Foreign Affairs do to maintain the prohibition in the Norwegian feed regulation by incorporating the EU regulation on food and feed in Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e326	Just a little on the formal one: it is not that the genetic engineering law has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, it is considered to be in line with the provisions of the EEA Agreement. But that is now a detail because we assume that Norwegian law is, according to our international obligations, whether it be the EEA or the WTO. I can actually answer the question very easily because I think the government has exactly the same attitude as the broad majority, which is – according to our estimate – one of the most restrictive in the world. We believe that we have a good basis for this both in national law and today in what is also the case in international law. But it is a matter of careful monitoring, because it is in our interest that the legislation we have implemented in these areas can be defended in the international bodies in which we participate, and under the international agreements we are obliged to. Then, as far as advice is concerned, we need to build on scientific evidence related to the content of individual GMOs. Then – as I emphasized in my article – we can also have a challenge in arguing for this in relation to public ethics and morality. I chose to be open to it in my post, that in relation to some of these specific issues, we can have bigger challenges than in others, among others. in relation to WTO legislation. As far as the EU is concerned, we know that there are differences of opinion, and there are quite strong differences between countries based on the agricultural and industrial conditions and the opinions expressed. But I will choose to believe that very far on the way, there will be enough people who share the Norwegian basic view on this issue, so that we can also work with them and try to make it part of our active European policy in terms of the EU's own work form. In summary, we intend to maintain a very strict regime, perhaps among the strictest in the world. We want to do this by following the processes that are in the immediate vicinity of us, namely the EEA, making sure that our positions are well defended within the WTO, and then being in front of what may be the development of new legislation, which in some cases is quite technical, but where having a rather formulated basic position, which we have in this area, is a good compromise for Norwegian positions in these discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e337	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for putting this topic on the agenda. There is no doubt that genetic modification is both a difficult and a controversial theme, and it is a theme that raises some fundamental questions. I think the Foreign Minister's statement here was both thorough and complementary and shows that the government is handling this in a reassuring way. Among the matters currently under consideration in this country is whether or not to authorise the importation of genetically modified maize. It is a product approved by the Directorate for Nature Management in 2008 in Norway for processing, food and feed. This means that the maize lines are authorised for use as any other maize, except for cultivation. These genetically modified lines have been introduced with genes that make them anti-spray tolerant. I have noticed that there are many who stand on the barricades against the introduction of genetically modified maize here in the country. I myself have had a meeting with the Network for GMO-free food and feed, which consists of 16 organisations, among others. The peasants and the Nature Conservation Association. I see that the opponents have great support in parts of the population. In this country, we have a practice in which genetically modified organisms are carefully assessed for risk before they may be approved for import or cultivation. It is the Scientific Committee on Food Safety that does so on behalf of the Food Safety Authority and the DN, and then to make a final recommendation to the departments. Norwegian decisions are to be taken in accordance with the genetic engineering law, which allows us to place significant emphasis on criteria other than health and the environment, namely ethics, sustainability and social benefits. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that any Norwegian ban on genetically modified maize was carefully assessed against international commitments and agreements. The WTO Agreement requires any anti-trade measures to be based on a scientific assessment of health and environmental risks. I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs states that, in the government's opinion, restrictive GMO policies can be pursued side by side with our international trade obligations. It is important for a small country like Norway with an open economy. I must admit that I personally am highly skeptical of GMOs. On the part of the Labour Party, we have adopted a restrictive approach to genetically modified food, and it is a policy that is being pursued. But I don't agree with the Christian People's Party if they think it's urgent to make a decision in this specific case with corn. I think it's important that we take the time we need to make a decision in this field. I join in the positive description Andersen Eide also has to visit the nutrition committee in Brazil last week, where we were given a detailed description of the situation in order to get Norway access to GMO-free products. It's obvious, as I see it, that all the major food producing countries in the world are now largely going to produce genetically modified products. The potential of Norway to avoid genetically modified products in the future will therefore be challenged. Brazil is one of the countries with the largest exports of agricultural products, but only 20 pst. is GMO-free. Compared to that country's total output, 20 psts are. Of course, huge volumes, but still, this share is our opportunity, and we have to work actively with it. Whether or not to allow GMOs is possibly not a dilemma to be determined once and for all by a single decision, but that sound decisions are taken on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the professional advice given – that risks to the environment and health must be assessed against a possible usefulness in each case after a thorough review, as is currently done. I think there may be a need for more research in this area. It is a cross of thought that it is now referred to that agriculture across the globe has challenges, and one billion of the world's people are starving. It's perhaps one of the greatest ethical dilemmas in the world. We have to take this debate, so this interpellation is important. We all agree that we want sustainable food production to ensure safe food for Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e360	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue, one that has not been so topical to most people in Norway. In terms of GMO competence among consumers, I personally believe it is also important to try to do prevention work at school, explain what GMOs are, and how they work. I think if you ask people most, people in high school, about this, they haven't heard what GMOs are. Here we have one important thing. I do not agree with the Christian People's Party that it is urgent, as Haugen also said. In fact, I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs answered very well, among other things. the clarification he made with regard to the WTO negotiations. That's what's going on all the way, that what we're doing has to be professional and knowledgeable. There I want to ask that you maybe put in opportunities to research more to get better at this. To use it against the WTO, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, it is important to be able to document this with research reports. If you go to the EU GMO report, it says that no harmful effects of genetically modified organisms, GMOs, have been detected. It is also known that at present there is no scientific evidence that associates GMOs with a higher risk to the environment or food and feed safety than to common plants and organisms. It also says something about it. The EU report also states that GMOs are an important tool in the fight against global poverty and food security in the world. If we do not take this into Norway, we must also consider that GMOs can be an opportunity to increase food production. There I believe Norway can go ahead and be a prime engine and research and see if this is harmful or not. It must not be a religious belief that this is wrong, because it can also be good to get more food production and make it work. I also think it is important that if you want to get rid of this by starting with animal feed, which the minister was in, you might be able to open up animal feed, but not for human food. It is important to have information and knowledge and to be able to defend this professionally. Because we just have to assume that we are part of Europe, and we will also be able to adapt to what Europe is doing. If we find out that we're going to let this get into the Norwegian market, I think it's very important that we get labelling. We have received criticism in Norway that we have poor labelling, for example: in the case of chicken. And just look at the addition of water – how much water is added? What does the food we buy contain? The EU has come further than us. The important thing is that you have traceability and labelling, and that the consumer always knows what he or she gets. So I support what the Foreign Minister says, and what has been achieved with negotiations, that we are going for knowledge. If we get research that suggests that this is not dangerous, we should be able to go into it professionally and assess whether it can be an opportunity to get this into Norway as well. For the time being, I think that, to the extent that the Minister for Foreign Affairs responded well to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e375	The representative shall have a great deal of praise for perhaps one of the greatest dilemmas facing the production of food, namely the use of GMOs. I think the debate so far has shown what important dilemmas we face here in terms of health, the environment, ethics, social benefits and sustainability. I believe that the Norwegian population and consumers, as it has also been pointed out here, are very concerned about this. Knowledge may be lacking, but it is often the case with consumers that knowledge is initially lacking. That's exactly why I think it's important to spend time in this area. We have restrictive legislation, where we have opportunities to influence ourselves within the agreements we have with other countries. However, there is no doubt whether it is important to keep order and manage in a proper way the trade relations we have in both the EU and the EEA as well as in the WTO. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about the consequences that might arise, for example. whether our own decisions would not be approved by the WTO, if they were to come into what he calls a panel, and where one uses the term 'public morality', one should ask: what is public morality in this context? I think that public morality can be about a world that lacks food very quickly, and as the government in its own farm report has stressed strongly lack of food, and that we must take our responsibility – that there is a need for larger crops, that more profitable agriculture is needed, not only in Norway, but worldwide, and that, of course, there is a need for greater resistance to plant diseases, so that more people can be fed, and the same is true, for example. to recover lost land. It's an ethical dilemma and a question of public morality. Nor should one ignore the fact that in the future Norway could also be in such a situation that the development of genetic engineering might help Norwegian agriculture. But I think it's about making haste very slowly in this context. Because we need to know what we're doing, and even though the decisions in these individual cases have taken a long time, I won't throw myself at this wagon to criticize this, at least not assuming that I know that there's a job done to find out what's in it, and what can come in the future. I think we – at least for the Right – are left with the fact that yes, we have a dilemma in terms of our international commitments. We have to take care of them. Then we have an action room that we're going to use for the benefit of the Norwegian population, for the sake of the food security that we're concerned about. And then we have, like all over the ethical commitment, public morality, which is that the world in the long run might change in a direction that means that we also need to look at whether new methods can be safe, must be tested gradually, and whether they can be sustainable for us too.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e388	First, I would like to thank the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide for addressing an important and very serious matter – manipulating with the genes of living organisms can have great consequences for life on earth. Today, we have little understanding of the long-term consequences of what is now happening. Norway has been a transitory country in the process of ensuring environmentally sustainable development, all from Gro Harlem Brundtland led the international Commission which focused on sustainable development. It is therefore important that we continue the restrictive line when it concerns GMOs, which Norway has so far led. When we know so little about the long-term consequences, we have to have very good reasons to accept genetically modified organisms, and we have to be absolutely sure that what we do is resilient and ethically defensive. Nature is complicated, and it often takes a long time to see the consequences of what we do. The large international seed producers are pushing forward the development of GMOs, for example: to gain control of the world’s grain production. They are particularly keen to develop cereals tolerating toxic sprays. One of the cereals that one introduced into Norway has been modified to tolerate a spray that is so toxic that it is not allowed in this country. It can hardly be said that there are strong arguments for approving that type of product in Norway, when we cannot accept consequences of the use of that product. GMOs modified to tolerate less toxic sprays also have significant long-term adverse effects. The Industry Committee was recently established in Brazil. There we saw the industrial production of soya and maize. There, we learned that the use of what is considered to be low-toxic spraying also has long-term effects that cause soil damage in the long term. This has led to a number of manufacturers, including In the United States, genetically modified seeds and maize have gone away to avoid using so much spray, even if it is an approved spray. So there we see that the long-term effects of something that is perceived as innocent are actually such that the producers themselves go away from genetically modified seeds. Here's one of many examples that we don't know enough about the consequences when we put it into practice. Under Norwegian law, each GMO is to be assessed with regard to the environment and health. In addition, emphasis is placed on the need to assess ethical, productive and social benefits as an independent assessment criterion. The subject of biotechnology, as it has been said before today, believes that the three products that are currently being assessed do not comply with Norwegian legislation. No GMO so far approved for use in Norway. It is a practice to be continued in the Soria-Moria Declaration. There is no need to change that practice. Some have expressed concern that we might be in conflict with the WTO in relation to the restrictions we have imposed on GMOs. It is then important to be aware that, in addition to the environment and health, which are objective assessments to some extent and which can be made on a scientific basis, we also have the possibility of focusing on ethics and bearing power. It is an emphasis that is important to include in the further assessments. Then it is interesting to note that the company does not care about informing about ethics and carrying capacity when they are asked about it. It is also important to note that there are very many other countries that have a strict practice in relation to GMOs, among others. several countries have moratorium. So the fact that there are several other countries that have strict legislation, among other things. moratorium, should suggest that there should be no danger of conflict with the WTO by continuing the practices that we have carried out so far and which are anchored in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e403	The centre party shares the resistance to the release, import and translation of genetically modified organisms. I am pleased that this interpellation provides the opportunity to put matters on the agenda. One of the most important things for us is that we can pass this earth on to our successors in at least as good a condition as we took over it. For that administrator, we need to use all the knowledge we have. We have to get new knowledge and perhaps most importantly, when we don't have enough knowledge, we have to be careful, we have to be careful. One of the biggest challenges facing the world, not only now, but also in the future, is the food crisis. Already now it is such that a billion people go to bed swimming to bed every day. By 2050, after the calculations, we're going to be more than nine billion people on this Earth. Everyone has the right and the right to sufficient, safe and nutritious food. Math security is one of the most fundamental things in a society — including in Norway today. Today we pass five million inhabitants in our country. By 2030, we could be one million more inhabitants. These should have milk for breakfast, sandwiches, dinners, etc. In the view of the Centre Party, non-genetically modified foods are the best solution to these challenges. The dangers of the release of genetically modified organisms in nature are great, and our knowledge of whether it is still small. We don't know enough about what effects GMOs will have on nature or people's health. The importance of negative effects on health and the environment also imposes stringent requirements on these organisms in laboratory operations. Then there is no requirement for people, whether national or international, to liberalize this law. Some major international companies are pushing for liberalisation, while the masses of consumer organisations, agricultural organisations, environmental organisations are strongly opposed. Norwegian consumers are also opposed to this. The representative, Tjældal, pointed out that there were not many on the way forward who knew what GMOs were. Well, I think that's wrong. I think it might be where one wants to learn the most about what GMOs are, but it's anyway important also to give more information and have more knowledge in this field. I agree with that. Fortunately, few genetically modified materials are found on the Norwegian market, but on the world market GMOs-free raw materials are increasingly difficult to find. For this reason, it is important for the Central Party that governments influence developments in EU legislation, with a view to least possible incorporation of GMOs into traditional GMO-free inputs. Among other things, there is a zero limit in the case of seed incorporation. It is the case today that no GMO crops are approved for cultivation in Norway, and for Norway it is therefore important to label GMOs on the international market. We have, as the Foreign Minister did well, a restrictive law and a restrictive attitude to these products. What we mean in the Center Party is important that we stick to it. There are the Soria Moria statements clearly. On the part of the Central Party, we want the government to pursue an active and clear policy on the rejection of GMOs – not only in the work of the EEA Agreement, but also in forums such as the WTO and the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e422	Developing new technologies gives us some great opportunities, but it also gives us some challenges. It should therefore be a fundamental principle for us that it is ethics that should govern the technique and not the other way around. In this field that we are discussing today, we still know little about the adverse effects of GMOs. In the evaluation of health risks, there is a large gap between researchers. Some independent research indicates that there is a difference between GMOs and non-GMOs. For example, Gro Ingunn Hemre, of the National Institute of Nutrition and Marine Food Research, says that the feeding tests they have performed show that maize genetically modified to produce insecticides can have a negative impact on fish growth and immune defence, but that more research is needed before a conclusion can be made. Professor Per Brandtzäg at the Rikshospitalet says the following: ‘We know that in the last 10 years, the incidence of allergy has increased sharply in the United States and Australia, while the population is eating increasingly genetically modified maize and soya products. I think it's likely that there's a connection here, but of course it has to be scientifically proven." It is precisely this uncertainty that is one of the main causes of the broad consensus in the Storting that there should be a precautionary attitude towards genetically modified products, and one of the reasons why the government has an explicit objective, including: through the Soria Moria Declaration that restrictive policies should be pursued in this area. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has so clearly underlined today that it should also be the way forward. In addition to the major uncertainties about the health-related impact of GMOs on the Norwegian population, the solidarity of countries where GMOs are grown that are resistant to strong sprays must also be taken into account. The representative, Andersen Eide, explained some of the health consequences of the sprays used. The population of these agricultural areas is exposed to herbicide aerial spraying and health damage has been found in the local population related to needle and syringe use. These GMOs are just resistant to injecting drugs banned in Norway, given their health-related adverse effects. Can we then tolerate the fact that Norway, through its imports, gives legitimacy to the use of sprays that harm the local population, people and animals in the countries from which we import? Should a non-toxic everyday life be reserved only for us? When State Councillor Lars Peder Breck had his listening meeting at South Africa on the agricultural notification, one of the strongest contributions from a young girl who challenged agriculture to stand much more on the barricades against genetically modified food, but also made a clear recommendation to the government. I think she expressed the wish that I also wish for myself. I want to make sure that the food I eat is safe. I also want the food I eat to be ethically sound. That is why I and the Christian People's Party believe that we need to take seriously the uncertainty associated with GMOs and make use of the possibilities we have under the genetic engineering law and the international agreements to reserve ourselves against GMOs.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e443	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising such an important issue. The left has asked the government, not later than a few months ago, about the progress of these matters because it has great perspectives over it, sail if there is nothing that we are going to think about every day. Therefore, it is important to get knowledge, it is important to widen knowledge, and it is important that we also develop labelling schemes that enable us, as consumers, to act in this market, both with knowledge and with a labelling system that enables us to choose from these indicators as well. It seems that there is a broad consensus about keeping the precautionary principle high, because it may have a large reach. Today we have talked about organisms that are resistant to different sprays, but it is also such that it can also lead to major effects on the organisms that live around. We can develop weeds that have the same resilience as the product that has been developed with GMOs. Resistance and GMO changes may also occur in insects, which may affect the yield and may pass to related organisms. If you get a genetically modified maize, you can get other maize varieties that can get the same changes. This can lead to increased imbalances in nature. Sense if some have also been developed to increase production on smaller areas — which have good intentions — it can lead to other non-intentional purposes. That's why it's important to get knowledge of this. It's important to research it. It is important to have labelling schemes, so that we as consumers can choose. It is also important to keep the precautionary principle throughout the process. The left is probably among the most restrictive in this field, but it is important to have knowledge before we draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e452	I would like to thank all those who have spoken in this important debate and for the answers that have come from Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre. As we can see here, we all agree that the goal of Norwegian agriculture, among other things. is sustainable food production. Fortunately, we agree on most of it, that it is the precautionary principle that applies in terms of GMOs. But I would say that I feel a little more impatient than most people in terms of making a decision. I believe that if health, environment, social benefits, sustainability and ethics are important assessment criteria, the great uncertainty associated with GMOs about precisely these criteria would make it irrelevant to approve these GMOs – we are talking about three pieces. This must make it possible to conclude, and I hear, as I said, that the other parties are not as impatient as I am. I believe that we need to have knowledge, of course – we need to think about what we mean, knowledge and facts. In that way, it's not urgent to make a decision, but the fact that a decision should be so simple on the basis of these criteria, makes it incredible that it's taken so long. So my challenge and my appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that there should be a move here, because this is an important matter. Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e466	Let me thank the interpellant for asking a question that is important, topical and good, and also thank you for a good debate. I believe that what we have heard in the Chamber today shows that we are completely united on the main issue of restrictive policy in Norway today leads: the importance of having a restrictive line, the precautionary attitude and the importance of knowledge. Knowledge I think is important in two areas. As we've been faced with, it's important that we have good knowledge to make decisions in an area that is in the process of technological development, on which I believe there is a broad consensus. It is also important in the field that is perhaps most important for my field of expertise, namely the way in which we can defend our interests in international organisations against international legislation. It's knowledge that must underlie the way we argue for our affairs. I think we have been made clear that, on the one hand, there is legislation that applies as to whether it can harm the environment, nature, human beings. Then there's the second, the slightly wider field, that goes on ethics and morality. But in both areas it is important to have a well-thought-out policy. The representative Skei Grande said that the left had the strictest line. It's not easy to say who's the strictest here now, because I can see that everyone has basically agreed on one string line, and as the interpellant said, the discussion might go a little bit on the tactic as to whether this is urgent. I note that today we are maintaining a robust regulatory framework and robust practice. That is what we want. Then there's an assessment of what's urgent about that. At least we've been committed by the government to taking the time we need to make good decisions. Finally, I just want to say that the representative Fleet was in the middle of a point that I think we should also bring with us, because this is a debate that is easily becoming a global debate. Of course, there is the situation that hunger is a phenomenon in the world, and there are going to be discussions about how to produce more food with less energy and on a more vulnerable agricultural area around the world. There is nothing directly affecting Norwegian conditions in the short term, but we are part of the international context and must also be involved in that debate. But I think it is an important contribution to the debate that we have strict legislation and that it is a law that can be presented and argued for in international contexts. Thank you for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e479	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e493	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e502	The matter we're dealing with today, Innst. 181 L, based on the case of the government, the bill Prop. 50 L, is a proposal that makes some cleanups in the existing legislation. There has been a long time out of consultation, and there has been a good round of treatment, which has led to the cleanup of the existing legislation plus a few important policy changes that will make life better for a good number of people. Many people who come to Norway have problems demonstrating their identity in a sufficiently good way. I myself was involved in dealing with the Foreign Affairs Act here in Stortinget a few years ago, when we introduced and in many ways raised the threshold for what it was going to do to get citizenship. That time we raised the threshold of clear identity. It wasn't supposed to be enough to have had the identity you had in your residence permit; you should have more stringent identity requirements than that. At that time, I must admit that we saw for ourselves that this would lead to that only a few people would not have their identity clarified and had their identity based on the granting of citizenship. But that didn't happen. It became quite a significant number of people who had problems that they did not have a sufficiently well-defined identity. What we have done on the part of the government – which I am very pleased about, and which I would like to praise the Council of State and the government for having done – is to make arrangements to ensure that people who come to Norway, who intend to stay in Norway and who are Norwegian for all practical reasons, will also have the opportunity to have Norwegian citizenship. This is a strength both for the individual and for the society of Norway, because we have good things to do with people on the basis that they actually have full rights, full opportunities, to act in Norway as a citizen. Let me do one example. If you are young and your parents have not clarified your identity, you will not get Norwegian citizenship yourself, and you have less opportunity to be with classmates, sports teams and others on school trips abroad – even if you are Norwegian, you feel Norwegian yourself and you are Norwegian for all practical purposes. It is similar for enterprises that have employed workers, which have full rights to work and work in Norway. However, when participating in the whole EU and EEA territory, these enterprises experience that it is difficult to bring the workers abroad, simply because they do not have Norwegian citizenship. The background to the failure to clarify this citizenship, which has created a nearest Catch 22 situation, is that Norway and the Norwegian authorities have a low degree of notoriety with the documents issued. This applies to a number of countries. The Committee visited the national ID centre and was given an introduction to a good part of the issues surrounding this issue. We all agree that people who are going to live in Norway are interested in knowing who is. However, it must be possible for people to clarify their identity, even though at some point there has been a confusion about it – often a confusion caused by the fact that they have at some point been in a refugee situation and stated the wrong identity themselves, and experience that it is difficult to clarify this at a later stage. We're going to take care of the kids. We're going to make sure that the kids get the opportunity to get an identity. We've been in it – what to say – a bit of a bureaucratic situation that, although Mother's identity has been clarified, Father's identity has not been clarified, the identity of the children has been considered unexplained. It's a situation that most people think is directly unreasonable, that it's going to hit a lot of kids. This is now clearing up the government for the kids. What the government has also announced, is that we are going to do the same thing we did when it came to the Iraqi-Kurdish groups, the so-called MUFs. We got a clarification of the identity of some of those people, for whom there was a requirement to get granted residence. You can review this and try to put in place a similar procedure, so that several of the people who are adults and who do not come under the system of children will also have the opportunity to clarify their identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e521	Calculations from the Statistical Central Bureau, based on fresh population figures, show that we really should have a real mark here today. Monday, March 19, 2012 is the day that the SSB has estimated that we will round 5 million inhabitants in Norway. Unfortunately, we're never going to get to know the population no. 5 million, because the SSB doesn't have data to tell us who this person might be. It could be one of the children born today, or it could be an immigrant coming to Norway right now. What's certain, anyway, is that we would have to wait even longer for the magic number 5 million if we hadn't had immigration to Norway. Today, there are about 600 900 people living in Norway, who have either migrated themselves, about 200 000. 500,000, or born in Norway with immigrant parents, about It's 100,000. In total, these groups constitute 12,2 pst. by the population, and something less than 40 pst. of which Norwegian citizenship. In the last few years, there have been some improvements. 12,000 new immigrants per year are elected to become Norwegian citizens, with this entailing both rights and obligations. Even I've had the pleasure of being present at several national ceremonies in my own state. It's pretty nice to see The Drama Theatre filled up by people who, in addition to getting the proof that they're Norwegian citizens, also want to mark it by a ceremony of solemnity and subsequent Helicopteran company with cuts and soft cake. However, this matter is not about a party, but perhaps the forerunner of such a party. As the rapporteur has explained, we are talking about various changes to the Civil Code, such as: The aim is to make citizenship legislation simpler and clearer, making it easier to deal with, for some of the proposals also more equitable, for example: as regards the provision on withdrawal periods, but perhaps most importantly the changes which make it possible for several persons born in Norway or who have come to Norway at an early age to become Norwegian nationals. As an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, says: ‘To ensure that children who belong in Norway have Norwegian citizenship is important both for the children and for the society in which they live.’ The government says in the proposition that it wants to ‘that persons residing permanently in Norway become Norwegian nationals, participate in Norwegian society, belong to Norway and exercise rights and duties vis-à-vis the Norwegian State’. Most people here at Stortinget fully agree with that. At the same time, we know that citizenship itself is not enough to achieve good integration, but we are going to have many opportunities to debate later, including later. when the integration message is provided. Today, there are parts of the national law in question, and the government’s proposals will be adopted by an overwhelming majority — and that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e540	There should be no human right to have Norwegian citizenship, but something to qualify for by mastering the Norwegian language, accepting Norwegian culture, Norwegian traditions and respecting Norwegian laws. The Progress Party believes that the granting of Norwegian citizenship has been too deplorable. We have Norwegian citizens who do not speak Norwegian and have little or no willingness to adapt to Norwegian society. If it is so attractive to become a Norwegian citizen, it is not unreasonable to demand that anyone who wants to be a Norwegian citizen has to put forth some effort to become a Norwegian citizen. For many years, the Progress Party has been calling for strict requirements for those who want to become Norwegian nationals. One shall not only undergo training in Norwegian, but one shall take the examination to demonstrate that one can Norwegian. The same applies to knowledge of Norwegian society, in fields such as: democracy, the principles of the rule of law, gender equality and Norwegian cultural and religious traditions. The Progress Party will actually vote in favour of the proposal of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. We believe that some of the proposals are a step in the right direction, and we would particularly stress that citizenship must never be granted to anyone we do not know for sure who is, and that it should be an indispensable rule that crime discriminates against Norwegian citizenship. As I said, the Progress Party is in favour of some of the proposals that have been put forward. We think it's a step in the right direction. The Progress Party will, of course, also make proposals for some amendments to its own Document 8 proposals of what we are not so pleased with. But the clarifications provided by the ministry are quite satisfactory to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e553	The proposition begins by pointing to citizenship as a formalisation of a social contract, namely the contract between the State and its citizens. It is possible to put a little bit in these hopes that each individual by becoming a citizen automatically adheres to the fundamental values of democracy and freedom of expression and other fundamental elements of the political community on which society is founded. That's hope! The possibility that this is actually the case increases by making demands and thresholds for becoming a citizen of Norway. For the Right, citizenship is not one of several en route measures in integration but a recognition that integration has taken place reasonably. So more about the individual changes in the citizenship law. It is proposed that Section 7 of the Civil Code replaces the wording that the identity must be ‘documented or otherwise clarified’ with the identity must be ‘explained’. So you're suggesting that the requirement now becomes that you've clarified your identity. The Ministry considers that such an identity requirement has been formulated today, it may give the impression that it is sufficient for identity documents to be provided in order to fulfil the conditions of identity. But that's not the case. When submitting identity documents, the authorities will always have to assess whether the documents are kept and decide whether, in conjunction with other information in the case, they satisfactorily clarify the identity of the applicant. So there'll always have to be such an assessment of evidence. In our opinion, this amendment of the law is unnecessary. It does not aim to change the current law, but is said to make the law more educational. The clarity shall be achieved by reading the national regulation in conjunction with the new wording of Section 7 of the Civil Code. It is also the case that you intend to mention the requirement of proof in the regulation and not in the law. A regulation can be changed more easily than the law itself and can therefore change. If one argues by emphasising maximum predictability, the requirement for proof should be written into the law. From the point of view of a legislator, which I believe the Storting should allow when it gives laws, I am stunned by the legal and regulatory techniques used in this law, and in a number of other cases also presented to the Stortinget. In a number of cases, the Ministry chooses to propose vague terms in the law of the State that the Stortinget adopts, while the realities are reflected in the regulations. This means, from a constitutional point of view, moving essential parts of the rule production from the Storting to the government. Of course, there is a need for extensive use of delegation of power in a modern society. But for reasons of both democracy and legal certainty, there is great reason to show more restraint in the use of regulatory homes. A starting point must be that all questions of such a nature that the Storting should take a decision on them should be governed by formal law and not be left to regulation. I would also like to point out the need for citizens' legal certainty. The more in-depth the action is taken, the greater the reason why the Storting has taken an explicit position on the specific measure. In order to illustrate this point, I would like to point out whether the issue of the requirement of proof in the assessment of identity has been clarified. There has been an inequality in UDI's and UNE's practice. The UDI has provided a valid probability overweight, while the UNE has required a qualified probability overweight. The right supports the requirement of qualified probability overweight, but believes it should have been written directly into the law. Similarly, it seems unnecessary to provide for an obligation to provide information as long as the requirements for the declaration of identity are laid down as conditions for obtaining citizenship. The provision is and will be without self-interest. Some may argue that the breach of disclosure can be a basis for criminal sanctions against incorrect information, as well as, of course, non-citizenship. But such a sanctioning option already exists elsewhere in the law, namely in Section 33. I would like to sum up to say that we support the other amendments, but we will vote against amendments to Section 7 of Section 28 and Section 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e579	Thus, one relatively large group of adults and children — mainly from countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia — is now cut off the possibility of obtaining Norwegian citizenship. The background is that doubts about their identity have been established. At the same time, they — at least many of them — do not have the opportunity to demonstrate or to establish their identity, as evidence from their home country is not considered to have sufficient reputation with the foreign administration. This may include, inter alia: because the country of origin has been at war or in a war-like situation for a long time and/or because of the absence of central authorities in the country of origin. Those concerned have been granted permanent residence in Norway and thus their identity has been based on Norwegian foreign authorities in relation to the Foreign Affairs Act. Most of the Iraqis and Afghans affected by this practice have been issued passports from their respective embassies in the Nordic region. Some have also been issued a Norwegian passport to travel to their home country and acquire their passports. Both Iraqi and Afghan passports are recognised as valid travel documents by both Norwegian authorities and the EU. A not insignificant number of Somalis have received Norwegian foreign passports. Thus, many of the adults in this group have recognised travel documents with an approved residence permit that give them the right to travel around Europe without restrictions. What is problematic, however, is that they are denied democratic rights in the country in which they have lived, and where their child is born and growing up, including the right to vote in major elections. Furthermore, they are excluded from some professions and educational opportunities. Who are these? It is important to remember that this concerns people living in Norway for very many years, who have been granted permanent residence here, they have established a family, and most often they are also active. They came to Norway — often as asylum seekers — and were granted humanitarian residence on the basis of the situation in their home country. Just in the light of the situation in the home country, it is necessary to look at the countries in question, namely Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia. When they came, i.e. eight years ago, their country was either in a war situation or in a warlike situation. To use a slightly worn-out phrase: these are people who have done and do their duty, now they also demand their right. I am very happy that this bill is now working out for the children. There has been an unfortunate situation for these children, because doubts about their parents' IDs are passed on to children, which means that they do not get citizenship either. I'm glad you're cleaning up this. I also hope that the work with respect to adults will not stop now, but that the department will continue to work to clean up the situation with regard to the adults we are talking about here. These are people who want to participate in Norwegian society at all levels – the country where their children are born, grow up in and will establish themselves in. They want their children and themselves to have the same rights as other citizens of that country, and they want to be allowed to participate in major elections, freely choose a profession, education, etc. To be denied citizenship is to be rejected from the society in which they have contributed, and will contribute for very many years to come. That's why many people feel that they're being hit in an unfair way. As I said, the Christian People’s Party supports the laws that have been promoted. We are happy to have cleaned up the children, but we also hope that the work on adults will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e598	Several representatives of the government parties and the representative, Mr Bekkevold, have actually highlighted the issue in this case. I very much agree with the perspectives that the representative Bekkevold promotes here, but I want to add one: it is in our own interest that people who live here are full-fledged members of our society. In addition to giving full rights as Norwegian citizens to former asylum seekers residing in Norway, it is also in the Norwegian State's own interest that these people are treated as full members – they are here and they remain here. Citizenship can be seen as a formalisation of the unexplained social contract that exists between state and citizen. Through its relationship with Norway, the citizen is granted rights and subject to obligations vis-à-vis the Norwegian State. Norwegian citizenship marks, symbolically and in fact, that citizens adhere to the basic values on which the political community is founded, such as democracy and common political rules. The government therefore wants persons living permanently in Norway to become Norwegian nationals, to participate in Norwegian society, to belong to Norway and to respect the rights and obligations of the Norwegian State. The Government is now promoting proposals for a number of changes to the Civil Code. Proposals are made for: to make changes in the wording of the terms of identity more precise to the applicant's obligation to provide information on a broad revision of the provisions on withdrawal periods after the imposition of criminal action to include, during the period of residence, certain types of residence permits granted for less than one year to extend the transitional provision for adopted children to allow them to be reinstated by children of Norwegian nationals, even if they are less than 12 years old that the age at the time of the application should be decisive for the treatment of an applicant who is less than 18 years old in the case of the rules on Norwegian training, stateless persons and co-workers not to require a period of residence for children under two years of age who are applying for re-recruitment or as a co-person to replace the term «security of the kingdom» by «basic national interests», some minor amendments to the national law of Section 14 and the third paragraph of Section 27. The proposals together will lead to better and fairer treatment and fairer regulation as regards the conditions for the acquisition of Norwegian citizenship. One of the objectives of the National Act is to contribute to more participation among those seeking Norwegian citizenship. We are now working on a big message on integration to be presented in 2012. The communication shall form the policy basis for the future integration policy. In the Communication, we will discuss what we want citizenship to be and what role citizenship should play in the process of integration. The government believes that citizenship today is not being exploited well enough as an instrument in the process of integration. Many of the Committee's comments relate to the introduction of new rules on the identification of certain groups of applicants. These regulatory changes will enter into force before the entry into force of the legislative proposals contained in this proposal. The regulatory changes are not part of the bill, but are mentioned in the proposition. It is a problem that many applicants for citizenship are refused because they are unable to clarify their identity. The Ministry will make amendments to the national regulation so that, under certain conditions, exceptions can be made to the documentary requirements of Sections 1-1 and 1-2 of the national regulation for persons who, in accordance with current practice, are not considered to fulfil the conditions of their identity. Under certain conditions, the changes will relate to persons born here or who have come to Norway at an early age, to whom several of the speakers have come. I am pleased that the majority of the committee – all except the Progress Party – agrees that this is important both for the children and for the society in which they live. The same majority of the Committee points out that the government does not make proposals in the regulation on a similar scheme for persons who have come to Norway after the age of 17. I take it back that the majority in the committee believes it is important that the government looks at schemes for this group in order to make it easier to identify.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e648	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e651	The Council of State was concerned with the blessings and benefits that would result from the legislative amendments, if the Stortinget adopted them. Nevertheless, I am so bold that I ask questions about the winnings by rewording the well-known ‘security of the kingdom’ into the new ‘basic national interests’. I think that's a strange exercise. One simply replaces a legal standard with another legal standard, which actually covers the same situation. It is stated in the proposition that the ministry believes that ‘the security of the kingdom’ is, if interpreted in a narrow sense, somewhat out of date. [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e658	As I have understood the background to the proposals for changes in this area, it is important to have the same type of concept in terms of the law on foreigners and citizenship – the same concepts should be used. Therefore, I think that the concept of ‘basic national interests’ is comprehensive. I think people basically understand what's in it. That there should be so much difference between what is ‘the security of the kingdom’ and what is ‘basic national interests’ – I think maybe the representative Tetzschner and I can agree that I don’t see the big difference in this, but I think it’s a certain importance that a person has harmonised language usage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e664	First of all, I just want to agree entirely with State Council Halvorsen that citizenship is not just about those who get, it's also about society, that we, as a big community, are served with it. That's what they say. This matter has been worked on by the department for a long time. It has been a long time since the case was being heard, and it has been in the ministry for a long time. I'm, as I said, very happy that you've cleaned up the children, but it's an impatience also in the case of adults. So I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about the time perspective, because this is a matter that you've been working on for a long time now, so you can also solve the situation for many of these adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e671	I thank Confessor for this question. I checked at the latest at the end of last week: How is it possible to deal with the issues relating to children first? We have capacity, etc.? Many have expectations that this will be resolved quickly. I just have to state that this may take some time, because each case is to be dealt with, and there is a lack of capacity. Those who hope that things will be settled tomorrow that day need to be patient that we get away from applications. As far as adults are concerned, I can just say that we've noticed and we agree with what the committee says. That means that we want to initiate a process with regard to the identity clarification of the groups that the representative Bekkevold was in and for which we have a common commitment to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e680	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e685	I just want to draw attention to a change in the setting that we add up to should be done against the second reading of the law in Stortinget. It is quite simply that Section 9 of the Act of Citizenship, which lays down rules for the calculation of withdrawal periods and which applies to the persons applying for citizenship, understood – under the interpretation of the text of the law of the Committee – that the second paragraph of Section 9 was to be ‘pressed’ downwards and become the fourth paragraph of the text of the law. The Ministry has made us aware that this was not the Ministry's intention. And when we look at it, we also see that it's not appropriate to do it that way, just because you're going to get two terms that talk about the same relationship. What we say is that this sentence is now being deleted and that the decision to amend the law relating to Section 9 will be replaced by the following: ‘Section 9 second and new third paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: The withdrawal period shall be counted from the date of final judgment. In the event of a referral, the standstill period shall be counted from the date of adoption. The person who has been charged with punishment or specific criminal action shall not be entitled to Norwegian citizenship until it has been completed and all probationary periods have been completed.’;» The point entitled ‘§9. the second paragraph shall become the fourth paragraph’ shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e699	The rapporteur then explained changes to the setting. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e715	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e724	We're dealing with a proposition with two different suggestions. One is to wind up the annual target system for facilitators in the Foreign Office, and the other is about the right of representatives of single, minor asylum seekers. First of all, the Ministry of Justice and Police proposes to remove the senior executives’ annual management system, so that the general rule of the Staff Regulations on permanent employment applies to these posts. The Ministry did not propose to change the position of the Executive Director, which is now announced. We hope that we get good qualified applicants for that position. With the exception of the NOAS and the Law Association, the consultation round was in favour of the proposals to wind up the annual target system for facilitators. With the exception of the Progress Party and the Right, the Committee endorses the Government's proposal to wind up the annual target system for UN negotiators. The majority consider that a denominator group with more long-term and broad experience will not be less equipped to meet these challenges than a less routine group. Chairpersons with long experience and point competence will strengthen the host group and UNE as a whole. The Leadership Group has more than doubled in size since 2001. In such a large group, even if more people are in the position, there will be a considerable change. There is also reason to believe that UNE will have more highly qualified and experienced applicants for leadership positions. Greater stability and competence in the denominator leader group is likely to have a positive impact on UNE’s productivity, as the problems at the denominator’s level were the main single cause of the denominator’s lack of target achievement in 2010. Secondly, the right of representatives of single, minor asylum seekers: the fact that single, asylum-seeking children come to Norway is a relatively new phenomenon, which today's legislation takes little account of. There has been a sharp increase in the number of lone minor asylum seekers coming to Norway, leading to additional challenges and increasing pressure on the scheme. There are considerable differences between the traditional military role, with a focus on the responsibility for the economic conditions of the minor, and the special interests and needs of single, minor asylum seekers. These children need a legal substitute for their parents, who may be spokespersons to foreign authorities, schools, health services, asylum recipients/care centres, etc. It is important that the rights of children under foreign law are guaranteed, while the rights of their children under various international conventions are safeguarded. The Committee supports the proposal that the rules on representatives of lone minors be placed in the Foreign Affairs Act and not in a separate law, as proposed by the Vergemålsommittet. The location of the representation rules in the Foreign Affairs Act will make the legislation more accessible, while making it easier to see the relationship with other rules in the field of justice. The Committee considers it important that unaccompanied minor asylum-seekers should not be represented in a worse way than other asylum-seekers. The children are in a very vulnerable situation, where there is also often a short time to age, as the child will no longer have a representative to deal with. Therefore, it is also important that the representative involves the child in the various processes and contributes to self-employment. The performance of the mission by the representative must always take into account the national, linguistic, religious and cultural background of the child. We recommend the Stortinget to make the decisions that have been made in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e741	As the rapporteur has explained, this case contains two different proposals. These relate to the annual allocations in the Foreign Office and to the proceedings in asylum cases for single, minor asylum seekers. The first case, the replacement of today's annual target allocations for the head of staff of the Department of Foreign Affairs with a fixed-setting scheme, may seem to be a purely administrative matter. However, the experience gained with the annual target system, which was introduced at the time of the establishment of the Foreign Study in 2001, shows that this case has also, at least indirectly, had an impact on the quality of the appeals procedure in foreign affairs. Even after two years, in 2003, an evaluation of UNE showed that the annual target system was poor, as reported in the report. Nevertheless, the previous government chose not to make changes. The unfortunate pages have become clearer gradually. Now it's time to do something about it. UNE itself discloses that the scheme resulted in large replacements of facilitators in 2010. There were significant implications for the progress of the proceedings, perhaps at the worst possible time. We had had a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers just before. The rest had accumulated in the Foreign Directorate. The government took action and deployed considerable resources, both to reduce the number of applicants without a need for protection and to escape the residual base of the UDI. We both succeeded. This again led to a shift of residues from the UDI, which subsequently dealt with more cases than they received, and over to the UN. UNE itself stated that the large replacement of denominators meant that UNE became a bottleneck. And not enough that many ended at the same time, UNE also indicates that it is difficult to recruit a sufficient number of experienced lawyers with the relevant background to these student positions. A fair asylum policy is entirely dependent on rapid and effective good-quality treatment, not least in the last few weeks' debate. We will come back to that in a later case today, but I believe it is an important point in this case as well. We have to do what ensures the best procedure. The majority of the parties therefore support the government's proposal. The right now runs counter to fixed posts, as they did in 2003. It is a consistent approach, but difficult to understand when experience is so low. The party of progress is also opposed, but wants a reconversion of the system back to where we were before, that complaints should be submitted to the Ministry of Justice. But such decisions have nothing to do in a political system. We're going to stick to the rules, and professionals are going to have to take care of the individual decisions. We are also discussing in this matter the new representative system for single, minor asylum seekers. It is also about legal certainty and quality in dealing with a very vulnerable group of asylum seekers. Some of these children have a need for protection, while others are looking for a better future. But in common with many of these, they're sent out on a journey by their own family. I guess we can just imagine what it does to a child. They are easily sacrificed to human traffickers along the way, especially in cases where the journey is paid in instalments. Children who have to finance the journey themselves are particularly vulnerable. Some of them have experienced that the sibling has been pledged, and for that reason is subjected to enormous pressure. If there are some issues in which the best care is to be given to children, it is to these children. The most important thing is to pursue an asylum policy that prevents more and more children from experiencing such a fate. But those who have first come here are entitled to proper treatment. We see that the consent rate is higher for children than for adults. For the lone minors who are judged not to need protection, strong human considerations will weigh heavily. The figures from the UDI show that approx. 90 pst. of which may eventually be. The new representative system shall contribute to the better functioning of the children’s interests than at present while their case is under consideration. We therefore want to welcome the new regime. It is gratifying that an overall committee is behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e756	It is said that the annual target system for facilitators in the field of foreign affairs is not working properly. The Progress Party will vote against the proposal of the Government and the recommendation of the majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The Progress Party believes that large immigration dramatically changes Norway. I am far from convinced that this change is unconditionally for the best. There's a lot that points to something else. Those who are too high an immigration report that Norway needs the labour force of immigrants. I agree that Norway needs labour, but then we need immigrants working. Unfortunately, too many immigrants have done too little to qualify for the Norwegian labour market, and I want to go so far as to say that there seem to be groups of immigrants who do not seem to seem to be significantly interested in working. This means that they must be provided by Norwegian taxpayers. I would assume that there is also a certain understanding in those parties that are positive about high immigration that there is actually a limit to how many people Norwegian taxpayers are able to provide. Unlimited immigration of people who are not prepared to support themselves, but who want to be cared for by us, will mean the end of our welfare state as we know it. The Progress Party believes that immigration is too important a question to be left to the denominator. We want political control in this field. For this reason, we cannot see that the termination of the annual target system for facilitators in the field of foreign affairs solves any problem, and we will therefore vote against the recommendation in the vote, as it is available from the Committee. In the case of single, minor asylum seekers, there is something different. As has been said here, this is a particularly vulnerable group that is often tried by being forerunners of others who want to come to Norway. It is therefore important that they get someone to talk to who can be independent, and who can talk to children, but who can also get the background that these children are sent around the world to seek asylum – again as I said, to perhaps be forerunners of parents or others. The Progress Party will vote in favour of Section 98 and beyond, but we will vote against the change in annual target allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e771	Two points in a matter that is not too far-reaching and in principle. First, the right supports the proposal for the appointment of a representative of single, minor asylum seekers, in accordance with the principles laid down in the Vergemålsgesetz. We believe that it strengthens the individual legal certainty of the minors who stand alone in their meeting with the Norwegian administration, and with a regulatory framework that determines their future. The second point is yardsticks. The right is against the winding-up of the annual target arrangements for the facilitators of the Foreign Letter. We believe that the posts are in a different category than those normally under the Civil Service Act. The chairpersons exercise similar judicial powers in the sense that there are strong restrictions on the right to review decisions taken by the denominators and the principals. The consideration of professional updates in a field that is moving legally, conventionally – i.e. within the Conventional Court – both in Norway and internationally, means that this is an area of law that is not at rest and that needs to be kept up-to-date. This, taken together in terms of self-determination, refers to independence during the period, but the period of course also ends. The right, therefore, wants to have negotiators on a yearly basis in the course of the process. We are pleased to note that the proposal includes a proposal that the Director of the Foreign Affairs Department should continue to be appointed on a yearly basis. We also support this, but believe that it can be well argued that the Director and the head of staff should have a similar basis for employment. That's why we want to extend our positive attitude to goal positions to student leaders, and we want to vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e782	As the rapporteur has explained, this is a matter of two things – roughly. One is about the employment conditions of people working in a foreign language subject, and the other is about the establishment of a representative arrangement. First, I just want to say that putting in place a representative system and that it starts to apply, comes into force, from 1 January next year, is a huge boost to legal certainty for single, minor asylum seekers. When we're out there meeting people who care for the interests of lonely, minor asylum seekers, they're concerned that they have one representative who's grown up throughout the process and that it's extremely important. It's about making sure that the children we're talking about get security to the system – get security for fair treatment and everything that you get by having a very concrete hand to hold on to. What, of course, is the challenge, and as the Minister of Justice is given the responsibility to ensure that we are properly followed up, is what lies in the fluid transitions when children move around the country. We know that today it is problematic that children can get many to deal with. By putting in place good practices and arrangements for this representative system, we get a system that ensures that children have a representative throughout. We have to make sure that they have the opportunity to build security and trust in someone without being left to themselves for a short or longer time. It's important. It is clear that this is difficult, all the time people are going to move around the country, but putting this system in place is at least a confirmation of the government's desire to get this done. And then it's about following this up in practice. In the case of facilitators, I would like to say that I want to use Michael Tetzschner's arguments to just abolish the annual target system. I would say that the independence of the directors is an argument in favour of abolishing the annual target system. All that is about just having to keep up-to-date with the entire foreign field – which is a complicated field at the intersection of the international and national – makes it a good reason to abolish an annual target system. It is also a problem that has been pointed out by both the trust-elected and the director of the UNEs, that in addition to the annual target period, it is felt that nemesis managers are seeking to move on to other places, so that the annual target period is, in reality, not two full periods, but one that will eventually end, and that there is a slow drop during the period. I think we're getting a system where you make sure people stay there. People come, people stay there and become part of the development and competence of the field over time and secure their independent position. It actually ensures better employment conditions, which I think will also help make it even more attractive to apply for the positions in the Foreign Office than it is today. Finally, I would like to say to Morten Ørsal Johansen that he now allowed himself to take the big immigration discussion here. I just want to say simply that a proposal to move decisions and appeals back to the Ministry of Justice is something I would strongly warn against. Our experience in dealing with asylum and complaints in the Ministry of Justice is very negative. My experience from that time is very negative. There is a risk of taking decisions in the Ministry of Justice where a decision is approved or not approved, a little depending on the political pressure on a case, and then you have to find out later what the good arguments were to ensure that that case was accepted. It's not desirable. We want equal treatment for equal and equivalent issues, and then having a political decision on this is not desirable. Another point is the low threshold. You can imagine that you will receive a Minister of Advancement Party who will be in government and who will have authority to decide. But it is also the case that, as far as I know, the Progress Party respects both the European Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Refugees, which lays the groundwork for what is to be done. So it's not up to the politicians to decide. It's international legal principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e801	The President just wants to remind you that all the speeches are to be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e804	In this case, we are discussing two important issues: how best to ensure that UNE's facilitators have the necessary skills and experience to fill the job, and the right of a representative of a single minor asylum seeker. For the Central Party, it is absolutely central to have a balanced and consistent refugee and immigration policy. Human dignity, humanistic traditions and our international efforts to help people who are persecuted form the basis of our policies. It is necessary to organise the non-resident authorities in such a way as to ensure a rapid and sound procedure ensuring the legal certainty of the individual. There is no doubt that UNE's negotiators have a demanding and important job. Rapid and sound procedures for all applicants require the staff of the denominator to have extensive and broad knowledge and experience. Membership leaders have a high responsibility and need to keep up to date on both new country information and developments in national and international law. The world is constantly changing, and it is very central that the negotiators have the necessary skills and experience to help make the right decisions. In order to ensure good procedural management, it is essential that facilitators have the capacity for professional innovation. The Central Party, as a majority of the Committee, has concluded that a system without annual targets for facilitators would be the best solution to achieve this overall. The second theme is the right of a single minor asylum seeker to represent him. There is no doubt that children who come to Norway alone as refugees are in a very vulnerable situation. That is why the Centre Party has programmed that we will ensure a good follow-up of single, minor asylum seekers and that the role of defence should be clear, good and clear. It's important. There is a great difference between being responsible for their own old mother and for a lonely, minor asylum seeker with some heavy baggage. There is also a major difference between the traditional role of guardians of minors and the role of guardians of single, minor asylum seekers. That is why I see clear advantages in separating the role by establishing a representative system for single, minor asylum seekers. At the same time, it is very central that it is made clear both where the role of representative begins and where it ends. It is a prerequisite that those taking on the role are given the skills necessary for them to feel safe in the role and that they have a good overview of the child’s rights — good enough to provide further support if necessary. It is important not only to appoint enough representatives, but to appoint appropriate representatives. This means not only that they are given the necessary training, but also that they are provided with a police record. I am concerned that there is a systematic effort to recruit more people, preferably in cooperation with non-governmental organisations and organisations with, for example, children's professional competence. At the same time, I would like to stress the need for children to have permanent adults who follow them over time. This has been challenging with today’s work arrangement, as children are moved between reception and new legumes are appointed. Continuity is central to achieving trust and to being able to do a good job as a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e823	This was originally just meant to be a simple explanation of vote, because the Left will agree with the Right to keep the goal position even for the denominators. It has always been an important principle for us that when people manage so much power, you don't do it in a fixed position. When you're assigned such a big and powerful role as being the head of the denominator, you're actually also challenged by power politics. I think it is healthy in a democracy that positions that involve so much power are also goals. I'm glad that the government also ended up with it when it came to the management of this field. It was wise of the government. They should also have done so when it comes to the receivers, because they manage a lot of power over many people's lives. That is why, in principle, as we have always thought, it should still be so, and we should vote in favour of it. Then I just have to make a small remark to the representative of the Progress Party, who thought that everyone who was not born in Norway was out of work. It's a statement that you don't know if you're going to laugh or cry about, but I've chosen to laugh at it today, and I could imagine it would have been interesting – through the president, of course – to invite the representative to visit the city of Oslo and see how many taxis we had received, or how much food we'd have at a restaurant if we were just to be served by people who have parents – and by any means also grandparents – who were born in Norway. But perhaps even more serious: I had the experience of being hospitalized in this city, and I have to say that it would have been a bad treatment if you only had people with Norwegian citizenship to practice the treatment, because during a week's stay at Lovisenberg Hospital, I experienced having one nurse from Oppdal, and that was the most ethnic Norwegian I ever experienced. Otherwise, I thought it was fascinating to experience being at a Christian private hospital in Oslo with a superior with hijab. That was great.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e832	With regard to the winding-up of the annual target system for facilitators in the field of foreign affairs, I have noticed that the majority of the committee, all but the members of the Progress Party, join the key elements highlighted in the proposal. The majority state that the closure of the annual target scheme will contribute to the wider uptake of long-term and broad experience by retaining experienced commentators and that future calls will attract more highly qualified applicants. This in turn will strengthen UNE's competence and case resolution. However, the members of the Committee from the Right concluded that, following an overall assessment, the posts should be on a yearly basis, and we also heard the Left. Members point out that the facilitators have a strong influence on the development of foreign practices and the importance of professional innovation in a dynamic field. I can't see that a peer-to-peer group with greater and wider experience would be less equipped to meet the challenges of a demanding and dynamic field of expertise. Nor can I see that systematic replacement of facilitators is a necessary and particularly appropriate measure to stimulate professional innovation. There are currently 32 headmasters employed in UNE, and in such a large group there will always be some replacement. It is true, as the members of the Right note, that the heads of the United Nations have a special role as independent decision-makers in a judicially-like body. However, I believe that this role speaks for the removal of the target system. The independence of supervisors is determined by the Storting and the establishment of permanent posts protects this independence. If UNE’s practice is desired to be adjusted from a political point of view, it shall be done by law and regulation — not by the replacement of decision-makers. I note that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party do not wish to change the position of the facilitators. However, this is not justified by objections to the proposed changes, but by the intention of the Progress Party to terminate the Foreign Letter as such. That's another question, which is not the topic today. Finally, I would like to stress that employment for years is the exception, not the rule. No one should be employed in interim targets unless specific reasons justify it. I believe that in the case of the supervisors there is no reason to derogate from the general rule of the Civil Service Act. With regard to the proposal on the representation of lone minor asylum seekers, I have noticed that an overall committee is joining the key elements highlighted in the proposal. The Government proposes to give its own rules of law on the rights of a single minor asylum seeker to a representative. The new legislation will replace the current system of guardians of this group and will make it clear that there are clear differences between a mission as a guardian and a mission as a representative of a single minor asylum seeker. Lone minor asylum seekers shall have the same level of legal protection as Norwegian children. However, it is important to have legislation to address the specific needs of a group of particularly vulnerable children. The new representative system underlines that all single, minor asylum seekers are entitled to respect and protection of their rights. The government’s proposals, together with the new WFN adopted in the spring of 2010, will ensure increased legal certainty for vulnerable groups, ensure empowerment and contribute to a more coherent organisation of organisations. The specific rules on representatives of single, minor asylum seekers will provide clearer guidance on the mission of the representative and ensure that representatives receive necessary and qualitatively equal training. The representatives shall be sufficiently familiar with the asylum procedure and the specificities associated with the role of representative of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers, and the proposed representative system shall also ensure continuous follow-up if the child moves or if, for other reasons, it is necessary to appoint a new representative. Lone minor asylum seekers are vulnerable to abuse and recruitment into criminal environments. Therefore, everyone who is to be appointed as a representative shall be required to submit a police certificate in accordance with the rules on the Child Care Certificate in new police records. The law requires the representative to be appropriate and the police record is included in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e859	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e862	In this proposition, it is proposed, inter alia: that the annual target system for facilitators in the Foreign Office is to be terminated and changed to permanent posts. The starting point for previously selected annual targets was to ensure the replacement of facilitators at regular intervals. The target was four years, with the possibility of re-appointment. It is important to recruit experienced lawyers with relevant and good experience in the teaching positions. This requirement may be difficult to combine with objective positions, in this case limited to a maximum of eight years, possibly only four. My experience with annual targets is that there may be a suitable form of employment related to some management positions, but annual targets may actually be negative when it comes to recruiting a wide range of jobs. I will not conclude as to whether this has been the case in the Study on Foreign Affairs, but the attractiveness of the job is important in order to attract the most qualified applicants. I record that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are opposed to terminating the annual target system for facilitators. One of the arguments is to keep up to date in the field. I would like to say that it is fully possible to keep up-to-date even if you are not a goalkeeper. Implicit in the argument can be read as if you wanted to do a worse craft if you were a regular employee. I think experience and continuity will be good for those who are to be assessed as tutors. I think it is a good idea to change the position from an annual target to a fixed position. I also think it is right to add a firm post-call, so that you get a clean and correct transition to the new job form – i.e. no automatic transition from an annual target position to a fixed position.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e875	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e889	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Heikki Holmås, who is the rapporteur on the matter. The President cannot see that Holmås is present. Then we move on to the next speaker, Lise Christoffersen – then Morten Ørsal Johansen. The president records that Heikki Holmås has now arrived in the hall, so he is then the next speaker after Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e902	I was now preparing to step down again to let go of the case rapporteur, because I was actually going to consider drawing my contribution on this matter after hearing the rapporteur's statement, but now I'm going to keep it, as a small duty race, and then we're going to hope that it is in line with what the case-rapporteur comes up with. I do not intend to take the time unnecessarily into this matter. It is an overall committee which is behind the very scarce committee comments. Whatever the status of the ongoing asylum and immigration debate, we are all concerned with the importance of knowing the identity of those who are staying in the country at all times. We are committed to combating illegal immigration and illegal residence. With the new Schengen standardised residence card, it becomes more difficult to falsify residence permits or falsify their identity by using other people's papers. Those who serve the most on it are those who are legally resident and those who seek protection in Norway. The less resources we spend on identifying IDs and revealing fake documents, the more resources we can spend on those who demand our attention. At the same time, it is clarified that lending the card to others, who abuse it, is punishable by fines or imprisonment. Again, there may be consequences for the individual’s ability to stay further. So the possibility of such reactions may also help prevent abuse. However, for all those who relate to the laws and regulations applicable in the foreign field, the practical benefits of the card will be what is important. If we were to believe that all the benefits of the new card for both authorities and users are not enough, then we are obliged to introduce the new card under the EEA Agreement, so we really don't have a choice!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e913	The next speaker is Heikki Holmås. While Holmås goes up to the pulpit, the president will remember that the representatives must be in the Chamber when they are to have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e916	I fully agree with that. Sometimes things go a little faster than what you have calculated, and it's just to complain. Or, it's good that things are going faster than you've calculated, but it's stupid that you're out there being taken to bed because of it. So that's what they say. The Committee's comments on this matter are extremely brief, and that is simply because we fully agree with the Ministry. There is a good proposal from the government here. That's something we have to do, and that's something that's good. For some of the things that I have at least received many enquiries from people about, the problem is to get basic banking services in place. If you do not have an ID that is clear enough for you to be able to approve everything you need, if you have not been given an ID by the state, you often have problems. I think the most special case I had been in was a woman who had study rights in Norway, who was entitled to money from the State Loan Fund, but who did not get a bank account and therefore did not get the money out of the Loan Fund, because we have succeeded so well in streamlining the State Loan Fund that everything goes automatically. It shows some everyday problems that are very distant from us, which are big business representatives, but which some of those who come to Norway experience, for different reasons, and which we are now trying to sort out. I understand that we cannot make the banking industry responsible for issuing what is de facto identity cards for a good number of people who live in Norway. It's not the job of the banking industry. It's the government's job. That's why it's very good that we now get this residence card in place. That's good for people, because that means they have the opportunity to integrate better into Norway. I am sure that even Morten Ørsal Johansen from the Progress Party agrees that when immigrants really have a stand-on attitude, so that they will take education and get to work, it is foolish that if they are lacking from the public, they are prevented from doing the job themselves. But we're going to get that fixed up right now, and that's very good!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e931	The undersigned was here when it was his turn to stand on the platform. I can say I agree with the representative Holmås that those who come to Norway have a stand-by, want to take an education, want to contribute to the Norwegian community, they also support the Progress Party 100 pst. up about. Clearly, these immigrants are not a challenge for Norwegian society either. Rather, on the contrary, they can be an enrichment for Norwegian society. When we are about to introduce such a system through Schengen for biometric data in residence cards, we are positive about it. It is a joint committee that is in favour of it. It's a step in the right direction. Not least, it is important to know who comes to Norway — and possibly stay here. What is also positive with the scheme is that the Ministry now enters into the obligation to provide biometric data to the residence card. But it is also an obligation to give fingerprints to check against the information contained in the card. But then we've seen some challenges in terms of fingerprints. Some people obviously don't want to be helpful with their identity. The files remove fingerprints, they are burning away. Even it has been discovered that some people get fitted with false fingerprints. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to go even further in terms of the biometric data to be in such a map, namely that a DNA profile is also inserted. The DNA profile is the new fingerprint. The ability to change its DNA profile is equal to zero, as opposed to fingerprint. But the Progress Party feels that this is an improvement. It is positive that we now go in to obtain such information that makes it a safer everyday life, for the Norwegian authorities, and not least for the immigrants who are in Norway. We hope that the introduction of DNA profiles is the next right step that is being taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e946	It is positive that we are now receiving a residence card that is standardised within the Schengen area. A few years ago, I visited the waiting reception – as it was then called – in Lier. Then he who managed the reception could tell me that the guy who was sitting over there had been in Norway under 14 different identities. But he didn't have a residence card, so they had to clarify it every time. This is also a very important step in quickly being able to identify those who come back again and again, after refusing asylum. It's an important element. So that's kind of the immigration-regulating part of what's important. But it is also very important, as others have said, that those who come to Norway and who are actually going to act as part of the Norwegian community have a document that gives them the opportunity to do so, for example. making use of banking services and being able to show who they are. So that's important. There are longer passports in the proposal on privacy. It considers that the Committee is well-managed, as it has now been designed. There have been some discussions about what the Data Protection Authority believes, but this is largely well-managed – including privacy considerations – among others. by storing the fingerprints and biometrics in the card. In that sense it shall not be abuseable. So I welcome this. There were very brief comments on this matter. It was because we were told that this was a matter that was very urgent. So then I hope that it gets started quickly, and that one soon gets issued these cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e955	I am pleased that the Committee endorses the government's proposal to introduce a Schengen standardised biometric residence card. The amendment establishes a system whereby residence cards are to be issued with electronically stored biometry to all persons granted a residence permit in Norway. This will increase the safety of residence permits documentation, thus contributing to the prevention of illegal immigration and illegal residence. There are considerations that are important for the government to take care of. At the same time, the cards will also make it easier for users to document the residence permit to actors other than the authorities, such as employers, banks, etc. This will also make it easier for foreigners who have been granted a residence permit in Norway but for various reasons do not have identification documents. Among other things, the residence card could be considered as sufficient evidence for the establishment of basic banking services, which is important in the everyday life of all those who have been granted a residence permit and who are to function in the Norwegian community. As indicated in the proposal, the Ministry is also in the process of investigating whether all fingerprints taken in issuing residence cards and visas should also be stored in a national register or database. The different benefits and disadvantages of the establishment of such a register must be weighed and the financial and administrative costs and benefits of such establishment determined. At the same time, it is important to look at privacy considerations — including this assessment. These are questions that need to be further worked on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e968	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e971	Changes to the Foreign Affairs Act relating to the introduction of a Schengen standardised biometric residence card will increase the safety of residence permits documentation and thus contribute to the fight against illegal immigration and residence. The documentation is improved and the legal certainty of individual ID determinations is strengthened. This change will improve our foreign administration and is unfavorably positive. This type of residence card may include, for example: be applicable to non-residents who are granted a border residence certificate. In November 2010, an agreement on border residence certificates was signed between Norway and Russia. When the agreement enters into force, residents of border areas on the Norwegian and Russian sides will be able to obtain a border residence certificate upon application. The Norwegian-Russian border was closed for about 70 years. That we can now get to a smooth traffic across the border of those who live on a border is incredibly joyous. It means further strengthening and further development of South Varanger as a bridgehead into Russia. This could mean increased industrial development in the area, which would mean increasing people-to-people cooperation and further development of the North Region policy. We see that the government's work in this field manifests itself in practically implemented policies, for the benefit of the inhabitants of the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e982	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e996	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1005	Four proposals are proposed in the proposal from the Left. The last of these four proposals is the most far-reaching. It is proposed that the Stortinget should ask the government to ‘implement a regularisation for paperless immigrants’ – i.e. amnesty. The Left promoted a proposal that is in many ways consistent with this proposal, Document 8:69 for 2010–2011, and a broad majority of the Committee refers to its comments in that position – Innst. 283 S for 2010–2011. The Committee has submitted the proposals from the Left to the Government and has received a full response letter, signed by Minister of Justice Grete Faremo. The normal thing, then, is that one of the Committee's members refers to the letter from the Council of State in the vote, which I, of course, as the rapporteur, have also done. The alarming thing is that the government parties will not agree to refer to the letter from Minister of Justice Grete Faremo. So it's not a forgetfulness – government parties have been asked several times if they want to be on a note that refers to the letter from the Council of State. The answer has been that one can call mumbling, without a clear conclusion. Well, the Right Party and the Advance Party have at least referred to the letter of reply. The red-greens, in their very narrow remarks, have shown that the government's policy, including the Soria Moria declaration, is firm and that they have no further comments. A more explicit expression that there is complete internal fragmentation among government parties on how to deal with cases of illegal immigrants shall be a long look. It is striking that the debate on these issues is raging outside this Chamber, while the country's legislative assembly feels that the parties to the government do not at all consider the realities of the Left's proposal. The right, together with the Progress Party, has chosen to comment on each of the proposals from the Left, but naturally we have not had the opportunity to comment on all of the additional proposals that came on the table from the Left today. Proposal No. 1:@item: inlistbox ‘The government asks the government to review asylum policy on the basis of the situation of the paperless and to implement the necessary changes to ensure basic humanitarian rights, security and predictable lives in Norway.’ The right will point out that Norway is striving to pursue a humane, fair and strict asylum policy that follows the international conventions on which Norway is obliged. We share the government's view that there is no need for a greater review of asylum policy based on the situation of the undocumented – or returnees, whom I prefer to call them. Proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by ‘The government is asking that paperless immigrants receive the necessary physical and mental health care, even if they are lacking identification papers.’ A similar proposal was up last year when we discussed the earlier proposal. Then it was referred to a hearing. On 3 November 2011, the Ministry of Health and Health gave new guidelines for health care to persons without permanent residence in the State and persons without legal residence in the State. This shows that everyone has the right to immediate help. Furthermore, it appears that everyone has the right to health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot wait. It is also apparent that, irrespective of the place of residence, children and pregnant women have an almost complete right to health care. We therefore believe that proposal No. 2 is superfluous, and it's already taken care of. Proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘The government asks the government to facilitate the legal working of undocumented immigrants and to pay taxes until the known date of departure.’ The right does not wish to extend the possibility of persons working without a legal stay. Granting a work permit to persons without legal residence would be contradictory and contribute to undermining the respect and trust of the asylum institution. The duty and incentives to return voluntarily would be completely undermined. However, we would point out that a work permit can be granted if the refusal is not to be implemented. It assumes that the asylum seeker has received a work permit while the asylum application was being processed, and may be relevant where the asylum seeker cooperates with the foreign authorities on return and identity. Then there's the last proposal, namely a proposal for a regularisation for paperless immigrants. We don't want to give an amnesty to returnees on the right. It is not desirable that people stay illegally in Norway, with the unfortunate consequences for society and for the people concerned. Granting a residence permit to this group may lead to an increasing number of people failing to travel to their country of origin after final rejection and undermine the confidence of the asylum institution. Today, we have a system of regulation. Paragraphs 8 to 5 of the Foreign Regulation state that special attention should be paid to children's relationship with Norway when assessing stay on a humanitarian basis. I see that I can't go into the new proposals that the Left has promoted. I will come back to it in another post later, but I will already signal that the Right only wants to support proposal No. 9 from the left. The other proposals will be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1051	The rapporteur has explained some of – at least as far as he was concerned – the content of the draft representative from the Left. But he also made a small tour of the government parties and commented that there is complete internal fragmentation here. For my own part, I have registered a bit of internal fragmentation also in the Right, where the representative of Greece is obviously not quite in line with his party leader Erna Solberg when it comes to a new review of the matters of long-term children. But enough about it. We will probably have the opportunity to come back to that later in the debate. Back to the Left’s proposal: it was originally about extending the right to health care, extending the right to work and regulating people without legal residence in Norway. It is less than a year since the Stortinget dealt with similar proposals from the same representatives. The proposals were then voted down by a slightly different, but clearly majority here in the Stortinget. So one of the proposals from the Left last year was as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assess the case of a permanent residence permit for long-term residents in Norway in the light of the different models used by other European countries.’ That proposal only got seven votes, from the Left and the Christian People's Party. It is difficult to see what has changed in these few months, except that there has recently been a public debate on the topic of long-term children, who Left wants to push a vote on already today through their proposals over the table. But such great demands must be allowed to be made to us as big-time representatives, in all parties, that the important question of long-term children was also part of our assessments when we discussed the matter a short time ago – at least it was for us in the Workers' Party, in the same way that it is today. Therefore allow me a quick look back at what we said in the previous debate. There was also a letter from the Council of State stressing that: ‘there is no doubt that it may be a great burden to be in a situation where life is put on hold, especially when this involves being hidden and with limited well-being goods. Especially for children, this is an unsustainable life. Children are not guilty of choosing their parents, but often become a victim. Although today’s legislation and practices pay particular attention to children’s ties with the Reich, the government wants to look further at the situation of children who have lived for a long time in Norway illegally. The government will provide a big message providing a broad and comprehensive review of key issues related to children on the run. The notification will discuss in greater detail the situation of long-term children and, where appropriate, the basis for an embellishment of practices for this group, so that the importance of illegal residence times is less than currently in favour of granting a residence permit. This is therefore a question that the government will come back to.» That's how we still want to have it. We want to deal with this matter with the seriousness of its merits, in an overall assessment of the situation for children on the run. We are not going to vote in favour of the Left's proposal here today. We support the position that the draft representative should be annexed to the Minutes. The working party’s pooling group shall have the opportunity to assess the matter carefully when the child pooling message comes from a refugee point of view. However, we will signal that we still want to have a fair asylum policy, based on our international commitments on protection for those who need it. This means that it is the non-resident authorities who are to assess the existence of such a need for protection. It may not be that only you have children and have managed to stay in Norway for a certain number of years, you will be able to stay anyway. Then we no longer have any asylum policy, but in practice free immigration for families with children. Few people think so, but many think that we should temporarily deviate from the asylum policy and find a solution for the children who are here now. That commitment is understandable. These kids are in an impossible situation, but we've tried that recipe before, in 2004. It only went three years, and we were there again -- with new long-term children. The new foreign regulation was then amended in 2007, and now we are there again, in 2011–2012. A temporary regularisation solves nothing. We have to find other tools that are durable, if possible. In football we talk about "transitional window". I wonder when the Left’s ‘transitional window’ in this case is closed – because it will have to be closed. The left even says that it's a proposal of a temporary nature. This might be Trine Skei Grande's answer to yourself: When closing the "crossover" window of the Left for those who were not so lucky that they were able to get both legs over the window screen?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1074	On 31 December 2011, there were 3,807 children living in Norwegian asylum centres. Some are single, minor asylum seekers, while a number live there with their parents. They have either been born while their parents lived in the reception or are so-called accompanying children. Some also have Norwegian mother or father, whom asylum seekers have met in Norway. Both in 2004 and 2006, the government adopted a decision that allowed asylum seekers living more than three years of age to re-approach, leading to residence in the country for most of the time. The effect has been that Norway has received much more asylum seekers, because some have been perceived to be long enough in Norway, you will finally be able to stay. In 2004, as I said, the Stortinget was first given a proposal to adopt an amnesty for long-term residents of asylum seekers. Then the Progress Party supported the proposal for an exemption clause to resolve a problem that had arisen as a result of the Bondevik Government's liberal asylum policy. They did not dare to send rejected asylum seekers and instead allowed them to stay for years at the reception of asylum seekers. Our assumption was that the policy had to be reformed. Asylum seekers who refused had to leave the country quickly or be placed in closed receptions, so that they were encouraged to leave the country and go home voluntarily, which most can actually do. It didn't happen. When the red-green government took over, the problems of asylum policy grew, and in 2006 the situation was exactly the same. Asylum seekers continued to live for a long time at receptions, and again came the proposal for an amnesty. The Party rejected the proposal with a reference to the 2004 amnesty as a derogation. In 2009, the situation came again. Then there were over 300 rejected Iraqi Kurds who had to stay because they had lived so long at the reception. The trailers called it an exceptional solution to solve an unusual problem. Now the situation is here again. 450 children, both with and without parents, have lived in Norwegian asylum recipients for more than three years because the government has not negotiated return agreements or because they are not forced to return or have voluntarily travelled. The Progress Party is opposed to providing another amnesty for asylum seekers. It is the government's responsibility that there are now 450 asylum children who have not been sent out immediately after the rejection. The working party is tough in its media performances, but in action they are weak. The families this applies, have believed that they will be allowed to stay, since no one has been able to send them out of the country. It is a recurring problem, which tells of serious shortcomings in Norwegian asylum policy. It is wrong to reward families with children who, through their own independent choices, have chosen to remain in asylum recipients for three years or more. It is the parents who have to bear the primary responsibility for putting the kids in this situation. That applies, in other words, not only to 450 kids, but also to their parents. The history of amnesty shows that asylum seekers have strong incentives to stay in reception and to oppose voluntary return. Of course, among the 450 asylum seekers, there may be people with excessive discretion. There may also be some who now have a basis for staying in Norway because the situation in their home country has changed. In that case UNE must decide. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals on how asylum seekers should be treated and taken care of when they come to Norway, for example. asylum seekers must be placed in closed reception without a secure ID and that the asylum process must be much, much more effective. Long waiting times are not good, either for the applicant or for Norway. The Party also considers that rejected asylum seekers should be immediately placed in reception or in closed reception pending their return. It encourages and motivates voluntary return. Furthermore, we have proposed that asylum seekers should not be given the opportunity to work, take education or learn Norwegian while waiting for a return. It does not encourage voluntary return. When a person comes to Norway and seeks asylum, he or she may, after a long and circumstantial treatment in the UDI, appeal to the decision. If they do not agree, they can complain to UNE, and if they do not agree with UNE, they can send as many requests for conversion as they can. In 2010, UNE 4,074 dealt with requests for conversion. If one assumes that 140 requests for conversion require one year's work, 29 people had to work every day to deal with requests for conversion. Almost none of the applicants for conversion are in favour. By the way, the number 140 is from the 2010 NOU on complaints in the foreign administration. This sample proposes to tighten up access to send requests for conversion. The fact that the matter is still being dealt with by the government basically says about how comprehensive the red-green government has been about Norwegian asylum policy. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1093	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1096	For a number of years SV has worked to ensure that the children of asylum seekers who have been in Norway for a long time remain in the country. I would like to commend the Left, who is promoting proposals and thus helping to keep this debate warm. We're now working to find a solution in the government for these kids. The first time we put forward proposals on this subject, I myself was in favour of it. At the time, left in government, Christian People's Party as well. I was in opposition. At the time, we wanted a permanent arrangement that ensured that children were allowed to stay. At the time, all the parties on the Stortinget were instead in favour of an amnesty-stimulating scheme that ensured more than 200 children the opportunity to stay in Norway. The problem was that the following year there were as many children who had been in reception for more than three years. That time we also made a proposal, but that time we didn't get more with us than the Center Party. The others voted against. Managing through such a single clean-up in individual cases is a bad policy. It sank into all the games at Stortinget the following year. In 2006, when we had a red-green government, the Christian People's Party promoted the same proposal that I had previously supported. Then the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre negotiated a new code to meet the proposals of the Christian People's Party. I was myself part of that discussion and the negotiation with the other parties in the government, negotiated with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and the Center Party's Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. It was then two things that were important to us. One was that we were going to have a code that took more account of the kids. The other thing was to make a permanent arrangement and not an amnesty. The permanent arrangement was a strengthening of the child's best in the new Foreign Affairs Act and what is now Section 8-5 of the Foreign Regulations. It says, ‘In assessing strong human considerations under § 38, special attention shall be given to the children’s connection with the kingdom.’ Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said several different things in that debate. He pointed out that it was better to have a general scheme than a scheme that went quite explicitly on the number of years, for, as he said: ‘We could have had a situation in which a family of children who had been at an asylum reception for three years and a few days, but who really had a weaker basis for stay, than a family who had been there for two years, eleven months and a few weeks, had. So it would be coincidences that decided whether to stay or not." That's why he wanted a general arrangement, and that's what we agreed on. He also said the following: ‘At the same time, we are aware that, for example: a strong connection with the State is a basis for residence and that it must be justified that children will often develop such ties more quickly than adults. It is therefore the government's policy that we want the child's connection with the kingdom to be given greater weight than today, that is, to adjust the legislation so that the child's connection with the kingdom is given greater weight than it is today." It said Bjarne Håkon Hanssen at that time, and the Christian People's Party Bjørg Tørresdal followed up by saying, ‘It is gratifying that the Government Parties, the Christian People’s Party and the Left on the Stortinget have agreed on a new policy for minor asylum seekers. I believe that, through the proposed changes, we will not find ourselves in the same situation that hundreds of children have been in an unexplained situation for years." It was Storting's intention to do something about it that time, but now we're left in a situation where there's hundreds of kids here for a long time. The background to this is that the practice of the legislation in the field of foreign affairs is much more stringent than we anticipated when we adopted the decisions on change. Several times later, therefore, we have raised the concern of long-term children with former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget. He started working on the child-breathing news and said in this connection that two to three years is a sea of time in a child's life. The forthcoming communication will identify the situation of these children and therefore open up a wider debate. The government is working to establish a permanent regime for asylum seekers, but as long as we do not agree on a new government policy, we are therefore voting against the proposal presented by the Left here today. Working together in government means that the parties agree on everything through government negotiations. It's in the SV's interest, it's in the children's interest. If we break this form of cooperation, there will not necessarily be a majority of things that need to be agreed on here in the Storting. There is a major debate outside the community that arouses strong commitment – from the Progress Party and to the left in Norwegian policy. We have a good debate, we have a strong pressure to change the practice of today's legislation, and we are optimistic about finding a solution that is good for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1125	The Centre Party will have an immigration and integration policy that focuses on human dignity, where individuals have clear rights and obligations. All applicants for asylum in Norway shall have the security to ensure legal certainty. The centre party wants a clear practice so that, through unclear signals, it does not help to increase the influx of people who do not have the basis for protection and thus do not stay. I assume that asylum seekers who have a need for protection receive asylum. Where there is no need for protection and where there is no basis for humanitarian residence, asylum is not granted. Of course, the consequence must be that he has to return to his country of origin. The four proposals from the Left deal with paperless immigrants, a concept that I have had a hard time understanding since I started working on immigration policy. As I interpret the term ‘documentless asylum seekers’, it must apply to those who are unable to provide the necessary proof of identity because they come from countries with unclear birth registers or because they come from countries that do not issue passports. Some people use the concept of those who are self-inflicted without a entry document because they have destroyed the passport on arrival or those who have provided several different identities. In this proposal for a representative, the concept of persons without a legal stay in Norway, i.e. returnees who have not fulfilled their obligation to return to their country of origin when a final refusal to apply for asylum exists, is used. This is a group where most people have explained identity, so they're not paperless. The left wishes that anyone who is illegally present in Norway be granted a work permit until the date of departure to be known. For me, there would be a great contradiction about all those who are refused asylum to compete in the labour market in the same way as those who have been granted asylum. The main priority must be the settlement and good integration of those who have received a residence permit. The proposers ask the government to carry out a regularisation for paperless immigrants. I assume that the Left with the paperless here means asylum seekers who have been rejected and are staying illegally in Norway. Granting a residence permit to that group will result in fewer and fewer rejections returning on a voluntary basis. The Central Party will pursue a fair asylum policy. Is it fair to return, for example: after four to five years in Norway, will an automatic residence permit be obtained, while another in exactly the same situation, who chose to comply with Norwegian law and return to the same country after refusal of asylum application, is not allowed to stay in Norway? By no means – we cannot reward anyone for training a legally enforced expulsion decision. Today there are another eight proposals from the Left in addition to the four original ones. I just have time to comment on some of them. A proposal is to grant automatic residence permits to families with children if they have been in Norway for more than three years. This would lead to the liberalisation of Norwegian asylum policy, which, in all likelihood, would increase the influx of asylum seekers without a real need for protection. That doesn't mean I'm not worried about kids who stay in reception over a long time. Asylum reception is not a good place to grow up. However, an automatic residence permit for all families with children who have been in Norway for more than three years would be deeply unfair for other children in exactly the same situation, but where parents chose to comply with Norwegian law and return upon rejection. I don't want to facilitate a policy that can give us an increasingly large group of long-term children in the years to come because the influx is increasing. The confidence of the asylum institution will be weakened if refusal of asylum in practice does not have any consequences other than not being allocated housing after three years. The case-handling time is now down to approx. one and a half years, i.e. that the child does not develop a strong relationship with the State during the course of proceedings. The aim must be to further reduce the processing time and to ensure rapid return, so that we do not allow young people to remain in reception for a long time in the future. With regard to the question of whether the 450 long-term children who are in Norway today should remain, the answer is not yes or no. The answer is that someone should stay and someone should be sent out of the country. For example, Wednesday comes. The foreign student until Nathan’s case is further assessed – individual assessments are and will be made. I have full confidence in the administration and that the best interests of children will be given great weight. It is not our role as politicians to deal with individual matters. The center party is concerned about the situation of the long-term children, and we'll look carefully at what is the right solution for these families. There will be an important theme in the big news about children on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1153	First and foremost, the fear that more consideration for the children will lead to the flooding of Norway by asylum seekers. That fear is not real. Looking at the change that took place in 2004, where the representative Heikki Holmås played a significant role, we can see that in 2005 and 2006, this did not at all lead to a flood of new asylum seekers. We have never had as low asylum rates as we had in 2005 and 2006. In 2005, 5 402 asylum seekers arrived, 5 320 in 2006. As regards asylum seekers in 2008 and 2009 — yes, many asylum seekers came at that time — I think we need to look for reasons other than a change of rules in 2007. Among other things, Sweden changed its practice towards Iraqi refugees, and if you look at those who came to Norway, it was not mainly families who came. These were asylum seekers from Afghanistan, Somalia, Eritrea, Iran and Iraq. So claiming that the result of caring for asylum-seekers in a better way than what we do today becomes a flood of new asylum-seekers is to play with numbers. At least it doesn't have root in reality. We wait and wait and wait for the child's big message to escape. It was notified over a year ago. In advance of that message Knut Storberget just said what was clarified, that two to three years in a child's life is a sea of time. It meant that very many of us hoped that this message would bring some new changes that could make us care for the asylum-seekers better than we do today. Before Christmas I asked the Minister of Justice a written question in which I asked them if they would relieve all the matters relating to long-term children until we have dealt with this big message. The answer was definitely no, which has also been repeated later. I fear that the message, based on the answer I received, and what has been stated later, will not contain much new. In 2007, Stortinget therefore adopted a new regulation, which Heikki Holmås has explained, where it is. states that the role of children in the treatment of asylum matters in relation to the State is to be stressed. It is about long-term asylum children, who are in Norway and who have not been able to return to Norway for various reasons. The concern of my Christian People's Party is that the practice has changed. It says in the Foreign Affairs Act that the best interests of children should be taken into account, and then it says that immigration-regulating considerations can be taken into account. The practice today is that you have turned this on your head. I have read several rejections from UNE where UNE so far admits that there is a basis for emphasising the best of children, but immigration-regulating considerations must nevertheless weigh more heavily. So once again we have a debate on paperless. We also had it a year ago in the wake of the Maria Amelie affair. There's nothing new. No changes have been made since that time. That's why we have the matter here again, and that's why we challenge the government again to look at the situation of the paperless in Norway – in terms of both the right to work, the right to health care and to be able to give more people stays on a humanitarian basis. We have to remember that many of the paperless people we are talking about have lived in Norway for many years. I've heard of paperless people who have lived here for 17 years. What are you going to send him back to? Other countries in Europe have done this. Norway is becoming a foreign country. Our response – the government’s response – has always been return, return, return, even if they have not been able to return them. The focus now has been on long-term asylum children. Me and the Christian People's Party share the Left's view on this matter. We need to have a better policy for the asylum-seekers, and we need to go back to the regulation adopted by the Stortinget in 2007, in which we again say clearly that the best interests of children are to be cared for – cannot, but must be cared for. I'm going to ask for the word again, because I wasn't finished at all. I take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in this matter, and I also warn that the Christian People's Party will support the Left's proposal...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1189	We will have to come back to that, but the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has brought up the proposals that he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1193	The reason why the Left is promoting the proposal for a new non-paper version could have been found by reading the beginning of the proposal. We are so gullible on behalf of democracy that we believe that the parties change when local politicians engage and stand in front of us to change politics. When you've taken this up in Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and a number of other places, you have to do something, and when all the parties in this room have gone for, I actually thought that it was going to change the politics of the parties. That is why we supported the proposal. It is possible that some people have less faith in their own party democracy, but I will never give in to the struggle for party democracy to work as well. We were voted down the last time, but I had therefore believed that the parties had changed their policies according to how the parties voted locally. That is why we supported this Amendment No 8. That also gave us the chance to look at another side of the matter with regard to the paperless. Remember, the issues we have up here today, both in the case of children, and in the case of paperless people, Norway is at an extreme point in the European immigration debate. This is how regularisation decisions have been taken in most European countries — yes, with right-wing populists in power they have realized that it has to be done. For example: the proposal for a three-year residence period for children to stay permanently: it is not the case that the immigration system in Sweden collapses if a civil government actually governs according to that principle, has it in its legislation and enforces it. This has not led to any floods of families with children who want to live in Sweden. No, that has not led to it, but it has led many children to have the opportunity to plan future statements based on it. I believe in SV's sincere commitment to this matter and do not regard them as any enemy. Those who may have had the most double communication today are the Center Party, which, after the party leader's statement, I really don't understand and understand what this matter really means. So to the proposals that we have made today. We have submitted the full list of sandwiches, in the hope that some of the proposals can be supported – among others. to put matters in order until we receive the cancellation notice. In my naivety, I thought that big shots were being promoted because they wanted to change politics, not because they wanted to discuss a matter with Parliament. I thought that was the point of promoting groceries, and I'm still assuming that it's actually still like that. Having a temporary regulation is not what the Left originally wanted. We want the child law perspective to outweigh immigration regulatory considerations. We were incorporated in Norwegian law into the Children's Convention when we sat with the Minister of Justice, and we believe that the child law perspective must be much stronger in the law in this area than what we see. We proposed that the Foreign Affairs Act be treated, that residence in the kingdom should actually count. It was downhearted – now we see the consequences of it. Then I have to say a few words about health care – it is difficult when we only have 5 minutes. I think it is quite degrading to visit the health services we have for paperless people in Norway. The mood you get when you visit them is an atmosphere from a health system that I thought was far away from Norwegian. The legislation we now have means, among other things. that no one is properly provided with health care in the area of psychiatry or psychological assistance. I think it's scary that people don't get. They don't get that with today's legislation. That is what we want to implement with our proposal. In the case of children, I believe that children should be fixed as everyone else – no matter what stay they have. I would like to promote the proposals we have put forward in the Chamber. I would like to ask for a momentary vote. Then I have to finish: in April 1915 in this room we adopted the Castberg children's elves. The Castberg Children's Act decided that you should never judge a child for what parents have done, sail if you think it's immoral and wrong. Castberg's spirit has definitely drifted out of this room, and there's not much left of it when we see that we still judge children – and have done it for generations. For many of these kids it's not those who have escaped, it's not the parents who have escaped, but it's the grandparents who have escaped from a country, but we still don't want to give them papers. We still have to judge them for the actions of grandparents!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1214	Then the representative Trine Skei Grande brought up the proposals she referred to. The proposals are numbered from 5 to 12 and are distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1217	Since the turn of the millennium, more than 135 000 asylum seekers have come to Norway. With the exception of those who have arrived very recently and have not yet received their cases, all of these have received a thorough evaluation of their asylum applications under Norwegian law and international conventions. Those in need of protection, or where there are particularly strong humanitarian reasons to stay, have received a residence permit. But some have also received a rejection. Some people think that this assessment is too strict, others think it is too strict. That tells us that between 40 pst and 40 pst. and 50 pst. of applicants for asylum in Norway. Few countries have as high a percentage of approval as Norway. But what we are actually discussing now is: what are we going to do with those who do not need protection, who have been denied protection, who are obliged to leave Norway? We offer them a generous return support if they travel on a voluntary basis. Last year 1812 asylum seekers voluntarily returned to their country of origin, and never did so many return voluntarily as last year. What do we do with those who don't go back voluntarily? What do we do with those who have been denied and who have not provided anything to prove their identity or nationality? Some have provided different identities in different European countries. What do we do with those who are unable to send the Norwegian police back, for example. because their country of origin will only accept those who come back voluntarily? Should we say that you stay in Norway just because you've been here for some time? Should this apply only to families with children, if any? I mention this to illustrate what difficult dilemmas we have to deal with. I really want to warn against rubbing with that commitment for people who many have where people have a difficult life situation, and it's very easy to understand that many are susceptible to the individual issues. However, this government, like the former governments, has to deal with the whole. This is a problem for all governments over the past 25 years. Therefore, families with children have also been sent back with coercion every year in these 25 years. Sometimes different governments have changed the rules of the game in order for a defined group to remain in Norway — a form of amnesty. This occurred during these Councils in 1993, as in 1997, 2004 and 2007. Have we learned anything from this? Yes, I think we have to admit that we've learned that ad hoc solutions can solve some problems here and now, but we've also learned that it creates even more. Ad hoc solutions create expectations that if my case is not resolved now, I'll be waiting for the next amnesty. It also creates a picture that Norwegian asylum policy is ad hoc and not consistent – an image that even if you are refused, it is still possible for you to stay. This may in turn lead to Norway being perceived as an attractive country to seek asylum, including for those who do not need protection. The experience of the last 15 years is very clear. Some believe that the problem of ‘long-term children’ is solved if matters are dealt with more quickly. I don't think so. Today it takes half to two years from application to final rejection. The matter was then assessed three times – twice in the Foreign Affairs Directorate and once in the Foreign Affairs Department. Procedure time is important, and I hope and believe that we will reduce this time. But will faster rejection lead to more people choosing a voluntary return if they know that after three years they will receive a residence permit? There has been a call for matters to be put to rest and re-assessed. Let me then underline what should be known, but which obviously is not: everyone who has a final rejection can promote a desire for transformation. A lot of people do it, and a lot of people do it several times. In very many cases, the basis of residence has been assessed six times and seven times, and sometimes more. As I've said several times lately, I'm open to discussing adjustments. I see arguments for adjusting today's legislation, but there are also good arguments against doing so. I would like to warn against a rule that after a certain time in Norway everyone gets a residence permit. The government has announced that we will send a message about children on the run before the summer break, and this is on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1240	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1243	It's essentially a proposal from the left that makes me take the line. I want to ask a question to the Council of State, because it's interesting what the government thinks. The starting point is proposal No. 9 from the left. My question is this: What does the Council of State mean — I repeat, what does the Council of State mean — by the concept of ‘immigration-regulating considerations’?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1250	It is carefully assessed on an individual basis whether there is a basis for protection and therefore residence in Norway. There may also be humanitarian reasons for staying. We have also talked about the importance of taking into account the situation of children in this assessment. And so it is that what may require a refusal may be considered in, as I mentioned, a lack of information about identity and nationality. It could be false evidence. It may also be an avoidance of maintaining a dwelling or a place of residence and of acting in a hidden place. There may also be other offences against the Foreign Affairs Act or the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1255	Many, or all, of the matters we are now discussing are due to very much lengthy proceedings and in addition to the non-compliance with legal decisions. In December 2010, Øystein Mæland presented a NOU on more effective proceedings in the foreign administration. It was out at the hearing — at least in the autumn, and the question is: Is it working — in parallel to this — to put in place a more effective procedure? As the government itself pointed out, there are often six and seven treatment cases, and the time it takes to deal with this makes children and others part of the Norwegian community. The last question concerns people who have actually cooperated on returns, and who then have a right to work while waiting for it. Does the Council have an overview of how many of these are involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1264	It is true that the decision of the Mæland Committee has been at the hearing, and of course we are working on its follow-up in the department. However, in relation to the issue we are dealing with today, what is absolutely central is ensuring good and thorough individual treatment, ensuring that matters are dealt with effectively in both UDI and UNE. A lot of good work has been done here to reduce the processing time. Then there are, of course, heavy obligations on us to ensure that the basis for return is present. We also need to open up requests for conversion, as international conventions and commitments indicate. I'm afraid that we'll still be sitting on some of the same challenges, but I hope we get to a as smooth solution as the one we have today. The aim is, of course, to provide protection to those who need it and to ensure that the return framework is as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1271	The Norwegian authorities have now concluded a return agreement with Ethiopia, a regime in which the development of human rights has gone from bad to worse. We also know that in other countries, including Norway, the Ethiopian authorities have used considerable resources to keep their own surveillance. On March 15th, the government opened the door to force the return of Ethiopian refugees to Ethiopia. Can the Minister of Justice guarantee that people who are forced to return to Ethiopia will not be subjected to persecution, imprisonment and torture?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1278	It's true that we've got a return agreement with Ethiopia, and it's now running as intended. It is also true that it has now accounted for something more than 50 people for voluntary assisted return, and it also provides a good basis for restoring their lives in the country they come from. We have return agreements with countries where the situation is by no means like it should be. We've talked about the Ethiopian regime before. Our aim is to ensure that these return agreements work as intended. So it's still like this, as I've also said, that we have limited opportunities to follow up the situation after returning home. Of course, the Norwegian authorities do not have the power to take action on foreign land, nor do we see who would then have done such a task in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1285	The proposals made today by the Left are the laws and regulations of the bourgeois government in Sweden. But the Labour Party is on the extreme right wing, European, in a number of areas of immigration policy – or to quote Arne Strand in the Newspaper: ‘Ap has, on the other hand, been driven to the right by Frp’s rhetoric and games of people’s fear of immigration. As Frp grew on the polls and did well in the elections, Ap has not only changed rhetoric but also politics. The result has been that the Ap has ended up on the right of the Right in asylum policy. The working party has pulled the red-green government far over to the right side.’ How does it feel to be Minister of Justice and to manage a policy that puts Norway beyond the extreme right wing of European immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1296	I assume that the representative, Skei Grande, has gone back and analyzed what progress was in the years when the Left put in government. During the Bondevik I government, the figures increased radically from 1997 to 2002. We had the highest number ever in 2002, close to 17,500. Then the government in which the Left was involved tightened in. If we also look at how the time window that was opened for children in the autumn of 2004 worked – in my opinion, fundamentally unfair – I would warn against believing that you are sitting with a façade on both the fence posts and how it is possible in a fair way to practice an asylum and immigration policy where you are moving the posts by date. I am not saying that this area is easy to manage, but we owe not least to the children to find good, robust, durable solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1303	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1308	A year ago, the Municipal Committee visited a center for orphans in the Shatila refugee camp in Beirut. We met children born as fourth-generation refugees: stateless, without belonging to the society in which they grow up, given the UN's relief work and without real opportunity to settle in a new country. The children had painted a Norwegian flag on one cheek and a Palestinian on the other, and wished us a welcome in Norwegian. The need and desperation made an impression. When discussing asylum policy today, it is important to remember that these are people – about the people we see, but also about the people we do not see. The children of Shatila are among the millions of refugees in the world we usually don't see. All those at risk of persecution, torture or inhuman treatment are entitled to stay in Norway. Of the 9000 people who applied for asylum last year, about half-life. We have reason to be proud that we are among the countries of Europe that provide protection for the most in relation to the population. UDI and UNE take decisions following a sound, thorough and individual assessment, based on the rules of the Stortinget. A decision may appear rigid, even almost incomprehensible, when, for example: a sympathetic family is refused. But no matter how the rules are designed, a few will get no and a few yes. The proposal for a so-called'regulatory regime' was not supported by the municipal committee, that is good. What are we going to do with legislation if we say at regular intervals that we can't live with the consequences? What are we going to do with professional authorities if we systematically set aside the assessments? And why have individual assessments as to whether they can be set aside for those who do not like the conclusion? We are being attacked today by the Progress Party not to be consistent enough, from the Left to be too right-wing, and from the Right because the government parties are allegedly cracking. It is difficult to imagine how these three parties will come together on an asylum policy. The government has notified the child-breeding news about refugees. The debate is going, and in the Labour Party we see arguments for adjustments. At the same time, there are good arguments against adjustments. However, we fully agree that the concern for children must weigh heavily. It can't be entirely decisive. In that case, we will create a regulatory framework whereby adults who stay long enough in Norway in breach of decisions will be allowed to stay if they have or have children. No one deserves it. What appears to be humane and fair in the short term may prove to be the true opposite in the longer term. Rules can and must be discussed. What cannot be the subject of the discussion is whether we should have rules or whether to follow rules. A yes to stay is a yes, but a no must also be a no – so easy and so difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1331	I thank the Council of State for an excellent article, which actually points to what more people should be concerned about: looking at the piece of history. In the last article, you were in the middle of it. What appears to be basically humane, what is referred to as a humane immigration and integration policy, has failed. That is exactly what is being discussed here today: the result of an immigration and integration policy on which the Bondevik I Government and Minister of Justice Aure of the Christian People's Party were founded. Here the whole opening began with a view to showing the world a picture that Norway had opened the doors to asylum and immigration, culminating in a record in 2002, with almost 18 000 asylum seekers. That is what has actually been discovered now, that this policy has simply not been humane, but inhumane. It is therefore very understandable that many people are now responding to the fact that children are placed in such a situation by the majority in this room that it is directly inhumane. In order to correct this inhumane policy that the majority in this Chamber has stood for, the question is, Should you start giving amnesty? As the Council of State noted, it has been tried in several contexts, in 1993, in 1997, in 2004 and 2007, and there are no results in reducing the asylum flow to Norway. Still, there's a lot of inflow. The undersigned – and the Judicial Committee – were in Germany last week. From the asylum authorities at the airport where we received information that large groups of asylum seekers such as the country in Frankfurt were targeting Norway. That's the overall picture of Norwegian immigration and integration policy, too, in the future, in order to reduce that image of us being so humane, and that we're so clever that we give over 50 pst. stay in Norway. That is what draws asylum seekers here and puts children in such a situation, unfortunately. I suspect no one to have anything other than an engagement for children, it should all have. But I record that SV's commitment to children here does not count as much, when SV takes hers on the agency directive, the data storage directive, the postal directive and the distribution of letters below 50 grams, for example. Then you take this one's, but you can't do that in this case, which was almost supposed to confirm that SV was so concerned about the children's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1340	I suggested in my first post that there was a certain division within the government parties, as there was only one comment, namely that the government's policy is firm, that the Soria Moria declaration is still there. After hearing the debate so far I must say that I am still sitting with the impression that there is a bit of a cracking staur. But I'm not going to hide – as Håkon Haugli says – that there are significant challenges also in the opposition to agreeing on the principles here. But now it's actually the government that rules, and it's the government that brings things forward for this hall. Now I really think that the biggest news we have received today is that the Minister of Justice has explicitly stated from this pulpit that the notification of children on the run comes before the summer vacation. So we discussed a matter from the Left 29th of March last year, and then – I kept saying – the main line of defence for the government parties was that yes, there will soon be a message about children on the run. Soon a year has passed, a new Document 8 proposal has been presented, and we are now getting at least a confirmation of this. Now I've heard government councils say from this pulpit that it's coming before vacation. Navarsette sometimes did this about the state and local government communication. It came one year later. But I hope the Minister of Justice is more of a vocabulary. So it was Lise Christoffersen who thought that Trond Helleland and Erna Solberg disagreed, so that there was also division in the Right. No, not at all, we've both said that we assume that all matters in which children are involved are dealt with individually, that emphasis is placed on the provision which says that special consideration should be given to children's connection with the realm, and if such an assessment is not made, the foreign student must of course make a new assessment. Of course. As I said, with regard to the Left's proposals that have been put forward today – as I was going to say in a petition – Right-wing support for proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox I think that may also be necessary after hearing the Minister of Justice. Of course, it is a little difficult to answer what are ‘immigration regulatory considerations’ in a 1-minute reply, but it could be useful for the Stortinget to get it more concrete, for example. then in the big news about children on the run. Right doesn't want to give a general amnesty, we don't want to introduce a fixed-term stay, or that you get to stay if you've been sitting long enough. We want a more effective procedure. The most inhumane thing is to let people sit in reception, or that they sit without wanting to go home again for years, because they're waiting for the Storting to finally intervene and give amnesty. It's inhuman politics, and I hope this room doesn't go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1353	Norway is the world’s best country to live in. Who won't let their children grow up here? We as parents want everything good for our children, and in Norway we have the opportunity to do so. Here we have kindergarten, school, higher education and opportunities for a future with work and family. Today we're going to be five million Nordics, and we have room for more. I was with the representative Håkon Haugli and the rest of the committee and visited refugee camps in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. I've seen how awkward they are, and it's a very small hope for the future when you're a six-year-old girl and is a fourth-generation refugee in the Shatila refugee camp in Beirut. I therefore want Norway to try to accept more quota refugees than around 1 100 that we are accepting today. People come to Norway and seek asylum. Those entitled to protection shall be allowed residence. Those who do not fear their lives in the home countries or who do not meet the conditions for a humanitarian stay must return home. That is the way it is, and that must be in order not to undermine the institution of asylum and those who really need our protection. It is very important that asylum seekers in Norway receive prompt – but good – treatment. This is particularly true in cases where children are involved. Of course, if UDI is to be given a quick procedure, it is a plus that asylum seekers are helpful in documenting who they are. Unfortunately, it is not always the case that applicants for asylum do, or have ID papers. This, of course, prolongs the procedure. The government therefore has the job of building a unit to help the country establish the ID of asylum seekers and verify documents in the case, the National Identity and Documentation Centre. This is a concrete measure that will improve legal certainty and help to speed up the process. Now, the big news about children is on the move to the Storting, and then it's important that we politicians look at the whole picture, take on board ourselves and stress that asylum policy should have children's situation as one of its main points, that the best interests of children should be given attention, and that we get a policy that is over time, because what has been referred from the pulpit here the previous times it has been given amnesty, is that it does not help the children who haven't come to Norway yet. We can have a situation where hundreds of children are in reception and do not have a good future, and that the matter is not settled. When we get the big message for treatment here, we have to work on facilitating the best care of children in the field of asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1364	We in the Center Party have had an involvement in this kind of thing for many, many years. In 2004, the former LGBT representative Rune Kjellaaen and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa promoted a proposal, together with two representatives from SV, to introduce an amnesty for children who had been in Norway for more than three years. It was then raised in the debate that this was going to be a one-off case, that one would afterwards clean up so that there would be no similar cases again. Unfortunately, history has shown us that similar cases have occurred again. So Bjørg Tørersdal and Jon Lilletun promoted a document no. Eight proposals for the autumn of 2005. I was so lucky to be the case rapporteur under the authority of the committee. We discussed the matter on 14 June 2006 here in the Chamber. What was then the intention of the great majority – a broad majority who also involved the Christian People's Party and the Left – was that we make a permanent change, contrary to what happened in 2004, which was a one-time change for the children who had been rejected before 1 July 2003. But in 2006 we wanted to make a lasting change that would stand forward. The government responded with its regulatory change in July 2007. Thanks to the change that happened then, I received – if I do not remember completely wrong – 900 people stay. And that change is still standing. It is a permanent change, and that is what we must do in the field of asylum policy – a predictable and sustainable policy that we are adjusting. That is what we did in 2007, and we, the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, also weakened the requirements for humanitarian residence from 'particularly strong human interests' to'strong human interests'. I'm very pleased with what we did. So we were going to take stronger care of children, and we wanted to have a permanent change. We also made two, three other amendments to that regulation with the background in Document No. The 8th proposal. That is why the Central Party is sceptical about the proposal that exists today from the Left that we should have a general rule of three years. We believe that such a type of three-year rule would be too random. We believe that we need a strong and good law that captures the situation of children in the law, and we did so in regulatory changes, and we did so in the proposal for a new foreign law in the previous period. If you see that there are things in today's law that you're not satisfied with, then you have to adjust it, tighten it up, but we don't want a three-year rule, because we're afraid that it gives you the wrong incentive, and that there will be more children in reception over time, not fewer children in reception. We believe that the changes we were at the forefront of the past period were of benefit to families with children, and that it guaranteed children's rights better than what was the situation before we took over. One of the most pleasant things about the last time we had the debate, in 2006, is that the procedure has fallen so much. A key point then was to speed up the process, to strengthen the legal protection of children and also to speed up the residence of children in reception and, of course, to speed up their return.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1375	Let me first express my understanding of the commitment to these matters. Yes, it may be difficult to enforce the law when each case is presented as a hardhearted act against children. Norway is similar to other countries committed by international law to helping people who need protection from persecution in their home country. Unfortunately, too many people are forced to flee the world today. Globally, it is estimated that over 200 million are considered migrants. We are living gradually in a time of less conflict and more peaceful times, and there should therefore be hope that the number of refugees will fall, and that as many countries as possible will develop more stable conditions and democracy for all the peoples of the world. I am sure that the government will conduct a consistent, fair and legal refugee and asylum policy. Norway is given the best shots by UNCHR for the treatment of asylum cases. Norway, unlike many other countries, uses both resources and expertise to enforce a law that allows the use of judgement. All issues involving children have been assessed, and no grounds have been found for providing protection to them after an overall assessment. The fact that asylum seekers have or have children is not a reason for their residence. Asylum is provided in the light of the need for protection. All matters are tested and assessed on the basis of these conditions. Norway stayed at 52 pst last year. of the 9,053 who sought and claimed the need for protection. It is challenging to record that many do not travel after having received a final rejection. Many refer to them as ‘paperless’, but it is not a correct concept, because they are not without papers. All those who have received their applications and appeals treated with negative results are obliged to return home, even if they do not want to. Therefore, today's opposition's proposals are inconsistent with all the time they undermine the enforcement of Norwegian law, adopted in this Chamber. It is a little strange to me to record that the spokesperson of the Progress Party, Morten Ørsal Johansen, is waving back and forth in these questions in various media plays. Today's asylum policy must not be undermined by requiring even more rounds to deal with these issues. I am pleased that the government has given priority to the return policy and has helped many people to re-establish themselves in their own countries with good support arrangements. Only now a whole 28 return agreements have been put in place, and many travel on a voluntary basis, which is very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1388	First of all, a small shift in the posts of the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, expressing his satisfaction with the changes made in 2007, clarifying that the best interests of the child should be taken care of. Yes, in fact, the law is good! The law is good. What was adopted in 2007 is good. The problem is that the practice followed is not according to what was adopted in the 2007 Stortingen. And when the government doesn't do anything about the practice, it's no wonder that we have the debates we have, and that there are such proposals that we are dealing with today. The law is basically good, but practice has changed. This is a concern that the Christian People's Party has had for a long time. In his speech, the Minister of Justice said that she could be open to adjustments. It's maybe the first positive signal that's come so far both in the public vocabulary, in the media debate out there, and here. It gives hope that there may be some adjustments that make us care for children in a better way than what we do today. Nevertheless, my question remains: why in all the world's kingdom can't we put matters at risk when it comes to long-term children, until we've dealt with the child-breeding notification and looked at what kind of adjustments the Minister of Justice might think? On my question about Ethiopia, if the Minister of Justice can guarantee that those who are forced to return to Ethiopia will not be subjected to persecution, imprisonment and torture, she answers that Norwegian authorities have little opportunity to conduct that kind of investigation on foreign soil. Yes, but this applies not only to Norwegian authorities — even human rights organisations in Ethiopia start to wear off. That's what we're going to take over once we've concluded a return agreement with a regime, which I said instead, where the development of human rights has gone from bad to worse. To the Left's suggestion: I said in my previous post that we are going to support them. I see the problem of setting three years as a kind of magical limit – it can actually be children who are well integrated, who have been here for less than three years – but I see the need for us to put our feet down and start somewhere, as we have done in Sweden. As far as health care is concerned, it is said to have been taken care of. Well – in the field of mental health protection, there are major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1401	Just a few comments. It is clear that I have been guilty of a misunderstanding about the situation in the Right. There's no division in the Right. It is not Erna Solberg who disagrees with Trond Helleland, but it is Erna Solberg who does not quite agree with himself. I read on the web just before I went into the hall that Erna Solberg fully agrees with Jens Stoltenberg on these questions. Then it's clear. In the case of the Christian People's Party – and I refer to the first post – there is talk here as if the best interests of children are not given any weight at all in these matters, and that is not true. This is how you first assess whether there is a basis for protection. If so, you will be allowed to stay, and the matter is far from right. Then there are those issues where you don't need protection, but where, despite a no, a new assessment is made to see if there is a basis for stay based on strong human considerations. Then the best – and so is – of the child should be a fundamental principle of treatment. It takes into account the age of the child, the duration of the child in Norway, taking into account language, culture, whether it is a child that is particularly vulnerable, e.g. Disability, the length of time since the child has been in his or her home country or in the home country of his or her parents — if the child concerned has been there at all — and, therefore, emphasis can be placed on immigration policy considerations. The question then is whether a yes in the specific case could lead – on the basis of the principle of equality – to more people becoming or to more coming. If yes to that question, it can to some extent trump the questions asked, based on the best of the children, in the first round – it can. There are reasons for immigration policy. What it is is otherwise described quite well in Ot.prp. No 75 for 2006–2007, so you can read about that. It is that more adults with children than adults without children are allowed to stay on the basis of strong human considerations. That means that the best weight is given to children. However, it may be difficult to read the weighting between the different considerations of individual matters. The notification will therefore respond to how the Storting's assumptions about increasing the emphasis on children's best interests have been met after the entry into force of a new foreign law. I feel at least – with my knowledge of these matters – that I am not quite able to answer that question, and then I wonder how the Christian People's Party can be so sure that it has gone the other way. I see that the time is running out for this three-minute post. I'll draw myself a one-minute post, because I have a question for the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1415	The Minister of Justice has announced that the notification of children on the run will come to summer. In the debate, the Minister of Justice has refused to raise issues pending this communication. She has left the impression that this is not necessary because it is not possible to expect major policy changes. I would like to remind you that the last time there was any change in the policy in this area, in which the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, was involved, it happened here in Stortinget. We had the red-green majority government, but it was in Stortinget, in cooperation between the Christian People's Party, the government parties and the Left, agreed on what is now the Foreign Affairs Act with regulations, and demands that, when assessing strong human interests, an independent treatment based on the best of children should be carried out. Residence can be provided if the child has developed a strong connection to the rich due to long residence. I think it is wise for the Minister of Justice to keep the opportunities open, even though the government may not have plans to adjust the policy, that the Stortingeten wants to deal with the notification and relate to the information provided by the government, and discuss whether there is a need to intensify the policy adopted by a majority in the Grand Duchy. It's the Grand Council's sovereigns right, and that's why you can't advance the treatment here in the Grand Council, if the Council of State has in any way had an intention of doing so. I hope that wasn't the case. It was the representative Jon Lilletun who, together with Bjørg Tørresdal, raised this matter – one of the last he traveled – in Stortingen, and it is very important for the Christian People's Party that this policy is implemented in practice. When we are in doubt about this, it is because there are many examples that children with long residences and strong ties to the kingdom are not allowed to become. The system state of this picture gives the government the full opportunity to present the Size of this message. Then Stortinget will have to answer the main question that lies here. What is absolutely crucial for the Christian People's Party is that we stand by the obligations of Norway – in its own legislation – in the UN Convention on the Rights of Children. Living with a long-standing, unsolved situation affects children and young people strongly. Children in reception are deprived of the opportunity to have a childhood when the asylum process takes a long time. We must ensure that this is not allowed to continue, despite the policy change undertaken by the Stortinget in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1429	There has been a good debate, which has highlighted the matter on several different points. I just thought I'd clarify some of it that everyone who's on a law-enforced asylum policy believes should be fundamental principles. One is that all people have the right to deal with their asylum application. It should be that people who are allowed to stay are given the opportunity to live and live in a municipality. People who are refused shall return home, either voluntarily or through return to the Norwegian authorities. It is quite right that one of the things that has been very positive lately has been that we have been through several people travelling from Norway, either by sending them out, or – preferably – by travelling voluntarily. We have – as the Minister of Justice was at the point – said very clearly that we have had a positive development here. The second is that we have a quick processing time. Everybody makes a living on that. It is in the interests of both children and adults that those who are refused, and who are to be refused, are promptly refused or refused. Having applied for protection in a country and experiencing being seated for a long time is in any case the loss of time in a person's life. And there are many people who have lost a lot of time. We have also ensured that we have had faster processing times in this area. The last one concerns children. It is a fundamental principle that we have, which applies both to the Children's Convention and to what the Stortinget decided, and which was laid down in the Foreign Affairs Act, namely that children should not be held responsible for the choice of their parents. These are the children we as a state should take into account – we should take into account the children. The best interests of the child must be of fundamental importance. We'll take that into account when we have child protection issues. Parents make many wrong choices. Nevertheless, we say that then we intervene as a state and take care to take the most care of the children. That's what we have to do in the cases where parents choose not to return to the country and we as Norwegian state are not able to send them out. This has long been true of countries like Ethiopia, but also of countries like Eritrea, which are considered one of the worst dictatorships in the world. We don't get to send adults there. So we don't get returned people, and it creates a situation where families of children stay here for a long time. Then we can say that we want the parents to leave, and I mean that – we say that, says the Norwegian state – and then they're going out. But when they don't, at some point the child's consideration has to be heavier than the parents making crazy choices. That is what we are discussing here today. As the Minister of Justice says, we owe these children a good, robust and lasting solution. I fully agree with that. Finally, I just want to say to Per Sandberg, who wants us to take this one's: taking this one's is to let go of having your hand on the wheel. If we were to do that, we would have had as little political influence as the Progress Party. And we don't intend to have that in SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1442	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1445	The representative Lise Christoffersen asked questions about how the Christian People's Party could know that children's interests are not being cared for. Well, by reading more rejections of asylum applications involving long-term children, and by listening to organisations working in this field, the impression I have is that the best of children is not being cared for, as required by the 2007 law. Several rejections are like this. The foreign student then assumes that the children have developed a connection with the rich, which must be given particular attention when assessing whether the family can be granted a residence permit. However, the Committee notes that the crucial importance of Immigrant Regulatory Reasons in this case must be given to this issue. This is not a single decision, this has almost become a review tone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1452	Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1455	That's exactly what the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold brings up here, which is so important to get documented knowledge about, and not just have a sense of. This is a little bit too important to just rely on what you have a sense of, are the realities. But this was really to the Left – I did not get an answer to the question of what is going to happen to those who do not get through the Left’s transition window. Since I did not get an answer to this question, I have another question: When the Left proposes that all child stuff over three years of age should be put to rest, how many of these children should actually become? In the opinion of the Left, everyone should be allowed to stay. If not, what should somehow be the criterion for someone to stay, and others not? Isn't it a concern to create new hopes in people another year, another six months – to say no, you can't stay here anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1462	I am committed to finding that the child's concern is obviously heavy, but unfortunately it is not such that it is always essential. When I heard the reference to the Bondevik Governments, I wanted to say that after the year with the highest number of arrivals, about 17 400, we could see the year after that it was only 27 pst. of the cases that granted the grant, the year thereafter 29 p.m. That means there was a whole 8,564 who got a discount that same year. The child's share has been pretty constant, which is 30 pst. So the reality is that with an approval rate of now 52 and the previous year of between 40 and 50, the situation may still be that there are actually more children now staying in Norway. The foreign regulation was amended with lasting effect in the spring of 2007. That's the one that still applies. The basic thing is to ensure protection for those who need it, to ensure that those who have humanitarian reasons for stay also get it. And then that's the dilemma we have when we don't give shelter to everyone: how do we best deal with this difficult issue in order to ensure equal treatment, justice and predictability, which may also be one of the most important things not to put up with temptations we can't deliver to the many who would want for themselves and their families a better life, and perhaps therefore also apply for a stay in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1469	When we dealt with the matter in 2008, the Left expressed concern that the legislation that was adopted then was only cosmetic and would not have the consequences that were talked up in this Chamber. It turned out we got it right. What concerns me in this debate is the delicate relationship you have with the use of numbers. On TV2.no, NOAS says of the Prime Minister’s presentation of figures that he is ‘playing numbers without Empire’. There is no basis in the figures to get a wave if you implement the changes we have proposed. As the UN Director said in the Evening Post this weekend, there is no reason to believe that someone has children to become. The waves you've had, and as the Council of State pointed out, are as misleading as it seems. The first wave that came when we were in government was Eastern Europeans, who were going out in 24 hours. We introduced 24 hours of trial and tent camp and straight back and forth. It was the wave that came. The second wave you're talking about is because it's war in the world. When Somalis came, Iraqis came when Afghans came. It's because of the waves of war. It is possible that this hall has a slightly distorted view of how important you are in relation to the consequences it gets around the world of what you decide. But it's actually that war is the biggest reason people get on the run. It's possible it's a big surprise for this hall, but that's actually the way it is. Then to the transition window. We want a comprehensive regulation – we want a regulation that applies to everyone. It's UNE that decides who's going in, and who's going out, not us. But we want the child-care profession to be given greater weight. That's what we've been tuned down over and over again in this room. We want rules that apply to everyone. We don't want to do what the government did in the Maria Amelie case, when there was a lot of pressure out there, there was one person who had a lot of attention -- then you change the rules that apply to four-five or maybe six. We want rules that apply to everyone, not to individuals who are mass ahead in the media. We want the same rules that you have in Sweden, where the bourgeois government implements exactly what we want. It has not led to any wave; there is no empirical basis for claiming it. Perhaps what I am most disappointed in in the debate as it is today is the Central Party's big group, which has obviously stabbed its party leader in the back. Here I think the party leader should have been right when she has said that matters should wait until you get the new legislation. I still hope that the Storing Message will pay for some changes. If I do not believe that the government is customsing with Parliament. Governments shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1482	[15:58.06]: Let me first say to the representative Skei Grande that I disagree with Strand in the Newspaper when he concludes that the Workers' Party has attached itself almost to the right of the Advance Party in terms of immigration and integration policy. That's where I think the Workers' Party has a long way to go. It also reflects a little bit of the debate. For there is a certain difference between all the other parties and the Progress Party in these kinds of debates. When you say that you either want amnesty or want permanent changes, the result is the same no matter what decision you take: you reduce and weaken the institution of asylum so that more people can stay. And when more people are staying and the asylum institute – the Norwegian asylum institute – is weakened, it must not be believed in this house that it is not a signal to all those people who are on the run for various reasons around the world, and thereby there will be even more pressure on Norwegian borders to get asylum. So no matter what you fall on, in my opinion and my experience in this house, it will weaken the institution of asylum, so that more people can stay in Norway. That's what's one of the big challenges whether we're talking about children or we're talking about other groups. It's inhumane that 3,800 children live at reception. It is inhumane that, by 31 December, almost 16 000 people live in Norwegian asylum centres. It is also completely irresponsible that we have 18 000 people staying here illegally. But then there may have to be some concessions from those who have had political will for it and a wish that so be it. It is therefore the case that the large majority in this Chamber have been united on the overarching lines of Norwegian asylum and integration policy. Then it's strange that you disagree so much now, when you realize the realities and consequences of your own policy. That is only the reality. It was not my intention to provoke Heikki Holmås. I think 100 pst. on Heikki Holmås’ and SV’s engagement, but it would be all the worse, and we would have had bigger challenges and even more children in this situation if SV’s immigration policy had been adopted in its entirety. The point is we have to stop giving more and more false hopes that at some point they will be allowed to live in this country. That's what's going to be the big challenges, and so maybe there should be a few more concessions than what's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1495	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, became eager in his post and made various accusations. There is no doubt that the Centre Party has had a long line in the issue of the situation of children in Norwegian foreign administration – we have a long history. It was the Center Party, along with SV, that was behind a Document No. Eight proposals in 2004, because we wanted to clean up. It was the intention of Stortinget that now we should clean up, now we should get ahead of the proceedings, now we should not get back into this kind of situation. But unfortunately, we did. The next time we had this type of big case for treatment in Stortinget, we had learned that giving one-sided amnesty at some point was not a lasting, good solution. That is why we were concerned – when I got the case leadership for this case that Bjørg Tørresdal and Jon Lilletun promoted – to make a permanent change in foreign policy that would create predictability for families with children and non-discrimination. Left – if we go back to the debate on the change we made in the foreign policy – we were fully behind that setting. It was André N. Skelstad who had the floor for the Left in that debate, and he backed up on the changes that were then made. That change is still standing. So we have to be able to discuss here in the main hall: are there any adjustments now? Are there any arguments that speak for it today? Are there arguments that speak against it? We have to go into that debate, because this is an area that is so important that we must constantly discuss previously adopted policies such as the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which have brought about a lasting change. The experience gained in 2004 is the reason why we are not voting in favour of the proposal for the Left today to make a general rule: if you have been here for three years, you have to stay. We believe that it is too random, and that the experience from 2004 is not good. The experience from 2007 is much better. We made lasting, predictable and good changes, and then we might have to discuss whether to make adjustments there. But we believe that the main line should be the one we let on when we discussed Document No. The 8th proposal by Lilletun and Tørresdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1511	The representative Heikki Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1515	I would like to address three points at the very end of the debate. One is the simple and slightly special thing about the fact that the Progress Party now calls for, as Per Sandberg does, that it is “inhumane” that there are 3,800 children living in receptions. It is ‘inhumane’ that there are 16 000 people living in receptions, and then he will jail them instead — by putting them in closed receptions. It's improperly special to listen to this. The second thing I want to say is that we have had a big and broad discussion in which many have argued that Norwegian asylum policy – the Progress Party has claimed that Norwegian asylum policy is at one end of the scale – is very open and very liberal. That's not right. If you go in and look at this in comparable countries – as the government says in the government statement that we want to do – sometimes we are on a slightly more liberal, or a little more humane line, while in other contexts we are stricter. Therefore, this is something we need to use as a policy, also to turn our policies into a more humane direction in some contexts. We believe that this is necessary in relation to children.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1522	The representative Per Sandberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1525	A brief note: All I want to say is that the representative Heikki Holmås has no basis in any way to claim that the Advance Party would want to jail anyone. That is an innocuous comment. The result would have been completely different if the Progress Party had been guided by Norwegian asylum and integration policies over the past ten years. We had not had more than 3000 children in Norwegian reception, and we had not had 16,000 people who had lived in Norwegian reception. Then they had probably been sent out, by more active proceedings etc. However, the fact that some asylum seekers should be in closed reception is a reality. There should certainly be a greater basis for that, as you do in the rest of Europe at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1534	The President cannot see that Heikki Holmås, after having had the word twice and received the floor for a brief comment, has access to several articles in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1537	Sandberg called my post ‘in substance’.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1542	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1545	I want the word of a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1550	The President has doubts that the clarification will contribute to this, but the regulation is that there are no more occasions after three speeches in the debate. I'm sure there's other possibilities. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1566	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1575	First, I have to make a complaint to the rapporteur, because in the vote, the right has joined the majority of the committee while we have joined in the comments on the Progress Party. It shall be such that we participate in the comments together with the Progress Party and out of the comments of the majority of the Committee. It also makes the matter appear a little clearer on the paper. The rapporteur has taken the criticism, and regrets it very much! The case concerns the law prohibiting foreigners from fishing, etc. in the territorial waters of Norway. As a claimed principle, the right to fish initially belongs to the coastal population and therefore has been regulated up to an amicable regime in different ways. For example, use is made of: the law of participants, other laws are used to ensure this right. That's how it is today that 50 pst. the crew shall be resident in a coastal municipality or a neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality. The proposers are of the opinion that today’s legal provision discriminates against Norwegian citizens, as it can actually be thought that one from Røros could see the opportunity to become a fisherman and have the rights that are desirable. Therefore, a review of the law is requested in order not to discriminate against Norwegian citizens, while keeping a sharp eye on the need not to weaken the nationality requirement for fishing quotas. That's the short introduction, and then I assume that the Progress Party will take us through the whole case, since it's the ones behind the proposal. I refer to the proposal promoted by the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1586	The rapporteur's contribution to self-criticism was then noted, and the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has promoted the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1589	I really didn't intend to take the word in this case. Now it was very tidy by the representative Bakke-Jensen to clarify what I was really going to ask about, because I had not realized that it was the way it was in the case. So I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1594	The background to the proposal to ask the government to consider changing the premises related to the residence requirement is linked to enquiries, among other things. from the industry itself. In fact, today’s legislation imposes stricter requirements on which municipality you live in Norway than on whether you come from abroad. The background is simple. In 2006, the law was amended to prohibit the fishing of foreigners in Norway etc. The question is whether to have a non-discrimination between Norwegians living in Norway or whether to allow foreigners to fish and work on Norwegian fishing boats. It is a little special that in Norway we have made regulations and laws that say that if you get more than 50 pst.-the proportion in the case of Norwegian crew on a fishing boat, and that is necessary, for example. a stunned and that limit is exceeded, so you can risk not being allowed to work on a Norwegian fishing boat if you are not resident in a coastal municipality. So if you come from an inland municipality in Norway, the requirements are different if you want to work on a fishing boat than if you live in any municipality along the coast or in a neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality. This is a remarkable Norwegian solution. In fact, me and the Progress Party believe that whether you live on the Hedmark or along the coast, you should have the same opportunities to get a job on a Norwegian fishing boat. You don't have that under today's law. However, what is special about this matter is, in so far as it is written by the majority of the Committee as a response to the proposal of the Progressive Party: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, should have stated ‘The Party of Foreign Affairs and the Right’ in the vote. refers to the fact that the proposal to reintroduce the nationality requirement will contribute to the restoration of this uncertainty;’;» i.e. related to whether or not one has rights to fish. It is quite remarkable, when there is no proposal at all, because the proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider proposing amendments to the law providing for equal treatment of Norwegian citizens’ rights and opportunities to work on Norwegian fishing vessels. [[...]] This shall be without prejudice to the nationality requirement for fish quotas.’;» So we refer to today's system that it should not be weakened, but it takes time to write notes on the basis of the reintroduction of the nationality requirement. That proposal has not been promoted. I'm very excited to hear the statements of the Council of State here, because the Council of State does exactly the same in its letter to the Committee. One hangs in and refers to the reintroduction of the nationality requirement. No, in that case the government would have had to put forward proposals. For the proposal, the government is asked to consider making proposals, precisely so that every citizen in Norway should have the same right to take up work not only in all other sectors to which he is qualified but also in the fisheries sector. It's a little special that the only place you can't get a job even if you're qualified – if you don't notice on application, you can get a dispensation – is on a fishing boat. So in the ultimate sense, it can be a disqualification not to be living in a coastal municipality if you're thinking about getting a job on a fishing boat. However, the present proposal is nothing more than to ask the government to assess whether there is a possibility of setting up a system that treats Norwegian citizens in a non-discriminatory manner. So you're not interested in that. It's very special.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1620	The residence requirement is a fishing policy instrument that helps to ensure a central fisheries policy objective, namely that the wild marine resources are to benefit the coastal population of Norway. This is consistent with the objectives of the Marine Resource Act and the Participation Act, both of which talk about securing settlement and jobs in coastal districts, with slightly different words. The residence requirement implies that the master and at least half of the crew of Norwegian fishing vessels must be resident in a Norwegian coastal municipality or neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality. An exemption may then be granted on application to masters residing elsewhere in Norway, in other EEA territory, or in those parts of the Nordic region not covered by the EEA. The applicable residence requirements were introduced in 2006. In the past, a requirement was made for masters and at least half of the crew of Norwegian fishing boats to be either Norwegian nationals or residents of Norway. The amendment in 2006 helped to eliminate the uncertainty relating to whether Norway fulfilled its obligations under the EEA Agreement. A unanimous nutrition committee expressed its views, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is widely agreed that fishing resources should primarily benefit the coastal population. The Committee considers that the requirement of residence, as proposed by the Government, respects our fisheries policy objectives. The residence requirement also contributes to the protection of Norwegian fishermen’s rights. It also contributes to ensuring Norwegian conditions of pay and work for crews and fishermen.’ I have to say that I think the assessments of a Joint Nutrition Committee in 2006 are good today, but I note that the proposers now have a different opinion. I have to admit that it is a little difficult to understand what the representatives’ proposals – or what they propose for the government to propose – are all about. The representative proposal itself highlights an objective of non-discrimination between Norwegian citizens’ rights and the possibility of taking up work on Norwegian fishing vessels. In my letter to the nutrition committee, I understood this as a desire for Norwegian citizenship to be a relevant criterion. On the other hand, in the Committee's comments, the members of the Advance Party and the Right stress that the central issue is equality for Norwegian citizens. I will not spend more time discussing what the proposal for a representative is about, but I will point out that the proposal in any case involves a reversal of the 2006 amendment. At the time, we left both Norwegian nationality and residence in Norway as relevant criteria and replaced it with residence in coastal municipalities or neighbouring municipalities to coastal municipalities. It may be right, as stated in the proposal for a representative, that some fishing boat owners find it difficult to find qualified crews resident in coastal municipalities and neighbouring municipalities. My clear impression in that case is that there are crews living abroad that are the real option for these shipowners. In this way, the proposals of the representatives will not be helpful. The representatives’ proposals are unfortunate because they create uncertainty in relation to EEA law. The 2006 legislative amendment helped to remove the uncertainty that arose when ESA filed an action against the Norwegian authorities. It ended with ESA dropping the case against Norway, after the amendment of the law had been implemented. In the autumn, ESA received a new complaint from a Norwegian fishing boatowner claiming that the new residence requirement is contrary to EEA law and now assesses whether a new case should be opened against Norwegian authorities on the basis of the complaint. It would be unfortunate if the Norwegian authorities would work in parallel with this to reintroduce elements of the old rule. The representative proposal will both create greater uncertainty about current residence requirements and undermine the important work to ensure Norwegian salary and working conditions for crews on Norwegian fishing boats. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee will not support the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1652	My challenge to the Council of State is the following – and then I will take a case in its ultimate consequence: A fishing boat has met its quota in terms of this by 50 pst. by the crew. It is then sought abroad, or in Norway, to get a new one on board the boat. It turns out you get three applications. One application comes from a person on Hedmarken. Then there are two applications, one from Vigo in Spain and one from another coastal municipality in the EEA region. Then my question is to the Council of State: is it that for the Norwegian person a derogation must be sought, and that he or she may be refused, while the other two, who then come from abroad, will meet the requirements to be able to get a job on a Norwegian fishing boat without having to apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1659	Now it has not been a situation where I have got that problem on the table, but I assume that there will be no treatment here. If you live in a coastal municipality or neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality, you belong to one group, you are outside, you belong to another group, and you must have a derogation if you are to... President, when I think about it, it must be the opposite: You must have a derogation in order to obtain more foreigners than those who come from coastal municipalities or neighbouring municipalities to coastal municipalities. If you want to exceed that proportion, you must have a derogation in any case. I have to ensure this quality with the lawyers, but I assume that there is dispensation access equal to everyone, and non-discrimination also outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1666	Now we've just made it clear how this case stands, and how difficult and complicated this can actually be. What can be seen here is that the fisherman from Vigo lives in a coastal municipality. This would apply if the quota of 50 pst is exceeded. Then you can meet that problem, because it says 50 pst. of the crew shall either live in a coastal municipality or live in a neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality. The nationality requirement has been removed. That is to say, it is the EEA Regulation that enters into force, and this means that the fisherman from Vigo, if any, will come in front of the fisherman from e.g. Gjøvik. Can the Council of State confirm or cancel this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1674	I will honestly admit that now I was very in doubt. It is simply a legal question that I have to check with the lawyers. I have assumed that it is non-discrimination, and that coastal municipalities and neighbouring municipalities to coastal municipalities in this case are a Norwegian coastal municipality or Norwegian neighbouring municipality to a coastal municipality. Lawyers are nodding. Ergo is equal treatment, whether you're from Vigo or from Røros.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1679	There are things that suggest that you should have a review here. Now the Council of State in its letter to the Committee says that there has been a review of the provision. There has also been a consultation process that started in 2009. What I could imagine to hear with the Council of State about -- in the light of the process that has been, and the debate that we have had so far -- is when you think that the announced proposition can be addressed. Well, here it might be that you should get some new things in, and maybe it's urgent to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1686	I will honestly admit that this is not of the things I have had at the top of my desk, all the time I do not feel that there is a great cry from the industry to change this code. I think the industry sees exactly the same challenges as we see in EEA legislation. We're not going to have to treat ourselves like this – let's say – in a non-discriminatory manner so much that being a Norwegian fisherman doesn't mean anything. I'll warn you the most strongly against that. Having legislation that is EEA-compliant, I would like to place very high on the list. So, of course, I'd like to join in and discuss the challenges the fleet faces in terms of recruitment – getting people on board the boats. There, I think we're going to go a little farther to work than just looking at the place where people live. In the light of this, it may be possible for one to discuss such challenges in the context of a wholesale communication, or other. But as I said, we also need to make sure that we are EEA-compliant.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1695	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1700	I must say – after listening to the replies here – that something should happen. I hear the Minister for Fisheries say she hasn't noticed that there's a big demand from the industry for changes here. I have attended some meetings at the Fiskarlag, and I have also registered that there are claims from several states in this area. This is a rule that the fishermen and the sailors consider to be almost naughty. The fact that a cage in Norway and is so unfortunate not to live in a coastal municipality or a neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality means that one cannot get a job on a fishing boat, in my view – and after many fishermen and riders’ views – is almost entirely unlikely. I believed in my naivety that when this matter came up, there would be a great deal of agreement that this should be something a person should do about. So I hear the Minister for Fisheries say that they should make an assessment here, after the Minister for Fisheries has had to admit that she cannot answer questions – in my opinion, quite simply, at least according to what we in the countryside call too good a farmer's white. Then I hope that something can happen, because I know that at least those who are fishing in Sogn and Fjordane have a big problem getting skilled crews for their boats. I know that's the same problem in More and Romesdal. Then I thought that one should take this so seriously that one looks thoroughly through this problem and perhaps find out that there is a code here that makes it very difficult for those who have to sew to get a crew on the boats – without having to keep applying for a derogation. I think they have enough to do to ensure that they have a defensive operation on their boats, if they are not going to have to apply for a derogation for something that, in any case, I think is a silly rule. So I hope the Minister for Fisheries will come back with something that could mean that we're going to end this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1711	I need clarification from the Council of State. After the change of line we have just had here, I ask the Council of State to clarify whether persons living in a coastal municipality within the EEA territory are to be regarded as being equal to persons coming from a coastal municipality in Norway – simply because it is a matter of whether there are other rights attached to foreign citizens in a coastal municipality than to Norwegian citizens in an inland municipality. I was very uncertain here when I tried to get an answer from the Council of State in that field, because what is referred to in the law is whether to apply for a derogation when you get over 50 pst. Then it says the following: ‘However, upon application, a derogation may be granted from the residence requirement for masters residing elsewhere in Norway, in other EEA regions or in parts of the Nordic region not covered by the EEA territory’, i.e. in other EEA regions. I would like an explanation from the Council of State as to whether you are in the situation that citizens of a coastal municipality within the EEA actually have stronger rights than a person residing in a Norwegian inland municipality. I ask that this be clarified. If the Council of State can't clarify this now, so that we're sure of it, at least I'm asking that the Storting be properly informed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1725	I'm going to guarantee the quality of the answer, but what I'm doing is clarifying a passion with the experts sitting in the lodge, is that there is equal treatment for fishermen and crews outside what we call a coastal municipality and a neighbouring municipality to a coastal municipality. So, as I said in my answer – sorry that it was a little over and over: if you are in a coastal municipality or neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality, you are in the target. If you are outside, regardless of whether you are in Norway, i.e. in those municipalities that are not defined as coastal municipalities or neighbouring municipalities, or in Europe otherwise, in the EEA territory, there is equal treatment. So you do not have the advantage of living in a coastal municipality in Portugal. I'm going to make sure that I don't rotate it. What I can say right here and now is the way I say it. But I'll check it with the top lawyers in the field. If I am wrong, I must notify Stortinget in a suitable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1732	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Any corrective information must then be sent to the Stortinget and not just to the Committee – just to remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1748	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1757	This case has its background in a published proposal for a new regulation on aquaculture activity in Hardangerfjorden, a proposal which initially placed considerable restrictions on the operation of the area and created a lot of noise. It was also such that when the regulation had been consulted, the industry would like to make an impact assessment, which was not done considering what was the consequence of introducing the regulation on 1 January 2013. They said no, and they made a lot of noise. It created a lot of riots. The matter has received a lot of attention. There have been both written questions from the Right, and there is here a Document 8 proposal from the Progress Party on the occasion of the case. It was probably wise to give time for impact assessment, because the Council of State is now withdrawing the regulation and has sent out a modified version at the hearing. So the thing is essentially just joy and fun, because now it's like everybody agrees that what's happening makes sense. Then we have actually come so far that we have listened to the industry. It will be easier to do business when politicians listen. The present dispute is, in fact, whether a sensible proposal is to be rejected or whether it is appropriate to attach the Protocol. It is distributed in the Chamber as a proposal from the Right and the Progressive Party that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. I'll take that up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1768	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1771	On 18 August 2009, the Ministry sent out a new regulation on Hardangerfjorden. The case made a lot of commitment; there came in a whole 53 hearing opinions. The Ministry re-issued a hearing note on 16 February 2011. Then 54 hearing opinions came in. This shows that this case creates significant interest. The proposers wish to postpone the regulation of specific requirements for aquaculture-related activities in Hardanger. I refer to a letter from the Council of State, where the Ministry points out that in the light of recordings, meetings and the Ministry's assessment, a revised proposal for the Hardangerfjord Regulation is now being worked on. This will also be sent to the hearing before a final decision is taken. Now, while we were traveling last week, I have registered that FHL's impact assessment came before the weekend, and I am absolutely sure the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will look into it. On this basis, it can be interpreted as meaning – if you wish – that the proposalers have their wish to postpone, and on this basis, the majority of the Committee proposes that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1786	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Lillian Hansen for a good, historical review relating to when these regulations were sent out. What's interesting is that you've come to a conclusion. Because, at least for the time being, the Council of State has resigned, as the proposers asked, it is concluded that the proposal is not acceptable. It is a little special — at least when looking at the history of the proposal — because the proposal came as a consequence of the fact that representatives from the political leadership of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department stated that this regulation could be implemented. Then I signed this proposal for a representative on behalf of the Progress Party, i.e. at a time when the government had not withdrawn the matter. Then this was valid and was to be implemented. So, in retrospect, fortunately, the Council of State postpones the introduction of the regulation and also says yes, we should be consistent – just what representatives of the Progress Party asked for in their proposal, but which had not been done in the past. It was a meeting between FHL and the department as late as March 15, when FHL region South-West was presented with that proposal, that is, the impact assessment available. But the special thing is that we don't yet know how to relate to a new text. Nothing has been written – at least nothing that I or others have seen – about what you want to send out at a new hearing. This means that the matter is currently pending. We have also seen press releases and what the consequences would be, linked to both jobs and economic losses, if the original regulation that had been taken up at the hearing had been implemented. The opposition actually boasts to the Council of State, precisely because the Council of State has exposed the regulation. The only people who haven't understood it are actually the government parties even here in the Storting, who say that you don't approve of the proposal, that is, what the Council of State has already done. But, as I said, a great favour to the Council of State so that at least the Council of State did what she did, because now we see what consequences this could actually have. But my challenge to the Council of State in this matter is: When can you expect a new text, so that you know what you have to deal with? For the time being, you've only been told verbally that you want to review, that you want to look at the recordings that have been made. For the time being, at least the undersigned is not aware of any new text of the regulation to be sent to the hearing. So I hope at least that the Council of State will announce in its statement what you can expect in this matter. Then I still hope that the representatives of the government parties in Stortinget can finally agree with their own Council of State and attach the proposal to the protocol – because it is in fact a recognition of what the Council of State has already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1803	I'm going to go a little bit into the slightly more overarching perspectives in this case. Breeding is an industry that means a lot to the country and to many coastal communities, but it is a young industry that has grown rapidly. Therefore, it is important to develop an administration that can ensure that we receive a viable industry. A short time ago, the Riksrevision presented a report on the management of aquaculture. The press release on the audit report includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The forestry industry has had significant environmental challenges through, inter alia: high escape rates, salmontus and extensive losses due to disease. – These and other environmental challenges are of a scale that makes it necessary to strengthen management of aquaculture in order to ensure environmental sustainability and the potential for future growth in industry.’ It is a pleasure that many in the industry see the seriousness and support the assessments of the Riksrevision. It is also gratifying that industry actors have gone out in the media and called for more offensive management of the farming industry. When measures are proposed to make the industry more resilient, there is always a focus on the negative consequences of the measures, but we must not forget the far greater, negative consequences if we cannot get the measures to work and we have a problem with the strength of the industry as a whole. If the industry is to become viable, we must have clear and verifiable targets for bearer power, and we must take the necessary measures to achieve these objectives. Those who strongly argue against the necessary measures must share responsibility for proposing alternative measures with at least the same effect. Some others will be easily disclaimed. We see that as a good part of those who argued about this issue – they are very concerned about the negative consequences of the measures, but they do not come up with any alternative measures that may have a corresponding effect. It is important to include this perspective in the further treatment of the Hardangerfjord Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1819	Hardangerfjorden is one of the most breeding-intensive areas in Norway. The industry in the district contributes to important employment, industrial development and value creation. At the same time, one in Hardangerfjorden faces several environmental challenges, such as escape and lice. This is the background for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast on 18 August 2009 to send a new regulation on Hardangerfjorden. The matter created, as we know, great commitment, and there came in a number of hearing opinions. On 16 February 2011, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Region re-issued a hearing note, and this time a number of consultation opinions were received that show the high level of involvement in the matter. I, the undersigned and a number of others have also visited the area and received input from industry as well as from other actors. In the letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee on this matter, she points out that the Ministry is now working on a revised proposal for the Hardangerfjord Regulation on the basis of recordings, meetings and the Ministry's assessment. This proposal will also be sent to the hearing before a final decision is taken. This really means a postponement of the matter we are now debating. On this basis, the majority of the Committee proposes that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1826	I have made it clear in a letter to the committee that I will wait to re-regulate the biomass in Hardanger. I would like, among other things: look at the impact assessment carried out on order from FHL, which came last week. I would also like to thank the representative of Mr Nesvik. I share it generously with the members of the government parties on the Business Committee. I have, of course, had close dialogue with them in this matter. There are several considerations to be weighed against each other when the authorities intervene in Hardangerfjorden – consideration of wild salmon strains, wild salmon industry and recreational fishing, and consideration of value creation, employment and production in the farming industry. The challenges in Hardangerfjorden are many, but they are mainly linked to the fact that the wild stocks have been very weak for many years and that the sea trout has had an elevated lice pressure for a long time. However, it is not right to say that the farming industry alone is responsible for the status of local wild populations, which is a complex problem. Hardangerfjorden is one of the most breeding-intensive areas in Norway. Salmon is produced at an export value of approx. 2 billion. kr, and according to figures from the Fiskerderektorate, more than 650 persons are employed directly in the aquaculture industry in Hordaland. Raising activities in the area are of major importance for employment, industrial development and national and local value creation. In spring 2008, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast decided to regulate the effects of farming by freezing the biomass of farmed fish in Hardangerfjorden. It was also decided that the freezing decision should be replaced by a regulation ensuring that the biomass at all times does not exceed 50000 tonnes of fish. This is roughly equal to the biomass that was in the sea before the freezing decision. There has been a demanding process of finding an appropriate and fair way to limit it at all times in the Hardangerfjord. Through two consultation rounds, several meetings with industry, environmental interests and local politicians, as well as the Ministry’s own studies, a number of considerations have been highlighted and explained. In particular, on the basis of the recordings we received in the last consultation round in spring 2011, the Ministry has been working on a new draft of the Hardangerfjord Regulation. The impact study carried out by the FHL has further analysed the economic impact of the regulatory proposal which was at the consultation in spring 2011. Of course, I would like to look into these assessments and take the facts from the report in the further work on how to delimit the standing biomass in Hardangerfjorden. Before sending a new regulation to the hearing, we will also undertake a unified and up-to-date assessment of the knowledge base for the influence of lice and escape. In this context, I mention that after Easter the Food Authority will have an evaluation of the importance of its zone system for common set-aside in Hardangerfjorden. This evaluation will be one element of the updated knowledge base. I understand that regulation of the standing biomass in Hardangerfjorden could have social and economic consequences in the area. But, as I have said before, the aquaculture industry and wild fish interests must be able to live side by side – also in Hardangerfjorden. However, I would like to remind you that the solution laid down in the regulation will not be hogd in stone. When the environmental state of Hardangerfjord improves, we will of course also be able to loosen the grip on the industry of Hardangerfjord. Conversely, of course, it would also apply if the situation were to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1852	The Council of State indicates that a case of Easter will be brought by the Danish Food Safety Authority in connection with the possible joint set-aside under the lice regulation. Then I will ask the following questions: Are you going to put the entire Hardanger fjord, both the outer and the inner part, into the same zone, so that it could have enormous consequences for the entire industry in that fjord? That's question one. My other question to the Council of State is as follows: The Council of State does not say anything in its statement about when one might expect to have a new case sent out to the hearing. We all agree that there is a great pressure in Hardangerfjorden related to farming, a very large pressure. But you also have to have good and long-term framework conditions. Can the Council say anything about when a new draft is expected to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1860	I will be careful to be exact on the date in this case, for there is a matter that has been demanding, and it has not become easier, let me be honest on it. We have to weigh all the care against each other, and we have to do that thoroughly and really. Now we just got the report that the FHL ordered, in the house. Of course, we're going to give it justice and go through it thoroughly. I've just been kind of scoundreled in it and I see that there's a lot of numbers and a lot of things that come there that we'll of course take with us. What the Food Authority is going to evaluate is the sons they've had. There is no suggestion to bring something new, which has been made known to me at least, now it is the Food Agency itself that is responsible for those zones. It has to be discussed with us, but what they're going to do is evaluate and see the effects of the regime that's been in Hardangerfjord. And then we'll get back to it when they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1867	We've discussed the aquaculture industry a number of times in this room. Many times the debate has been noisy and with many different motives and arguments. The councils have also been in the hall explaining the situation of the aquaculture industry in general, and then I remember we had a debate about how we could deal with the many different institutes and agencies that had something to say about this particular industry. Everyone has agreed — in many articles — that fact-based management is important for this administration. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think that the impact assessment requested by the industry in this matter is a useful tool in developing new regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1876	It's always the way that knowledge is useful, and then you have to put the knowledge next to each other. I will not pass judgment on the investigation that the industry itself has ordered and submitted, because I have not entered it thoroughly enough. But it is clear that getting a recording from those who wear the shoe – that is what I assume is in that investigation – is always useful. That's why I'm going up and down along the coast and talking to nutritionists about the things we're working on. I have also been in this area myself and talked about the interests of the people of the wild, because there are several interests that need to be taken into account here. The challenge — to be honest about it — is to find the right balance between taking account of the wild nature and maintaining at the same time a breeding industry that is important for the communities there and that is important for the whole nation. Yes, knowledge is always useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1883	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1888	It was quite clear that at least we agree that fact-based management is an important and correct tool. It is that the aquaculture industry has grown, it has become important — it is economically important, it is important for employment, it is important for coastal settlement. And then it's not going to stick under the chair that it's an industry that puts footprints. There are some principles that have been agreed in the debates. The fact that we have robust practitioners is a prerequisite for driving sustainably. It is very often that when profitability gets worse, things also happen in relation to the sustainable element – not only for the aquaculture industry, but also for very many other industries. It is also the case that having a dedicated industry that takes the problems seriously and engages in environmental issues and issues around the industry is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable operation. We have experienced that in this case. So here we have an industry that has taken action, wanted to acquire knowledge, would get the best possible knowledge before a decision is made. Then the industry is honoured to act that way, and it is honoured to the council that she withdrew the prescription when she saw the reasonableness of this. Then it becomes strange that we get a post from the representative Holmelid from SV, where you pre-fect the old principle that if you just pull the precautionary principle so far that you do not get any knowledge, you are sure that you do nothing wrong. For here it's not like Holmelid's trying to suggest, that it's the political parties in this room who are trying to subsidize the matter at the expense of the environment. Here it is a committed industry and committed politicians who have said that they need knowledge to get the best possible solution, to get the best possible regulation, the right rule. Fortunately, the Council of State agrees with us, and then the Council of State will rather go up and oppose me if she thinks I have been wrong. Fortunately, I heard the Council of State said that the facts were important. That's not what Holmelid said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1901	This is just a brief explanation of vote by the Christian People's Party that we support the proposal by the Right and the Progressive Party that document 8 be annexed to the Minutes. We also support whether that government has expressed, as I see it, that it is important to assess new knowledge before the Council of State takes a final decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1906	I was also a little surprised when I heard the representative Holmelid's posts, but I will not stay any longer by it. I want to say that the Council of State has now confirmed – and that is very good – that you want to put the fact-based basis at the bottom here. It's important, especially when we see that if we had introduced the original regulation, it could have dramatic consequences, because here we estimate a loss of up to 1,260 jobs, 1.8 billion. kr in lost turnover. We're talking about major consequences. Notice, I said "can't get," because you never have to take all the numbers completely for granted, you always have to ask questions about the numbers, and so I say "can't get", so that's clarified, and that might not be part of the debate. What I'm questioning – for the Council of State agrees that we need more knowledge, the Council of State has confirmed that you want to look at these things again – is why you didn't do it in advance, until you sent out the prescription to the hearing. Why didn't you contact the industry in advance, just to look at these things, before you created the uncertainty that this consultation round actually created? Because there was great unrest and major problems, also linked to localities. If you do this and you close parts of it and take it down, my question is, do you have sufficient premises in other areas for those who might lose the right to do this? We're looking forward to getting the fact-based piece added to it. There is no objective of maximising rearing at all costs, because we have a responsibility for the wild race, we have a responsibility to get control of the lice situation, and we have a responsibility for what is involved in escape. The question is, how can we achieve the goals that we set ourselves? A number of different types of proposals have also been made by the Council of State. The industry has come up with a plan of measures. Now we have to start to see a little bit of the effects of it. And as I also said in my post: We know that Hardangerfjorden is a very stressed area, and we know that there are measures that need to be taken to get control of the situation related to lice and to escape across the coast. Let's get the facts, and let it lie down before we make our regulation decisions. Then we have at least a better basis to discuss from.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1919	I've been working on research all my life, so I'm used to having facts to do. But as a researcher, I know that facts aren't just one thing. Most cases have several types of facts, and that's what Frank Bakke-Jensen forgets in his attempts to make a point. I pointed out that there are more facts than the ones that came from that statement. My point is that the facts about consequences are one type of fact, the facts about the consequences of action are one type of fact, and the facts about the consequences of not taking action are another type of fact, and that is the kind of facts that Frank Bakke-Jensen tends to forget, and that is. The National Audit Office points to this. I assume that Frank Bakke-Jensen doesn't think the Riksrevision doesn't know the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1931	In Vett and Uvett it is said that it is not just facts; it is «factamorgana». It's quite possible that we can take a discussion about different types of facts. I'm sure we can take it both in terms of reach and in terms of novelty. But at least it has to be that if you don't want to investigate the consequences, at least you don't want to collect the knowledge and the facts. So I'm going to agree that we can make a whole series of processes where we can get knowledge, and a whole series of what kind of facts-based material that can lie there. But if you don't know-how, you don't get knowledge, you don't have all the facts. It must be sunny.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1940	In essence, I think this is beginning to develop into a strange and strange debate. Yes, I would say that what the representative Nesvik is doing is almost at the limit of what you can characterize as squaring. Firstly, I really believe, as I said in my speech, that what was wanted by the representative Nesvik has been taken care of. It's been a good process, so the Council of State has taken all the recordings, waits a little bit and starts more processes. It's actually the government council that is now deciding the process further.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1948	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1951	Just so that it is clearly established: the Progress Party has given credit to the Council of State for what the Council of State has done. What I have questioned about is that the government parties in the Chamber here, after the Council of State has done what the proposers have asked for, say that you do not approve. It's gonna be weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1956	When we in the government send something to the hearing, it's just to get the input into the suggestions you're making. We have got that in this case, in the sense that there are many who have been against us doing anything, and someone who has been for one and the other. What I want to clarify is the question of why we didn't look at consistency in advance. What we did was actually challenge the industry to make an alternative suggestion: if the industry had been able to decide, how would they have done it? The industry has not come up with a clear alternative, and it shows to all the world that this can be a demanding matter. I have not put a case at risk, but we are taking the necessary time to prepare a new proposal, which will again be sent to the hearing. Again, of course, it is to get feedback on what we then propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1965	Just a brief comment. The last comment of the Council of State must actually be the most suitable one for creating ambiguity. Although the industry did not provide a clear alternative, the industry asked to make impact assessments and get them as part of the knowledge material before the regulation came into force. That's what the Council of State has done. The council has then registered that it was a good point. The industry agrees that this was wise, and subjected the regulation to a waiting period for more knowledge – knowledge that is now being acquired in the impact study. So the industry hasn't come up with anything, I don't think the council almost meant anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1970	The representative Lillian Hansen has spoken twice before in this debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1973	That's right! Now I hope that the minority remembers what I'm saying now, and as the Council of State just said in the pulpit. The Council of State has not asked for a postponement in this matter, but takes better time.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1978	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e1992	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2001	The proposal we are now considering is one of the proposals of the staging representatives Frank Bakke-Jensen, Øyvind Halleraker, Bjørn Lødemel and Svein Flötten where you want to put in place equal structuring opportunities for coastal fishing vessels over 15 meters. Unfortunately, it is a fact that there are today different arrangements based on when one has come under the structuring scheme. In fact, it is the time when one has entered the system that has been decisive for what types, how many and what allowances one can combine on a vessel when taking another vessel out of fishing. In addition, according to the size of the vessel, which group you are in, there are different arrangements. Some groups are not at all within the structure scheme, while others have the possibility to be there. The Committee has been divided into two groups. The Government Parties refer to the letter from the Council of State. The Council of State explains the government's policy in letters to the Committee, saying that today's structure system is firm and that nothing will be done about it. The Committee's minority, led by the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, want equal opportunities within the industry – i.e. to eliminate the differences that lie there and to base what is called the 3+3 principle on the population mouth in the context of structuring. Today, there are several different schemes. You have 2+2, 3+1, and you also have others that don't get to be structured at all. I guess the position, the government parties, is going to be brilliantly ready for their own vision, so I'm going to spend the rest of my speaking time saying something about the minority's proposal. It is important when entering and structuring within the fishing fleet to have as much a level playing field as possible — if not, differences related to, for example, fishing fleets. the financing of fishing vessels and the ability of vessels to defend the capital expenditure incurred in the case of new buildings. It's not like that today. It is clear that those who come under the old scheme have better opportunities and conditions for profitability than those ships that are currently trying to get in and get structure. That is why it is important that we go back and take care of, as suggested in proposal No. 1, from the minority: ‘The government is asking for equal structuring opportunities for coastal fishing vessels over 15 metres.’ In addition, it is also called for: «the government is proposing a structuring scheme also for the smaller part of the fishing fleet which does not currently have such schemes»; and that this should be presented to the Stortinge in the spring of 2012 — this is precisely to look at how we can increase profitability even in the smaller part of the fleet. Norway's Fiskarlag has, among other things, have also been involved in this and, as far as I know, also adopted it at its annual meeting. Furthermore, the Progress Party has also put forward proposals to ask: ‘The government shall ensure that the allowance ceiling for the bankline fleet is increased to 5’. Here I'm a little excited to hear the Council of State, and I'm going to listen intensely to the Council of State's comments on this matter. We know that there have been several meetings where you have made your recordings. It's important to be able to put this in place. I hope that the Council of State can say a little about this, whether there is movement in this matter. This is part of the industry that is struggling to raise its profitability. It is a high-quality product, and it is a fleet that has a great need for renewal. It is also important for this type of structuring not to go beyond the vessel group. You have to stay within the group. That is, you don't want to take others away to assign this group of vessels, but you want to ask for structure within the group. I hope the Council of State can say a little about this matter. If we are satisfied with the submission to the Council of State, the party of progress would propose that the proposal be submitted without any substantive consideration. From this I allow myself to promote all the proposals the Progress Party either is on or is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2036	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2039	In Norway, we have a long history of different structural measures in the fishing fleet, and it is important that the structural scheme be assessed and discussed in relation to the two main objectives of the scheme. Firstly, it shall contribute to the ability of the fishing fleet to participate in the continuous development of productivity, in the same way as other industries. Secondly, the scheme shall help to better adapt the capacity of the fleet to the resource base. The government has described its structural policy – as has sometimes been said – in St.meld. No 21 for 2006-2007. The structural Communication concludes that there is a need to continue the structural system in the future, but that it is also a political responsibility to be aware and to decide whether or not to accept the effects the scheme is expected to have had. It is a political responsibility to strike the right balance between business and social policy considerations. The structural issue is thus about what the Norwegian fishing fleet of the future will look like, and it is obvious that this is the key issue in Norwegian fisheries policy debates. Then there are many opinions about the structure of the fishing fleet. For example, the proposers have a problem with: not dealing with an increased financial threshold for new recruitment to the profession through increased structuring. On the TV 2 news on 8 March, there was an entry point that the entrance ticket for young people to enter the fishing profession is very high. I saw it as a problem in the interview with a young fisherman. First, capital shall be raised to buy the boat and use, and then invested in quotas, if there are any available for sale. Such an allowance varies in price, but this item is not cheap. It can simply be too expensive for a youth who wants to enter the industry, according to the TV 2 news entry. Another consequence of structuring is that it is most likely to be a concentration of allowances, most likely a centralisation of allowances in fewer locations and in fewer hands. Will fewer boats lead to e.g. less predictability of the land installations based on coastal fleet raw material? It would have been interesting to hear what the proposers think about this. So this case is going to deal with the same structural possibilities for coastal vessels over 15 meters. Then I think it's a little strange that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party in most of their remarks concentrate on arguing for the situation in the ring note and the bankline fleet. Very well known, this group of vessels is not defined under the group of coastal fishing fleets ending at 28 metres. I think it's a completely different debate. The majority of the Business Committee agrees with the Council of State's conclusion that it is important to ensure a stable and predictable framework for industry and that the key elements of the government's structural policy are firmly established. The same majority emphasises the firmness of the government's structural policy, as described in the Single European Act and in the political platform for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2058	When we talk about fisheries, we talk about industrial policy, and when we talk about industrial policy, we often discuss framework conditions for practitioners. Another word for structure might as well be modernisation, because it is now that this industry too is developing. My old venerable father had a 31-foot jack in the 1980s. With such a large boat you fish today at least twice as much as you did at the time. It's also like no matter what primary industry we're looking at, the number of practitioners goes down, it's agriculture, it's reindeer farming, it's fishing. There's a lot of reasons for that. Modernization is actually one of the reasons. You use less crew, less human power to do the same job today than what you did not very, very many years ago. It is also that one of the most important things young people look at in an industry — if it is to be attractive — is that it bears the mark that it is a fair entrance to it. Unfortunately, it is not in the coastal fleet today. It's not that the administration is fair, in the sense that everyone can earn the same profitability in the coastal fleet. A structural system was introduced, a modernisation, under Svein Ludvigsen, and then the Workers' Party led, at Helga Pedersen, a campaign where it was said to the fishermen: take it easy, you don't have to be involved in modernising the fleet or acquiring your rights, because when we get to the government offices, we have to reverse this system. That's not what happened. An 18-month structural halt was adopted. Then came back with a quasi-system, when one had understood that modernisation was necessary, but one could not lose so much face that one could put in place the system that had been. So today we're dealing with an A, B, C and D team. This means that we have some shipowners who have good profitability, and that we have others who have such a bad right base that they don't have the full profitability. Some have poor profitability. The background to our proposal is that we have to look at the coastal fleet and then introduce equal rules for everyone. You can't be aware of a policy that discriminates in this way. So there's a discussion that you can get a lot of density of rights in one place. Well, if you look along the coast we have, it's actually like people settle in fewer and fewer places. We don't want to avoid that if we talk about how many people lived in a municipality. In a municipality of 1,100 people they get the nine cods each, and then it will be like this forever. It has nothing to do with it. You're dependent on having profitability. One depends on getting a little bit more concentrations of industry, because today we depend on caring for a market that is much, much more focused on getting quality. We have promoted the proposal for the simple reason that the industry says this is unfair. It's problematic to recruit with such a scheme, it's problematic to get a modern fleet that can take on land raw materials of the quality that we need today, and it's problematic to get profitability in the industry. It is also problematic administrative if we get an industry where large parts are becoming unprofitable, because then we also have problems with sustainable and ecological management. Wages and salaries are a prerequisite for all of these things. Together with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, we have promoted the proposals made by the representative Nesvik. In addition, the Right has a proposal with the Christian People's Party, which I take up in this regard. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the quota ceiling for the bankline fleet to 5 allowances and to return to Stortinget with proposals for measures that may increase the profitability of this fleet group.’ We've also heard clues that there may be things going on, so we're going to be all ears, sharpened and keenly interested when the Council of State is making its contribution. Maybe we can turn this into a transmission proposal – we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2078	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2081	SV is concerned that we should have a fisheries policy that benefits the coastal population. That is why we are concerned about implementing a fisheries policy that does not force more and more centralisation and increasing capital needs. Many of the suggestions from the opposition go in such a direction. The smallest coastal fleet means a great deal for the society in which the vessels belong. He is the basis for busiment and value creation in many communities. SV is concerned with securing its economy, but it must be done with other means than the structure proposed by the opposition. Several measures have already been implemented. The government has, among other things, the establishment of a synergistic system favourable both to the economy and to security. The government has notified me that it has started working on a maritime food message. In the field of maritime food reporting, we will have a holistic discussion about the economy, both in the fisheries and in the fishing industry, so that we can get an overall assessment of the various measures that can ensure the economy in the fisheries sector. SV is looking forward to a wide discussion in that context. We do not see the need to enter into the major changes now, but we may open up the necessary adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2090	A viable fishing community is essential for the future of the coast and, in order to achieve this, profitability in the fishing industry is very important. It is therefore of great importance that the political environment has a lively and committed debate about the framework conditions for industry – throughout the value chain. This applies both to the fleet and to the rural industry. Recent challenges related to the coastal fleet have been the subject, and thus the framework conditions. In the letter sent to the Committee by the Minister for Fisheries and Coast on 15 December last year, she refers to St.meld. No 21 for 2006–2007, which describes government policy in this area. In the letter, the Council of State points out that it is ‘open to assess and, where appropriate, implement changes and adaptations in the framework of today’s structural policy’. Work is under way on the new big business communication on fisheries and aquaculture policy, and the government has said that the notification should be submitted during the current majority period. In this Communication, it would be natural for the possibilities of increased value creation and better profitability in fisheries to become a key issue under discussion. This will provide a good framework for a wide-ranging debate on which industry is concerned, and on the part of industry, the debate on structural quota schemes will probably be raised. I will not hide that this is a demanding debate, but as for other industries, it is important that we look at all aspects of the industry when the new big business message is to be developed. It is also important to discuss the current issues at arenas where the industry can play an active role. Then we'll have to wait for the debate before the conclusions are drawn. As a basis for the debate on the framework conditions for the coastal fleet, it is important to include key facts. In industry there is a high average age in fleet and little renewal. In the three smallest fleet groups, the average age of the vessels is 25 to 30 years, and there will therefore be a great need for fleet renewal in the coming years. In addition, the average age of fishermen is high. In most groups, the average age is about 50 years, and this shows that there will be a great need for recruitment in the years to come. In order to achieve this recruitment, which will be essential for ensuring viable fishing communities, the industry must be seen as attractive to young people. This is very important in the debate we are now discussing. I therefore think it is good for us to be able to have a new and broad debate on the fishing industry in the context of the new big business communication and how we will ensure viable fishing communities in the future. It is important here to raise the challenges facing the industry and the solutions that may be relevant. It will be a demanding but absolutely necessary debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2109	For generations, the Norwegian fishing industry has been an important industry, which has a major impact both on coastal communities and on the well-being of the whole country. Norwegian maritime food exports amounted to 53 billion in 2011. kr, and the large and traditional fishing industry accounted for an export value of 22 billion. kr. Never before has more seafood been exported from this part of the industry. There is an enormous amount of value creation in the fishing industry, and this shows the importance of ensuring good and predictable framework conditions for the industry. Regular evaluations and regulation of industries are important in order to ensure increased profitability and adequate recruitment. There is no doubt that structuring the coastal fleet has political explosiveity, and a germ of disunity has been so for many years. Maybe on the very basis of that, it might be wise to look at those who know where the shoe is pressing, and listen to those who are closest to the industry. As presented in the case-law, on 7 October 2011, the FiskeribladetFiskaren reported that an overwhelming majority of Norway's Fiskarlag national meetings in the autumn of 2011 supported a proposal to give everyone, regardless of length of boat, the same opportunities to have three quotas of both herring and cod. Furthermore, a proposal to stop the structuring of the coastal fleet at today's level was voted down by a correspondingly large majority. The signal from the industry is noisyly clear, and even a majority government should listen to the industry. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the minority, which is part of the Christian People's Party, being turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2120	The proposal for a representative is to introduce equal structuring opportunities for coastal vessels over 15 metres. In addition, the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have made further proposals for changes to the structural legislation. These proposals concern the fleet below 11 metres and the conventional sea fishing fleet. The government has described its structural policy in St.meld. No 21 for 2006-2007. The government there concluded that there is a need to continue structural arrangements in the future, but at the same time proposed adjustments in some structural instruments. This structural policy is firm. At the same time, the government has subsequently made changes and adjustments to the structural legislation in the framework of current policies. The aggregation of the North Sea trawl group and the Pelagic trawl group into one structural group is an example of such an adaptation. The same is true of the changes in the structural arrangements for seiners. This is primarily about facilitating natural development in the fleet structure when special conditions apply. I am still open to consider changes and adaptations to structural legislation in the framework of current policies. It is important to pay attention to what is necessary to contribute to the profitability and renewal of the fishing fleet, while at the same time contributing to predictability and stability of the industry’s framework conditions. One of the measures in the structural notification was to lower the coastal fleet quota ceiling above 15 metres, from the 3+3 mentioned above to 2+2/3+1. The proposals of the representatives represent a reversal of this. The need for careful structuring in the coastal fleet is still present. Business economic considerations need to be balanced against the social role of coastal fleets along large parts of the coast. There is still room for more structuring within the current quota ceiling. So the Committee members of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party propose to open up for structuring in the coastal fleet below 11 meters. This ship group is of great social importance to a number of coastal communities, and I am very concerned that we are trying to contribute to better profitability in this group. It is important to facilitate a development that ensures the renewal and recruitment of the smallest coastal fleet. That is why, for every quota year from 2010, I have put in place a cooperation scheme for vessels below 11 metres. Co-fishing provides for two fishermen on board the smallest boats, and for the fishing of two quotas from one boat. This is beneficial both for business and not least for safety reasons. The opposition's proposals show the differences between the government's and the opposition's structural policies. The opposition appears to be concerned solely with the economic considerations of the individual boat owner. It's also important for the government. But we also look at other considerations and are concerned about how different measures affect the local communities in which ships belong. We are therefore concerned about finding the right balance of the instruments. We need to find measures that provide the necessary profitability within a framework that is acceptable in a wider context. The figures at group level show that the fishing fleet is now largely profitable, although it varies between groups. We also need to be clear that the figures at group level can mask differences between ships within the group. We therefore need to remain open to further adjustments in the structural arrangements, but the main features are fixed. However, I can now inform you that the government has decided to send to the hearing a proposal to raise the quota ceiling for the conventional sea fishing fleet from three to five quota factors for cod and hake. My proposal is to raise it from three to five, but we also ask the hearing bodies to comment on whether four could be an alternative to five. The conventional sea fishing fleet has worn out with low profitability in recent years. This has different reasons. The Government considers that regulatory adaptations are necessary to ensure renewal and profitability of the ship group. Such adaptations would be in line with the current structural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2151	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2154	The Council of State indicated in its statement how important it was to have more boats along the coast in order to ensure the resource base of factories etc. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. But the most important thing for us to be able to maintain it is the profitability of the industry. The state councils themselves were also involved in the joint fisheries system. It is also a system adopted year by year. It's not a permanent arrangement that Holmelid was in, but it's a year-by-year arrangement. Then you depend on having two uses – you have to have two boats, and you have to have two uses. If you're going to think purely business-economic, it has to be one of the most unprofitable things you can have. That is, there are two people who are going to fish together from the same boat, but they have to have each their own boat and each their own use. That can't be very reasonable. That's why we say, in line with what Norway's Fiskarlag says, that we should also consider a structure scheme in the smallest part of the fleet. Do the Governments disagree with the Fisker team?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2161	At the first national meeting of the Norwegian Fisheries Team that I attended as a State Council, co-fishing was one of the major issues. There one after the other went up to the pulpit and asked for a synopsis arrangement for security reasons. They have, and they have been given it in the years that follow, and I have even allowed it to be possible to co-fish with themselves. Then, of course, in relation to business-economic reasons, one can ask questions as to whether this is fully targeted. But the reason for all those who went to the pulpit at that national meeting was security – that there could be two pieces on board a boat. Then they fish first at one and looked at the other, and that was also the background for me to say yes to it then – and have agreed to a co-fishing arrangement in the years that followed as well. I've been listening to the industry. I did, and we keep doing that. But the voices are a little bit different. Everything is not as unambiguous as the requirement for co-fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2168	In the post, the Council of State says that the difference between the major fraction or the government parties and the opposition is that the opposition only emphasises business-economic elements when talking about structuring. And that's what she does after I made a post where I explained our reasons in relation to this, where I mentioned the settlement as an important part of it – a robust industry – where I mentioned recruitment as part of it – important for industry – where I mentioned modernisation and fleet renewal as part of the rationale for structuring. Nevertheless, the Council of State says that we only focus on business economic elements. Then I must be allowed to ask: How does the Council of State think that unprofitability can promote residence? How does the Council of State feel that unprofitableness can promote recruitment? And: How does the Council explain that unprofitableness and injustice can make sure that we get the necessary fleet renewal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2175	Unprofitability, of course, does not promote recruitment or activity. The main picture is that the fleet, whether the sea fishing fleet or the coastal fishing fleet, is not unprofitable. The main picture is that it's going very, very well. And then we look at the mean that the smallest coastal fleet is going to get the worst out. There is probably also that we have the largest share – we can call them less active actors, for different reasons. It is clear that what promotes activity, what promotes coastal activities, are profitable businesses both at sea and on land. I have also met actors who, eager for structure, admit that it was perhaps the most expensive team, so it is not sure it will be so profitable anyway. So having a debate related to that is pluses and minuses, I also think it makes sense in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2180	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has signed a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2183	I have also met businessmen who have made the purchase of faulty goods – purchased the wrong goods – so it was not profitable to run a shop. But we don't go in and regulate for that reason. It is also a little strange – the Council of State would have to correct me – but in its speech, the representative Irene Lange Nordahl said that the average age of the fleet was between 25 and 35 years. It tells me that it might be high time to modernize this fleet. Modernization of the fleet will lead to modern boats. We can get young people into the profession. We can improve the quality of the raw material carried ashore, and we can get more profitability for industry as well. But it requires the possibility of being allowed to structure it, and it requires a basis of right that creates profitability. Does the Council of State think that the injustice that exists today is a plus for the coastal fishing fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2192	I think it's going to be a little bit special to compare a regulation of fisheries, which, after all, is the property of the community, which we have to manage for the best of the community, with fault-buying in the business world. So here we are talking about a natural resource that is the community's property, which we have to manage for the benefit of both the fishermen, the fleet and the landside. I was last in Finnmark just before the weekend. There I met a youth who had got a boat, and he said that we should not allow structuring in the smallest fleet. It is possible for young people to enter today. It's not as expensive as many people want it to be. My point is to say that there are many voices, and they crack a little bit. That's not what it looks like in the minority settings here, that there's a unison call to get more structured. In some areas it is. For this reason, the government presented proposals on autoline and structuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2197	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2202	Right, I think it's very important to ensure good and reliable conditions for the fishing fleet. Therefore, the Right has raised these questions through this Document 8 proposal. One in the Right has also been very active in the past to make sense of structuring the fishing fleet. As former fisheries minister Svein Ludvigsen was responsible, extensive structural changes were made. As a result, much of the fishing fleet was adapted to both the resource base and the income base. Few fisheries ministers, like Svein Ludvigsen, have been well-liked both in the north and in the south. He even had his own fan club in the fishing industry. Unfortunately, the first thing this government did after she took over in 2005 was to notify structural freezes. When one had such good experience of structuralisation during the Bondevik II regime, Helga Pedersen and the red-green government were their new fisheries policy to go backwards into the future. An important part of this matter is about the ocean-going bankline fleet. This is an important part of the fishing fleet in my home state of Sogn and Fjordane. Of the 35 boats in this group, 34 are at home in Sogn and Fjordane and in More and Romesdal. Many of these belong to long-line fleets, and they are a very important part of the total fishing industry in our county. The bankline fleet delivers first-class fish. They have shown both the ability and the willingness to bet on quality products, and that is what they deserve. Last fall I was on the bluff of MS «Frøyanes», the world's largest lineboat, which Ervik Sea Fishing has been built – a fantastic boat and a great riding team. There is a strong desire from this fleet group to increase the quota ceiling from three to five. Norwegian Fisheries Teams have also supported this in a co-decision. There is no doubt that this fleet group needs to increase the quota ceiling to five, and if they want to solve this within their own fleet, they should just not be allowed to do so. The right fully supports this desire and sees it as a very decisive measure to provide wages and opportunities for long-term investment. The right-hand side might initially be thinking of making a direct decision to raise the quota ceiling to five already when dealing with this matter, but one sees that one has to use both the list and the ease to get it done. It was very disappointing to see that the government party would initially reject the submission. It may now appear that a strong and constant pressure, for example: from the Right, has led to the government turning around, and that's obviously positive. It is now crucial that the government delivers and meets the expectations that have been created.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2223	The structural system very often diverts many intensive and strong debates along the coast. I think we can remind ourselves that at the beginning of the 1950s you had about. 80 000 fishermen who took up the same quantity of fish as 10,000 fishermen today. This change from 1950 until today has been necessary. There is no one who can wish to return to a time when the industry to those degrees was becoming unprofitable – and therefore also the power of many fishing communities that we see that the fishing industry is today. We were many along the coast that were very excited when the structural system was stopped in 2005. At the same time, many of us were satisfied that the structure model was not removed when the government got back on track and proposed to continue the structure. For coastal areas, the structural scheme is a model to ensure profitability, to ensure renewal, to ensure safe recruitment and, above all, to contribute to the major challenge facing many coastal communities in the years to come, namely the generation shift within the fishing fleet. At the same time, however, we must recognise – and I think that is important – that the structural system is not a miracle cure. Structural schemes have their positive aspects, but structural schemes also have some negative aspects: I think it is important to keep in mind when looking at the overall picture and finding schemes to contribute to increased profitability and development along the coast. In other words, it is a model that, together with other measures, has proved to be effective in achieving fleet profitability. I want to take up a negative effect that is important to bring with me. Structural changes – at least in many Nordic coastal communities during these days – experience that too many fish remain in the sea after a hard and intensive winter fishing. Coordination schemes and, in particular, by-catch schemes are remedial measures linked to precisely the negative impact of a structural scheme. Changes to the quota year will make this even better, seen from the perspective of many coastal communities, and can in fact ensure that, in addition to an effective structural system, other species of fish that contribute to coastal development are also brought up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2235	The representative of SV Holmelid is busy securing the coast and avoiding centralisation. SV will wait and possibly open for required changes. An overall diet has said that the changes need to be made now. An overall diet has said that the industry's profitability for some is on the verge of collapse. It should also be noted that we do not behave in such a way that many people simply have to wind up and sell their boats because fishing is not profitable. It is also said that many of the boats are old, and that one is forced to renew the fleet. It costs money — it costs a lot of money. If one is to be given the opportunity to do so, a restructuring must take place in order to make it viable for everyone. The changes that have been made in recent years have resulted in not only an A and B team, but also a C and D team, as not all are included in the structure scheme. The recordings from the industry, in my opinion, have been unisoned – they are gathering that it is absolutely necessary that a sheep for the restructuring of the fleet. What's also said is that rail layers will do this within their own rectangles, i.e. they don't want to be taken from others. When the industry itself asks for this and says how one will do it, I cannot understand that it is necessary to send it out on a hearing ring. I think you've got the necessary input from the industry about what you want. I have a feeling that when the Council of State says she will look at this, and that it will be sent out on the phone, there is one way to push it over without making a decision on it at this point in time. I thought it had been recorded by the industry, saying that the government should take care of the industry's aspirations and its ability to do so now – not later.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2244	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Soldemeulebroucke, for being with the Advance Party and already agreeing that the quota ceiling should be increased to five. But he had not quite got his own party, and so far the Progress Party is alone. But great honor to the representative Solute flour. We appreciate that. I also very much appreciate the fact that the Council of State has now announced that there will be a consultation draft relating to increasing the quota ceiling for the bankline fleet to five. I am more concerned when the Council of State says that the industry has also been asked to comment on possibly raising the quota ceiling to four. Sogn and Fjordane bench and More and Romsdal bench have just met with the industry. It was one thing to do, among other things. warned against, finding an intermediate solution or quasi-solution – by increasing the quota cap to four. I hope you believe that when you send out to the hearing a quota ceiling of five. The councils are the vocabulary of other things, so I look forward to this. It is good to do it this way, but I hope that the Council of State also sends this out with a very short consultation period. In the fleet, there are today many who work so hard that it says about some of these shipping companies' futures. The representative Lillian Hansen criticised the opposition that we had promoted this proposal in this position, because it was only about the structuring possibilities for coastal fishing vessels below 28 meters. I am very pleased that we have taken this debate in general, just to show that we need to get things done. I hope that the Council of State will at least ensure that we have a brief consultation round and a rapid implementation in this matter. Furthermore, I would like to take the opportunity to make our proposal for a transfer proposal, as the Council of State has been as positive as she has in this matter, and hope that it gets a quick solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2257	This has been a debate that has almost given me confidence in politics again. First, thank you to the representative Holmelid, who lifted up the co-fishing as a good tool to increase the profitability and safety of the smallest fleet. Then I would like to remind you that when we made proposals about this winter 2010, SV voted against in Stortinget. So you've come up with better thoughts. It is this Council of State in its statement called ‘natural development’. There is also a little bit of my point in this matter: we are going to shirk to natural development when we talk about structural policy, but the principle of justice cannot be omitted. It's a very important principle for the right. The fact that we operate on different models, so that two neighbours do not have the same chance of getting the same profitability if they put in the same effort, is a principle Right cannot stand for. That's why we don't want to give in to structural models we use in the coastal fleet. We also trust the Council of State. In contrast to the representative Nesvik – who usually belongs well, he heard at least what Loedemeel said – I would like to file that it was not Right, but Right who thought they could join the Advance Party. In the right-hand side, the right-hand side is the largest, so the right-hand side has changed. Right, Right and Christian People's Party will turn their proposal into a transmission proposal. Then we expect that the consultation process will be short and that reason will prevail.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2268	The president wondered for a moment whether natural development had led to the Storting having a new party group, but the post made it clear that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2271	The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs said in his speech that a case was now being sent to the hearing on the increase in the quota ceilings for the autoline fleet from three to five. It becomes strange when the Progress Party says that there is no need to consult the case, while saying that we have to listen to the industry. Now the government has listened to the industry, handles it, arranges for it to be sent out to the hearing, and has received feedback. It's a good sign from a government that wants to meet the industry. I would also like to remind you of the new big business message – the work is underway – where the possibility of increased profitability in the fishing industry is also an important topic. There will be many possibilities for discussions, both in the course of the message process and when the message is to be processed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2278	I am set to manage many rules, and I am extremely concerned to follow them – at least with regard to this room. When I'm going to send a case to the hearing, it's of course because the law, the law, says it. We can't just change – or suddenly come up with a new – regulation overnight. That's the background. I hope that the Storting agrees with me that we follow the rules we have in this area, even though the impatience – I understand – is great. When we raise concerns about why we send a quota ceiling of four at the hearing, that is precisely what we are going to get the recordings. If this is what many people have called for here, that it is so unisoned – which I have heard, as far as I have heard – there is no great danger that there are many who are calling for a quota ceiling of four. At least we have it too. So I'm going to follow the rules for the length of the hearing again, and then I'm going to have time to go. Now I know the industry so well that there is something it is quick to take over, it is when it is sent out just a small smoke signal. Just thinking loud makes the fleet take it pretty fast. If I am allowed all the time for this debate, I would just like to comment on what the representative, Mr Solsvik, raised, namely changes in by-catch, and that it contributes positively to the things he pointed to, which I fully agree with. Therefore, I am very pleased that it is precisely this government that has increased the by-catch order by over 100 pst. It's just to get all the fish out of the sea, so it can be happy on land. The representative also addressed this with the quota year. That's maybe a little bit more nuanced view of, a little bit after where on the coast you travel. I was in Båtsfjord at the latest before the weekend, and there was now so much joy and satisfaction over this government that the discussion about the quota year has lost some, for what we have done in relation to by-catch, more than offset the need to change the quota year. To that I would also say that I have known most of the fisheries ministers in the last 30 years, and a lot of people have talked about changing the quota year. I have started an investigation to get both the pluses and the minuses with it, and then we get to conclude at some point what we are doing in that case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2289	It's not going to be much until the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen regains his belief in politics. I want to start with that. In addition, I think he's brave, the representative of Frank Bakke-Jensen, who was annoyed at SV in one matter. I don't think that's what the sharpest representative could have done. I did not criticize the matter. I am, as we are all in the red-green fraction, very aware of the situation in the autoline fleet and have taken it seriously. What I have said in my post, which I stand for, is that the issue that we are now debating in this Chamber, concerns the situation of the coastal fishing fleet over 15 meters. Once again, I would like to stress that the ceiling of the coastal fishing fleet is 28 meters. Then you can't be surprised that someone at least thinks it's a little strange. Then I want to say also finally that the description of the situation that was made from the pulpit here, I think was sad. It is not quite that there is need and death in Norwegian fisheries. There are actually a lot of people in the smallest fleet who make good money.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2298	Some people are more impatient than others after implementing decisions. But you can give a ‘go’ to the Council of States through decisions taken in this Chamber by telling you that there is a majority here. Then you can start the processes that are there, and that is exactly what the text of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It is not that we should depart from the law, but that we want it implemented. The Council of State has said that, and now the hearing process is under way. It was just reproduced by the representative Lillian Hansen about the way the representative Bakke-Jensen took on SV. It's a fact that you voted against what's going on with the co-fishing system. It was a representative proposal that was the basis of this Chamber, and it was therefore voted down. Fortunately, a one-year-in-slane system has been put in place, and you'll see how long it lasts. With regard to the proposal to look at what is involved with the smallest vessels and the structuring system, I hold fast to what I have said. It is directly problematic to, for example: They say that yes, you can have two fish on the same boat, but then you have to have two boats, you have to have two equipped boats to benefit from the system. This cannot make sense. The absolute worst thing we can do in the fishing industry is not to make sure that it's profitable at all times. It is precisely the profitability that will generate growth; it is the profitability of coastal fishing vessels that will ensure that the fillet factories and other coastal food industries are employed. If there is no basis for profitability, this will be confused, and the workplaces will also disappear. So, of course, there might also be negative things related to structuring. There are several people who have been involved. We all see that. But the thing that we have here on the table today is essentially about whether to come back with a system just to meet the challenges you have in the industry. Norway's fishing team, perhaps the leading in the field, has said that we are in favour of this. Then I think it's a little strange that the government parties are completely rejecting, but I expect that there will also be a change when we get the new big message – I hope so – so that the smaller part of the fleet also has the opportunity to get an even better profitability than today. Yes, many have good profitability. Not everyone has it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2309	Frank Bakke-Jensen has had two speeches earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2312	First, to the Council of State and her visit to Båtsfjord. There is enough to be satisfied with the by-catch system, yes. It is also the case that, as early as 2007, I was a full-time politician and proposed a by-catch system instead of a very complicated district quota system, which the Workers' Party adopted at the time. So I totally agree, here's the progression. But the change in the quota year is constant, and the reason for this is that this will give actors greater opportunities to plan for a whole year — perhaps use less policy, but give actors the opportunity to plan for a whole year and meet the fresh fish strategy that governments are using too much of their policies. Then, finally, to the representative Lillian Hansen. It wasn't meant to just take SV. It is also the case that the Workers' Party voted against the proposal I made on co-fishing in this Chamber. But they also made sense there and made a good arrangement gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2319	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2333	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2342	This is a very important matter, and it is good that we debate this important topic in this Chamber. I would like to start by saying that there must be no doubt that this government is concerned about the workplaces along the coast, and that the resources in the sea will provide value creation. It is a special feature in North Norway that the county has a relatively large share of jet fleet with delivery obligations related to its concession terms. These concessions have been awarded on the basis of a political desire to strengthen the land side with annual raw materials access and thus secure employment and activity on land. We now see that over the year there has been a development in which an increasingly smaller proportion of the fish are delivered freshly, and not to the plants and municipalities where the concessions indicate belonging. In essence, on the basis of the proposal of the minority in the business committee on the matter, it can be seen that the coastal fleet as a stable resource supplier to the farms is preferable. I justify that one of the proposals in this matter is industrial quotas in which the industry can rent out parts of the quota with delivery obligations for the coastal fleet. I ask the question as to whether such rotation would weaken the law on raw fish, and not least the law on participants. It is no surprise that the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to do so. So the Right cannot explain that there are especially two relationships that have contributed to this situation. That is the change in the freezing law, and that is the change from universal service to the obligation to provide. Both these changes result from the intervention of the Ministers for Fisheries of the Right. The proposals contained in this case are in line with the range of fisheries policy solutions of the Right and the Progressive Party. The members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party have, in their comments, a longer description of the history of the delivery obligations. These notes unfortunately contain several errors and inaccuracies. I will explain that in my next article on the matter, and I will notify myself accordingly. Industrial quotas and the random fishing system are two very controversial schemes. I also ask the question about the rental of quota rights can help to weaken the raw fish law and the participant law. It is central to provide the industry with framework conditions that enable profitability to develop industry and thus jobs. Efforts by both the political and the industry themselves are then necessary. It is important that enterprises acquire new knowledge through research that they can once again use to develop. In order to develop a viable industry, it is essential to ensure a smoother supply of fish to the coast. Both the fishing fleet and industry must contribute to solutions that ensure jobs and improve profitability in the whitefish sector. As the Council of State says in its letter on the matter: there is no ‘simple grip that solves the profitability challenges’ for industry. But I refuse to believe that it is not possible to process more of this fish in Norway, where we have the absolute best raw material. Our Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has already put in place a number of measures, which we have discussed in the previous case, including: significant increases in the by-catch regime and quota bonus for the second half of the year in the case of the supply of fresh fish. In addition, research projects are under way to look at how to increase profitability in industry. I do not know whether these are the measures or whether it is that Ola and Kari are concerned with their own health that makes the sale of fresh fish now appear to be taking off in Norwegian food chains. I'm very happy about that. Last year, the Norway Group increased sales by 26 pst., while ICA Norway experienced an adventurous increase of 50 pst. According to food chains, the demand for fresh fish is high and must give clear notice to the fishing industry at all stages. Now both the fishing fleet and the industry must seize the chance. This government will then ensure good fisheries policy and regulation that will facilitate more production throughout the year, including: through improved raw material access. Now the market is closer than on very, very long.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2368	I am very pleased that the representative Lillian Hansen said that she would take the floor again, because then the representative had to clarify the following: the representative referred to the negative link to changes in the freezing law. The representative referred to the negative relationship to the obligation to provide services. As far as I know, Prime Minister Stoltenberg joined the government offices in 2005 – in the previous roll-out elections. The question is, what has happened? Has this been changed by the representative Lillian Hansen? I do not remember having seen proposals for amendments to the laws that the representative pointed out have such a negative effect – it could have been presented to the Stortinget and made changes. That's what's the advantage when you're in a majority government, we've been informed that what you agree with, you get implemented, and what you disagree with, you change. That power lies in this hall when you have a majority. I really look forward to the representative Hansen telling us when you changed this, and how you did it. The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right is linked to how to make the situation easier for industry, making it easier to conclude agreements, precisely in order to have a security to get the supplies you need in order to have a smoother production throughout the year. So you haven't been able to do that. It has even become so that it accumulates over time, at given times of the year – yes, it even accumulates so much that special guarantee schemes have to be put in place to enable purchasers to afford to buy up the raw material. I think we have the same goal: that the fish we get should be of the best quality, as processed as possible, that Norwegian consumers get a high quality product, and also that we get a high price for the fish that we are going to export. Then we have to look at several ways to do it than we do today. That's what you're actually trying to do here, without going the way about what's going on with the Raw Fish Act. The Raw Fish Act sets clear requirements for the monopolistic activity of first-hand placing on the market of fish. It's determined by the government. Then you have to look at other ways to do it. You have to look at getting long-term delivery contracts, making sure that the framework conditions are put in place, also because the industry needs to be able to have the profitability you need. This is an attempt to get into part of that long term. I do not hide the fact that the Progress Party wants to modernise both the participation law and the raw fish law – a modernisation – precisely in order to meet the challenges of the future, as we see coming. But until then, at least we have to look at how we can use some of the tools that are here to get these things done. That's what you come to the government here to try to get a little bit more of that long-term, so that even the industry on land, along with the industry, can figure out these solutions. Of course, it is not surprising that the government is voting this way down, but in this case you do not reject it, in this case at least the protocol is attached. Then we're going to hope that there'll be changes along the way. I think everyone agrees that we want the best possible profitability, because we must have profitability and access to resources and raw materials if we are to be able to maintain the industry we already have. Otherwise, I address the proposal included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2383	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2386	The background to the proposal is the constant awareness that the world is changing. A number of delivery obligations to trawlers are currently not feasible according to the intention of the obligations when they arrived. In the proposal, we ask the question: if we are unable to fulfil the purpose of the regulations that exist, with the conditions laid down for these kinds of delivery obligations, should we go in and look at it and perhaps try to do something about it? Today there is a rather loud debate in North Norway about the delivery obligations to the trawlers. Very often, we experience that representatives of the Workers' Party are travelling around and notifying us that the problems that exist today are due to changes made by Right-wing Fisheries Ministers. Right Minister for Fisheries Thor Listau amended the freezing legislation in the late 1980s/early 1990s. Right Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen converted the delivery obligations into obligations of supply early in the 2000s. If you're very dissatisfied with this, you could have changed it a long time ago. So this has become a slightly sought after debate. The point of such a debate is not that we should stand here and swirl cheerfully, or that we can employ politicians with it, the problem of traveling around with that kind of message is that you create a sense of hopelessness in people who live on the coast and are going to feed themselves on these resources. Because if you live in a coastal community, and it's like a big decision in the late 1980s is going to have such a force that the Labour Party's big politicians in 2012 travel around with a cry-cold voice and tell how terrible this was, who in the name of all the world dares to live along the coast? It's simply that this is a kind of raw material that was used for blocks, relatively simple products, products we can't produce economically today. Then the industry needs another type of raw material. You can go in and see if it is possible to convert the regulations, so that this raw material comes on land to a quality that the Norwegian industry can use, to a quality that can give the Norwegian industry a profitable production. That's what we've been trying to describe. Then we've been so liberal that we've asked the Council of State to evaluate these things and come back with it. And I'm not going to hide that there's one important reason why we've promoted this proposal, and it's that we actually think it must be possible to be so honest in the political debate that at least you put on the table what kind of tools you're sitting with before you start to blame people who were politically engaged 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2399	The fishing industry is an important industry, with great value for many communities. It is therefore important to ensure adequate quality raw material for this industry. The value of securing the fishing industry of fresh raw material and better distribution of raw material over the year is widely agreed. To achieve this, more measures have been taken. Examples of such actions are described in the setting, so I will not take time to review them here. Proposal providers also accept universal service obligations. It is a well-known matter that there is a great deal of concern about the practice of universal service. Therefore, it is important to closely monitor universal service obligations and to intervene if a discrepancy is detected. There is something the government is busy about. It is important that the arrangements put in place to secure raw material for industry are followed up so as to create confidence in fisheries management. But industrial quotas, as proposed by the proposers, are – as the case-leader has done well – not a good solution. The fishing industry is struggling with low wages. Of course, it is important to help correct this situation, but here I think it is difficult to point out individual measures that may be somewhat seductive, seductive, so that an industry that is quite lacking and that has to deal with some challenges can get a good solution through individual measures. What you have to do is look at the soundness - coherent. This is why the government has taken the initiative of a research programme to look at the profitability of the fishing industry. I think that's one of the grips it's important to follow up and work on. I have great faith – as in other industries – that investing in product development is an important element in strengthening an industry. I also believe that in the fishing industry there is a reasonable potential to contribute to a better economy, including: through product development. Otherwise, this case – like the previous cases we have dealt with today – is one of the issues that will be worked on in connection with the maritime food notification, where one will see the issues in a larger context. In this respect, it may be convenient for a person to receive input from the on-going opposition — input into actions that may be important to include in the assessments of the maritime food message. But I'm of the opinion that when we first have a seafood message, one should look at the issues in a context and not go too far in picking out individual measures from a whole. It's not always the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2416	First, I would like to thank the representative Lillian Hansen for a good report. I would also like to stress that I agree with the main points she has made – not least in warning against an industrial quota system, which the opposition has proposed. The Centre Party is committed to facilitating increased profitability in the Norwegian fisheries processing industry and is pleased that the Council of State has launched and implemented a number of measures to strengthen the coastal fishing industry. One of the measures is to strengthen the by-catch system in cod fisheries with an increase in the current year from 6500 tonnes to over 14000 tonnes. In addition, for the second half of 2012, a quota bonus scheme has been established for the supply of fresh fish for vessels over 21 metres – this in order to provide a good basis for strengthening the supply of fresh fish and to ensure delivery of parts of the year as it may be difficult for the rural industry to obtain sufficient raw material. I would also like to point out that a research and investigation work is to be undertaken to assess how increased profitability in industry can be achieved. It is natural for these issues to be discussed in the new major communication on fisheries and aquaculture policy that is currently under preparation and that there is a great deal of commitment across the coast. It is important here that conditions related to the fishing industry be given a great deal of attention, including how to facilitate increased profitability. Coastal turmoil is linked to the content of delivery obligations. This is particularly true in Finnmark and Nordland, linked to Aker Seafoods’ delivery obligations. The problems have increased as the shipping companies have gradually transformed the trawls from fresh fish trawlers to freezer trawlers. On the part of the Central Party, we share these concerns. We will stress that delivery obligations are designed to ensure raw material for the fishing industry, and it is a political objective to contribute to industrial development, based on fish resources. I would also refer to the letter from the Council of State to the Committee, dated 5 January of this year, which states that there is no doubt from the point of view of the legal content of the delivery obligations. The same letter states that compliance by shipping companies with the delivery obligations is subject to extensive and regular administrative control, which is very important. I would like to say that it is almost touching to hear that the Right states that they no longer agree with the changes that the Right Fisheries Ministers have previously made with regard to the freezing law and the obligation to make offers. That's interesting. On the part of the Centre Party, we are concerned that the commitments are firm and that there are insoluble connections between the beam concessions and raw materials to the land industry. If these obligations are broken down, the allowance shall be withdrawn. The centre party will also stress that the situation we now have along the coast – in relation to these universal service issues – gives cause for great concern. From our point of view, therefore, we expect the Council of State to look as soon as possible at the possibility of taking more measures to ensure that the raw material is landed in the north and contributes to the creation of value in the north. So it's also the way that we in the Center Party understand that there are no easy solutions to these challenges. Here, a job needs to be done with solutions within the operating room that exists. The centre party is concerned about the profitability of the white fish industry and that it has been weak over time, especially in the case of the fillet. It is therefore important to have a thorough debate on this issue in the new Single European Act. Here it's important to see the whole value chain together. In order to ensure viable fishing communities in the future, there needs to be sufficient profitability at all stages of the industry. We discussed that in the matter we have just finished – and in this. Clearly, the profitability of the whitefish industry needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2442	Today's food debates here in the Chamber show the breadth of Norwegian fisheries policy. The issues that have been addressed show the importance of the fishing industry in Norway, both the major direct impact and the ring-fence of the industry on coastal communities, and the role of the industry as one of the largest value-generating industries in Norway. Unfortunately, the profitability of the whitefish industry has been weak over time, especially in the fillet industry. It is therefore important to facilitate increased profitability in the Norwegian fisheries processing industry. I look forward to the Council providing a major communication on the maritime food industry, and in this work, much attention must also be paid to matters relating to the fishing industry, with a particular focus on the instruments needed to increase profitability. It has been and should continue to be a political objective to remain a profitable coastal fishing industry. This includes, inter alia: the background to the introduction of universal service for parts of the trawl quotas, the purpose of which is to ensure fish processing facilities, stable raw material input from the cod trawl fleet. As suggested by the proposers in the file, the content of the delivery obligations has recently been widely disagreed, in particular with Finnmark and Nordland, and with Aker Seafood's delivery obligations. The precision of State Councils in their reply letter is important, but it is equally important that shipping companies' compliance with their delivery obligations is also comprehensive and regularly monitored. I look forward to being presented with the communication on seafood, and I assume that the Council of State will take into account the input that has been made in the debate, in the work on the communication. So I would like to remind the representative Lange Nordahl that the Christian People's Party in this case is not part of an overall opposition, but supports the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2453	The proposers request that the government review the delivery obligations of vessels with cod trawls and assess different measures. The objective is to provide industry and fleet with greater flexibility in the exploitation of the fish raw material, including contributing to the supply of fresh fish. I can assure the representatives that I am committed to strengthening the profitability of the fishing industry. I would be willing to consider any proposal that might have a positive effect. The fishing industry is important for both activity and employment in the districts and contributes to the alternative use of the raw material. I launched on 15 December last year a series of measures to strengthen the fishing industry along the coast. The main measure is a strong extension of the by-catch system in cod fisheries. This shall contribute to smoother deliveries to the fishing industry. Fresh delivery of the catch is required in order to participate in the scheme. Then I have also introduced a quota bonus scheme for deliveries of fresh fish. This will apply for the second half of 2012. It is set at 2,300 tonnes of cod for this scheme. As a longer-term measure, I launched research and investigation projects to assess how industry can achieve increased profitability. I want to discuss the long-term challenges of industry with key actors along the coast. As a result, the land industry will be dedicated to its own part in the notified maritime food notification. The representatives indicate that there is concern about the content of the delivery obligations. It is, of course, true that there are many different views on how the delivery obligations should be designed, but it is important to stress that there is no reasonable doubt about the legal content of the applicable delivery obligations. The fishing authorities shall carry out a comprehensive and regular monitoring of compliance with the applicable obligations. If infringements are detected, management will consider what is a reasonable response, if any, to the company. There will be both scope and gravity. I have noticed that the members of the Committee of the Right and the Advance Party go through the history of the rules of the Universal Service Regulation in their comments. Unfortunately, this review contains errors on some important points, without me spending time here and now commenting on these. The representatives argue that a system should be considered which provides greater flexibility for industry in the exploitation of the raw material. As an example, they mention the rental of allowances with delivery obligations to coastal vessels. To that end, I would point out that the authorities introduced such a testing scheme in 2004, but it was not used for various reasons. I can only confirm what has been said here, that there are very divided opinions about such an arrangement along the coast today. I don't think there are simple handles that can meet all the challenges facing the industry, but I have good faith that the measures we introduced in December will make a positive contribution. Once again I have to show my visit to Båtsfjord before the weekend, where there was great satisfaction with what has been done here. At least it will help everyone who wants to bet on fresh raw material. And of course, it's up to the actors to take advantage of the new opportunities. Then I also think it is important that the measures get the chance to work for a while. I will, if not very long, come back to Stortinget with the announced announcement of the marine food industry, which will give the opportunity to discuss the framework conditions of the marine food industry in full breadth.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2483	I have two questions for the Council of State. One is related to the statements made by the Council of State, where the Council of State says that the representatives are wrong — that is, that we provide incorrect information from the pulpit. I ask the Council of State to tell us where we have said something wrong, what we have said is wrong, so that it can be corrected, because you do not want to contribute to the fact that the matter has been made wrong. So I look forward to having that documented. Question two is about the maritime food communication. In several fisheries issues, it is quite obvious that we are all looking forward to receiving a maritime food report. Can the Council of State say a little about how this process is going now, and not least about when the Stortinge gets the message for treatment – whether it happens on this side of the summer, or whether we have to wait until the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2490	Let me answer the last one first, that's the easiest thing to do: the seafood message we have a big and wide process on, and many trips along the coast to get input from many actors. I'm one of them. With regard to the time, I have said that it will be the turn of the year 2012/2013. If it's before or after Christmas, we get back to it, but it's at least at that point. And the background for me wanting to spend the whole year is, first of all, to get a lot of recordings now, not least to get the width of it -- that we're able to get a complete message. I do not want a message that goes on all the small details. Now we're going to work out the way forward. For the correction of errors, I get to start – I have 17 seconds left: the one thing that the Progress Party and the Right point out is that under Svein Ludvigsen, there was an obligation to offer ‘as applicable in zones according to where the delivery conditions applied earlier’. This meant, therefore, ‘that fishing could be offered in a limited market, that a better price was achieved for fishermen and that it was possible for active localities’... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2497	We can do it simply: the Council of State can continue to explain where I have been wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2502	Then I continue where I left off: ‘... and it was possible for active local industry to use the raw material’. That's not right. The conditions of the authorisation of shipping companies have always been that the catch is to be offered primarily to a particular holding, to a particular municipality, etc. So this didn't change in that regulation. The change adopted under Svein Ludvigsen with regard to zones was contrary to a narrowing. Then there is also an error in the description of Helga Pedersen's regulatory changes, because it is not right as the Right Party and the Advance Party say that the bidding zones were removed under Helga Pedersen. The Government of Stoltenberg II has made no changes to the regions in which the catches must be subsidized, nor to the primary delivery obligation. Then there is also an error in the description of the processing obligation. ‘It requires the purchase and processing of all the raw materials’. No, you can't process all of the raw materials. The cod purchased from them has a duty to process 70 pst. off.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2511	If Bakke-Jensen wants a new line, that's why.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2514	Thank you very much, it was liberal, President! I will take the blame for the inaccuracies that the Council of State has explained here. I do not entirely agree, but I will come back to this in a later article. Some of the debate is on universal service, where Aker Seafoods in particular has been suspended for breaching these obligations. The regulation clearly says what to do on land, how much to land. There's a pretty nine-time control regime around this, and yet it's claimed from, among other things. Finnmark Workers' Party that the delivery obligations are not met. My question is simply: Is it the Council's impression that the delivery obligations are being broken today?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2525	As the representative Bakke-Jensen says, there is a nine-time control apparatus around this, it is checked that the conditions are followed. Now I have not received the figures for the last year, but historically there is no basis for saying that the delivery obligations are broken, nor do I have any indication that they are broken. What I understand is that many people think that the intention of the commitments is not being followed up. However, as the wording and as the regulation stands, it is legally very clear. So I haven't, at least until now, found out that it's a breach, at least not to any extent – not last year either. We will answer that when these checks are carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2530	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2535	Norwegian fishing authorities have granted trawl concessions to Finnmark. The reason for this was that these concessions were to keep employment going in Coastal Finland. It's now across 20 jet concessions in Finnmark. 17 of these are connected to the Aker group. These trawlers had a universal obligation to the facilities in Finnmark until 2003, when the Swedish Minister for Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen converted the universal obligation to offer 80 pst. of the raw material. Then you would think that at least 80 pst. from the raw material was delivered in Finnmark, but at that time one. The figures for the last four years clearly show that the shipping companies that have received these gold-plated concessions – not for their own account, but for the employment side – do not fulfil the intention to award the concessions. Official figures from the Directorate for Fisheries show that: in 2008 was 32 p.m. of hysa and 39 pst. the cod delivered over the berth in Finland in 2009 was reduced to 10 pst. of hysa and 26 pst. of the cod in 2010 was the figure 18 pst. of hysa and 27 pst. of the cod in 2011 was the figure 18 pst. of hysa and 30 pst. by the cod delivered in Finnmark. So where's this fish gone? It is delivered outside Finnmark, most likely at the freezer hotel for export to China. From this point of view, the government's fresh fish strategy is undermined, with the means given to strengthen jobs and the fishing industry. This is outrageous, but it's also tragic. This means, in practice, large-scale exports of workplaces out of Finnmark. The shipowners have seized an opportunity and found every loophole available to avoid delivery under the original delivery conditions. It is time for the authorities to revise the regulations and help to ensure that fish given to Finnmark are also delivered in Finnmark. The concessions were not mild gifts to shipping companies that would manage them at their discretion. It included commitments, namely that the fish should ensure employment in Finnmark. If the obligations are not met, and the social contract, the concessions should be withdrawn and re-allocated to boats that actually deliver in Finnmark. Trolleries with universal service claim that it is not profitable to deliver in Finnmark. It's strange that companies that don't have a single fish that guarantee delivery, but that have to compete for all the raw materials, profit and profitability. This means in clear terms that there are other enterprises that like to receive these quantities, which can further process the raw materials and create activity and increase their performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2567	I said in my main post that I would come back and explain what I said was wrong in the comments of the Right and Advance Party. The Council of State has now explained very well the errors that were in the comments, so I do not want to spend time on that. Frank Bakke-Jensen, far on the way, insinuated that the Workers' Party's representatives travel around the country and the beach and misinformed about who is responsible for the situation along the coast that the representative Ingelill Olsen just described very well. I really want to ask myself that, because it is actually the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen who travels, land and beach and the coast around and tries to dissuade himself from any responsibility in this matter. This is actually the way – and what I am saying now, is based on the challenge that the Progress Party and the representative Nesvik gave me – that when a system is put in place, the system itself is the one that produces the results we have now been described. Then it's not just to be able to put a line over it and make a new rule. It's actually like someone's been setting up after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2575	I want to tell you that when I am not so lucky to be called as an alternate at Stortinget, I am up in North Norway, where this with delivery conditions has been a very hot political topic for some time now. That is why I was very pleased that I got a meeting today, when this became a discussion in Stortinget. But I am not familiar with what has been the discussion there related to the delivery conditions. Therefore, this debate is important, important in the sense that there seems to be total agreement that the fact that the delivery conditions we are talking about here do not work according to the intentions that were laid down when the delivery conditions were introduced. The question then arises: What remedial measures can be used to achieve, at least in part, the desired effect at the time of the implementation of the supply conditions? What has been the problem with the debate from which I come is that, in fact, a strong message has been given that these supply conditions are broken. That is why I am very pleased with what the Council of State writes in a letter to the Committee, and has also repeated here in the Chamber today, that the delivery conditions, as is currently stated in the legislation, are not broken. Then I think it is a good idea not to send out a message in the industry that they are thought to be broken, and that this should be cleaned up. In the case of Svein Ludvigsen, former fisheries minister, and his changes, it may well have been that there were shortcomings in the points made by the opposition. However, it is a fact that when the changes were started, it is said that there were actually no enterprises in countries that made use of this raw material, and the Marine Association’s observation that only universal service was required at the minimum price, a significant factor for these changes. My main point is that the recognition that the intentions are not followed up is important. Then I find it regrettable that we will not discuss what remedial measures can be taken to get what we all want, namely a profitable fishing industry on the land side as well. Finally, this must not result in a future in which these allowances with delivery conditions become free allowances. Then you get a bias in distribution that is very unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2588	First, I have to clarify a manifest misunderstanding on the part of the representative of Irene Lange Nordahl. It is not that we are evading the changes made by Mr Ludvigsen or Mr Thor Listau, Minister for Fisheries. But what I started with was that the world is changing. In 2003, there was no problem; it was not a single filet installation that could not recover frozen raw material. No one complained that it was converted into a mandatory offer. This seemed to be a good arrangement, with the justification given by the representative Solsvik now – a market had to be given to create a better price for the raw material that was delivered. I agree with Mr Olsen's representative. What's important now is to look at the intention of that regulation. Industry depends on getting fresh raw materials on land to make use of it, because it is not possible to achieve profitability by producing frozen raw materials. That's what we've been asking for. Is it possible to take these delivery obligations, is it possible to take the regulation and see if it meets the intent, as the world looks today? I guess we don't think it does. So to the numbers and how much is landed in Finnmark, and how much is going on at the freezer hotel. It is also, in my opinion, a derailment of the debate to count the number of tonnes landed in Tromsø and the number of tonnes landed in Finnmark. The raw material landed is frozen, and it is not recovered, no matter where it ends up. The only thing that can be a requirement to get it landed in Finnmark is that it ends up in a freezer hotel there, and then we get a stock rental for it. It's a good store, but it's not a very good store. What we have asked for is that we look at the delivery obligations, look at an embellishment of this, so that, in consultation with industry and trawlers, we can get so much flexibility that we get suitable raw materials on land to produce quality products for the European market, possibly other markets. It is in Europe the fillet industry that makes money on fresh products. Many representatives have repeated here that the fillet industry in particular has not made any money. Well, that's not the whole truth. There are actors in the filet industry who have made money evenly. They have done so because they are good in the market, they have good products that are well received and that are well paid, and they have done so because they have secured regular deliveries throughout the year, so that they can care for a market throughout the year and are safe suppliers. That's a little bit of what we think it might have to be done to get more people to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2601	The situation we have had over the last years in Finnmark related to this field is politically unacceptable, and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast must review the regulations and ensure that the intention of the original concession conditions is met. The proposal on industrial quotas will exacerbate this already critical situation. Now it's time to make sure that those who deliver fresh fish get hold of this quantity that the trawls obviously don't want to deliver in Finnmark. They are actually not given for it to be delivered in Troms or any other places, they are given for it to be delivered in Finnmark. Norway has one advantage, we have high-quality fresh fish. But we also have a disadvantage, and that's that we're a high-cost country. We must not undermine our fresh fish strategy, that is the country's pressure. The right must stop defending what Ludvigsen has done; we now see the outcome of that policy. But I can agree with one thing: we should have grasped this development earlier. This robbery from Finnmark should have taken place, but it does not detract Svein Ludvigsen from the responsibility for the changes he has made. Trawlerships have seized an opportunity, and for a finnmarking it is actually not nice to look at what has happened. Bakke-Jensen asked the Minister for Fisheries if the conditions would be broken. No, the answer might be that they don't, because they're hollowed out. When 10 pst. of the chassis and 26 pst. by the cod is delivered in 2009, it is not possible to claim that the intentions of the concession terms have been followed up. It is possible that there is no legal breach, but the political intentions have not been followed up. When the law doesn't follow the policy, you have to do something about it, because it's not really the way the law is going to beat the policy. Remedies are not industrial quotas, but the best remedial measures in this case are tightening the regulations, and I hope we will see that soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2612	I would like to remind the representative, Ingelill Olsen, of the following: people live in places other than Finnmark, fishing elsewhere than in Finnmark – people live along the whole coast, we process fish along the whole coast, and we're still going to live there. It appears that the entire Norwegian fishing industry is only about Finnmark. Actually, it's not like that. I'm counting on the representative of Ingalill Olsen to accept that other communities in Norway are also living by processing fish and depending on raw materials in order to survive there. I just want to try to clarify a couple of obvious misunderstandings with the representative of Ingarill Olsen. There is nothing in the proposal that is being discussed that is linked to the introduction of more industrial quotas by the Right and the Advance Party. There is a proposal to ask the government to consider such a proposal. Once again, we hear representatives from the government parties talk about Svein Ludvigsen. In 2005 we received a government change – in 2005! How long are you going to be indebted to the former state councils? Until today, we have even heard that the fisheries ministers have been blamed for 30 years back in time. We have a red-green majority, now you have to start using that majority if you disagree, instead of blaming previous governments. You could perhaps accept it after one year, after two years, maybe even to the point after three years, but after seven years you should at least be able to get the policy in its own direction. After hearing the debate, it would be thought that there would be unanimity for the proposal that has been put forward, because the proposal is about asking the government to bring forward a case for the Storting where the delivery obligations are being reviewed. All parties have said that. Some say that they are broken, not legally – I am very pleased that the Council of State has settled – but then the representative from Finnmark comes and thunders and creates again doubts as to whether they are broken or not. In addition, she says that the intention is more important than the law. The law is based on the laws and regulations of the Stortinget and the Government. That's what's jus, it's supposed to interpret laws. Now the Council of State has to go to the pulpit and determine whether the delivery obligations are broken or not. I believe the Council of State has not followed up, so she will make suggestions to tighten it up, yes, it is time for us to hear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2623	To the representative Harald T. Nesvik and the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen, I can emphatically state that the arrangements for the changes that were made with the freezing and delivery and the obligation to offer are in themselves the problem. These are the arrangements put in place by the Right Minister for Fisheries, with which we are now struggling along the coast. There can be no doubt about it. It should not at least be granted in the name of fairness. It's not going to come by. The people know that along the coast. It is now important to address the situation and look at measures that lead to the landing of fish in the north and contribute to the creation of value on land in the north. An industrial quota system does not respond to these challenges but will exacerbate the situation. When the Right Party and the Advance Party ask the government to investigate this, I expect that the Right Party and the Advance Party actually stand for it and that it should be introduced. It can't be perceived in any other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2630	Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2633	It's actually the big, ugly wolf now probably not called Ludvigsen. I'm actually not sure what the big, ugly wolf is called in this debate. All I'm sure is that he's from China. The problem today is that frozen raw material has become a global commodity, so you can move it to China, produce it much cheaper than what we can in Norway, and then compete with us on the European market. That is why we have asked for a review of the delivery obligations, so that they become more appropriate in relation to the time we live in. Then I have to repeat that in 2003 there was not a single Norwegian fillet industry director who complained about the changes, because then everyone could use frozen raw material. We are not going to be able to do that in Norway today. That's the problem. That is why we are asking for an assessment of an amendment to the regulation so that it becomes more appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2640	Ingarill Olsen has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2643	To Nesvik first, I've just talked about fish that are given to Finnmark. We are so lucky in this country that we have a long coast where there is activity all along the coast. I have not commented on allowances given to any other states. And to my amazement, I do not hear that the FINNmarkingen Bakke-Jensen demands that fish given to Finnmark through concession conditions should also be delivered in Finnmark. I find that very strange and also a little sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2648	I note that the representative Nesvik is out showering with the springs from time to time, and he has done so for the benefit of today. When he then claims that this matter is mostly about North Norway, it is actually very natural, for the jet concessions that are on the West, there are no obligations with, largely. So it falls very naturally. So I want to say finally that it's the reasonable special thing to use a note from one of the two that we have, Aker and Nergård, a note from the Nergård group, as the basis for their comments. I think that's pretty special. But I guess you didn't realize that the representative who is standing here talking right now was sitting with the same note.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2655	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2659	The representative Lillian Hansen was wondering whether to shower with the springs or not. No, we're trying to point out the differences here. So what's this really going to be equal to? That's what's weird. I tried to challenge the representative Hansen on that, and not least the Council of State, who now has to come to the pulpit and clarify or confirm what this debate brings. Now, the Council of State has to come to this pulpit and tell us if it is the reality description of the representative, Ingelill Olsen, who is the government's position. Because now it's created so much doubt, because it's a completely different description of reality than the state council used in its post. You can't just stand on the pulpit and make a number of claims that you've broken your intentions and delivery terms. It's very serious, and then you have to withdraw it. Now the council must respond and come here and tell us what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2664	Irene Lange Nordahl has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2667	It has been said on several occasions from the pulpit of the members of the government parties that it is the very arrangement that is the problem, and I would like to stress this again here from the pulpit when the representative Harald T. Nesvik questions what the problem is. It is the very system that the Minister of Fisheries of the Right introduced in his time, which is the problem, and which they thus create problems around. There's no doubt about it, and if the representative Harald T. Nesvik listens to what's being said, that's what's underlined in all the speeches by the government parties here from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2672	I thought it was just me having a bad flu and a bad hearing here, but I'm beginning to think that there might be more people struggling right away! I would like to repeat what I said in reply to direct questions about breach of the current legislation. I am not aware that there is a breach of the current delivery obligations. Then I'm talking about legal violation. I'm set to manage the legislation, and there's a lot of juice. It's being checked to point and point. Then we're going to wait for the careful and extra thorough control of the delivery obligations, but then we're going to talk about the legal side of it. What Mr. Ingenill Olsen and many others are talking about is intention, and there's something quite different. I would like to repeat what I said in Ålesund, what I have said in Finnmark, and what I have said in Nordland: I understand Finnmark who wants that fish on land in Finnmark. Then we fully agree that there are industry other places on the coast, among other things. in More and Romesdal, which is based on the frozen fish. But here I think it's actually going to be enough fish for everyone. The point is that we have to get it landed in such a state that the different parts of the industry can benefit from it. Then there is no doubt that the world has changed. It has also done so within the seafood market. That's the background for what we've been doing to look at further use of frozen raw materials in this industry. The last time I was in Finnmark, I heard more people who are now considering starting up e.g. cuttlefish production in Finnmark. I don't think there is any law of nature that says that all the rockfish must be produced south of the country. I also think it is possible in Finnmark. I have a great deal of understanding for Finnmark, Troms and Nordland, all on the coast, that what is of raw materials and raw materials, whether it is in the petroleum or seafood sector, is going to provide jobs on land where the raw materials and the raw materials are found. I have great sympathy for that. I'm working to have an industry both in North Norway, Middle Norway and South Norway. We have challenges related to the sector further south of the country as well. Again – I just have to repeat what I said, that I am not aware that there is any breach. But I think everyone agrees that we need to get a better situation, because it's unreasonable that people should go out on leave in Nordland, Troms or Finnmark when they see the raw material passing on their berth. I have a great deal of understanding that it feels extremely frustrating. That's why what I'm saying I'm going to look at absolutely all of the proposals to provide a better situation for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2687	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2693	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2876	It is added to Sections 7, 28 and 29 The right has announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 57 votes were cast against and 24 votes in favour of the Committee's nomination to Sections 7, 28 and 29. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 19.19.04]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2887	We have to think of this as a trial run, because there are simply too few people in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2890	I think it's a part that hasn't pressed the screen, but that's pressed the button, and so we've fallen out of the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2895	The Progress Party will also vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2900	So let's try this one more time. Let's do that. It sounded like a good explanation from the Olemic Thommessen. So let's try it again. We're still on case number. 2nd@item: inlistbox It is added to Sections 7, 28 and 29. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2915	The rest of I will be voted on with the corrections under Section 9 which were explained during the debate, as well as II.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2925	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e2935	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3091	It is contested in the third paragraph of Section 77. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3106	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3116	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3126	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3309	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3319	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3327	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's proposal No 1, by Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2–4, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 5-12, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a temporary regulation allowing long-term children and children’s families with a final refusal to be converted. The Regulation shall specify that children are considered to have special ties with the Kingdom if they have been in Norway for more than three years. The same applies to parents without a work permit or a day-to-day residence permit for such children.» The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3357	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the posting of children who have lived in Norway for more than three years to be suspended until the child-breeding notification has been processed.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3374	There is a vote on proposal No. Seven from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here, the third and fourth sentences of Paragraph 38 shall be replaced by the following: The more important the decision is for the child, the more important it is to give priority to immigration-regulating considerations. A refusal on grounds of immigration regulation must be sound from a child law point of view.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3393	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the access of non-residents to the kingdom and their residence here, the second paragraph of Section 38 shall be replaced by the following: In order to determine whether there are strong human interests or whether there is a particular connection with the kingdom, an overall assessment of the case shall be carried out. Among other things, attention may be paid to (a) whether the stranger is a single minor without proper care on return; (b) whether there are compelling health conditions which make the stranger need residence in the kingdom; (c) whether there are social or humanitarian conditions in the return situation that provide the basis for granting a residence permit; (d) whether the stranger has been a victim of trafficking in human beings; or (e) the residence of the foreigner in the Kingdom.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3422	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to specify what falls under the concept of ‘immigration regulatory considerations’.’» The right and Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3439	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that those staying illegally in the country are entitled to health care in addition to emergency care where this is necessary to avoid serious consequences for the person himself or others.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3456	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the regulations on fixed-term schemes in the municipalities so that all children residing in a Norwegian municipality are entitled to be on the list of permanent residents.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3475	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for procedures to be put in place to verify that those who are being forced to return are not being persecuted.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3494	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the necessary changes to the asylum policy to ensure that people living in Norway have fundamental humanitarian rights, security and predictable lives.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate the legal working of undocumented immigrants and to pay taxes until the known date of departure.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a regularisation for paperless immigrants.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3527	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:13 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3548	During the debate, Frank Bakke-Jensen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider proposing amendments to Law 17 June 1966 No. 19 on the prohibition on foreigners from fishing, etc. in Norway’s territorial waters, providing for equal treatment of Norwegian citizens’ rights and opportunities to work on Norwegian fishing vessels. This shall be without prejudice to the nationality requirement for fish quotas.’;» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3581	During the debate, Frank Bakke-Jensen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:26 S [[2011-2012]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3594	The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3611	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 3 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from the Right and the Christian People's Party has been converted into a transmission proposal during the debate. Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to ensure that the bankline fleet quota ceiling is increased to 5.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended to the Government to investigate an increase in the quota ceiling for the bankline fleet to 5 allowances and return to the Stortinget with proposals for measures that may increase the profitability of this fleet group.’; The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3643	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for equal structuring opportunities for coastal fishing vessels over 15 metres by spring 2012. The scheme shall take into account the 3 + 3 principle.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a restructuring scheme also for the smaller part of the fishing fleet that does not currently have such schemes. The case is brought before the Storting in the spring of 2012.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3670	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by the representative, Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asking the Government to bring proceedings for the Storting in which the delivery obligations are reviewed with a view to providing industry and fleeting more flexibility in the exploitation of the fish raw material, in order to facilitate compliance with the purpose of the regulation on vessels with cod trawl permits. In the case, proposals should be considered to allow industry to rent out parts of the quotas with delivery obligations to coastal vessels, while extending the random fishing system.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3685	The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-19.ana.ud2542e3845	Thus, today's map has been processed Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
