ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e137	Honourable co-representatives! Former Stable Representative Johannes Vågsnes is dead, almost 89 years old. Johannes Vågsnes represented East-Agder Christian People's Party on the Stortinget from 1973 to 1985. Johannes Vågsnes was born on 7 March 1923 and grew up on Tromøya at Arendal. From 1946 he was a farmer in Gjerstad. Next to that he was clocks in the Tromøy congregation for more than 30 years and teaches in primary and secondary school for more than ten years. The awakenings had a strong local involvement in both community and organization life throughout the year, and in local politics he had a number of jobs within many different disciplines. In 1951 he was elected to the Municipality of Tromøy, where he was later a member of the Presidency. For eight years from 1963 he was the county representative of East Agder. In the autumn of 1946 he participated in the formation of the East Agder Christian People's Party, and a few years later the local team of the party on Tromøya, where he was also the first president of the party. His agricultural background also led him into the representation of the Norwegian Bondelag and as rapporteur in Norsk Eggsentraler. In 1973, Johannes Vågsnes was elected to the Grand Duchy, which he had for twelve years. In all these years he was a member of the then Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. It was this that became his arena, and here he made a solid effort. He was heavily interested in the environment and occupied by local government and district development. His interests in these areas also continued after his career was over. He was, among other things, Member of the District Development Fund Council, Chairman of the Hardangervidda Council and member of the Management Board of the Bank of Norway, Section Arendal. Those who worked with Johannes Wagsnes in Stortinget remember him as an incomparable and pleasant person, who did the tasks he was given in a thorough and proper way. He stood up for what he believed in, and ventured to stand for his own opinions. We remember John Awakens for his activity in the Greatness, and are at peace with his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e160	Two permit applications are available: from the representative Freddy de Ruiter on parental leave from 10 April to 27 April from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of Representative Christian Tybring-Gjede from 10 April to 13 April to take part in meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Marseille, France. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: for the Province of East-Agder: Line Vennesland 10–26. April For Oslo: Sylvi Listhaug 11-12. April
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e189	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e192	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Siv Jensen, Per Arne Olsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself for a complete review of the management of the hospital sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e197	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e200	I would like to propose, on behalf of the big business representatives Nikolai Astrup, Svein Flätten, Svein Harberg and myself, the use of fiscal measures to stimulate climate-friendly investments in own-dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e205	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e209	I would like to make two motions for a resolution. On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun, Per Sandberg, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I am promoting the introduction of tax deductions for craft services and service assignments carried out in owner-occupied housing and recreational housing. I am promoting the second proposal on behalf of Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim, Kenneth Svendsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and myself on efficiency gains in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e218	The representative Per Sandberg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e221	On behalf of Bård Hoksrud and myself, I am not pleased to propose an ICT-hazard commission and enhanced privacy, but out of necessity.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e226	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President makes Stortinget aware that we will vote soon, so I ask that we until case no. 1 has been treated, is decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e242	Two members and two alternates shall be elected to the Election Committee and the President shall request proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e245	It is asked whether I should not read this proposal slowly, so that we become decisive again. The proposal is: As members Audun Lysbakken and Karin Andersen and as alternates Geir-Ketil Hansen and Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e252	Audun Lysbakken and Rannveig Kvifte Andresen are proposed as members, and Snorre Serigstad Valen and Geir-Ketil Hansen are proposed as alternates to the electoral committee. – Other proposals are not available and the President assumes that it can be put to the vote in the usual manner. Aksel Hagen is asking for the floor. He's changed his mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e257	There are errors in the papers - it says Rannveig Kflufte Andresen. But it is – as I said, I think – Karin Andersen who is our proposal, next to Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e262	The President did not intend to promote an alternative proposal, so we take note of the proposal made by the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e282	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e296	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e310	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e324	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e338	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e354	A large group of chronic pain patients have a poor offer. To make this visible, I'm going to produce a story about a 35-year-old man who just before Christmas came to the pain department at Oslo University Hospital. He brought an ambulance plane, which was the only safe way to travel. Before this he had been hospitalized for five weeks in a local hospital somewhere else in the country, where health professionals had tried to reduce his intense pain as best they could. They had tried most of it. He's lived in a pain nightmare for six years. The local hospital staff had tried to transfer him to a better treatment facility and had been in contact with several regional hospitals to see if they could accept the patient. None of the hospitals wanted because they lacked knowledge and treatment. At Oslo University Hospital, they said they were willing to accept him, but only outpatient. He was therefore accommodated at the patient hotel. Because he depended on care, his mother had to fly to Oslo from a third country to be accommodated in the son's double room at the hotel. This young man has a wife and more children, and the pain is in the process of destroying the whole family. He cannot be a father to his children and feels that the situation in practice is a burden to the whole family, and he himself is deeply depressed. In the Rikshospitalet he got a couple of outpatient hours in between other already appointed patients, and on the morning of the third day he was transported back to his local hospital. There he is still admitted, without any good offer, and without the pain being treated. He is waiting for further investigation of his pain as well as a broad multidisciplinary offer. This is the story of a patient who needs a treatment offer that does not exist in Norway today. Unfortunately, his story is not unique; there are many in his situation. Today, no one knows how many people are as severely in pain as this man, and that is among other things. therefore the treatment settings require a quality register. But we know that a large proportion of the population have long-standing pains and are major consumers of health care and social security benefits. This is a complex group of people with different stories and disease images. There are cancer patients, there are patients with muscle and skeletal disorders, and there are patients with mental and somatic disorders. There are strong stories about people who have a lot of stress and significantly reduced quality of life. Author Mette Grøhoutt wrote a price-rewarded chronicle for a while back where she described an experience of being one of the mute plagues – those who do not compete with emergency workers in the ransom papers and who are not visible in health care priorities. Many of them are healthy for serious illness, but are nevertheless not healthy. Many of these patients are long-term ill-treated, out of work and suffer from poor living conditions that worsen the situation. The large study Pain Proposal shows that 25 pst. chronic pain patients report having lost their job due to the pain. All 50 pst. of all default decisions is caused by chronic pain and is the main cause of the disability. For the individual, this means that they lose the opportunity to participate and contribute to the labour market, and that they no longer get to be part of the social community at work. In addition, society loses important resources. The incidence of chronic pain in children and adolescents is poorly monitored in Norway, but some surveys suggest that more and more children are struggling with pain and that younger and younger age groups are being affected. A study of 12- to 15-year-olds in South Trundelag and North Trundelag shows that 17 pst. were regularly affected by headache, stomach pain, back pain or pain in the arms and legs. The consumption of painkillers among 15- to 16-year-olds is high and has increased significantly in the last 10 years. So long-term pain affects a large part of the population. Almost regardless of the extent of pain problems, they face a health service that lacks competence and treatment. Those with extensive pain problems often experience long-term hospital stays, without getting a satisfactory result. Primary health services see the need to interact with a multidisciplinary pain clinic in their morbidity area, but there are several hospital areas lacking in multidisciplinary treatment. Among other things, Sørlanden Hospital had planned to set up a multidisciplinary pain department, but that effort was removed from the budget earlier this year. Since 2007, the mission documents of the Ministry of Health and Welfare have formulated a formulation to improve the situation of pain patients by increasing the competence and capacity of hospitals, without significantly improving the supply. This year there is no such wording in the mission documents. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to comment on the background to this and ask whether increased competence and increased capacity in pain management are no longer a priority task. Professional environments demand broad efforts to improve skills and education provision and to ensure an equivalent and medically satisfactory diagnosis and treatment provision across the country. In addition, they consider that there is a need for regional and national network functions to ensure the transfer of competences to all levels of healthcare. There is also a need to ensure the development of competences in specific populations, such as: as regards the treatment of children. Untreated pain in children and young people has been demonstrated to be crucial to their ability to adapt to society, to complete schooling and to participate in the labour market. I will praise Health South-East, who in winter has developed a guide for offering to patients with long-lasting pain. They recommend, inter alia: the establishment of multidisciplinary pain clinics in each morbidity area that can treat pain problems that cannot be adequately managed in the community health service or in the other specialist healthcare service. They recommend a minimum of competence in the context of a multidisciplinary pain clinic which shall also contribute to the ability of local medical centres to clarify and treat simpler pain conditions. They recommend further developing the regional competence centre for the treatment of long-term pain associated with the Oslo University Hospital Pain Treatment Department, and the regional competence centre can strengthen the knowledge base for pain management through research, multidisciplinary professional development and network functions. They also recommend that the centre of expertise establish professional networks covering the whole of the health region, that deadlines be set in line with the prioritisation guide, and finally that funding should strengthen the establishment and operation of multidisciplinary pain clinics. These are proposals and recommendations supported by the Right. I want to challenge the Minister of Health to take up the recommendations made by Health South-East, and let it become guiding and valid for the whole country. However, it assumes that funds will be set aside to implement the initiative. Professional environments demand national, professional guidance for pain treatment, and I would ask the Minister of Health to ensure that these are developed. It could contribute to a more equal treatment wherever you live in the country. It is important to ensure better capacity in the provision of pain patients. At least as important is ensuring good quality. We have to make sure that the help actually helps. In addition, we need to ensure patient safety in a better way than today. If we are to contribute to ensuring good quality, it is essential to increase our competence significantly. Determiners are the first line towards patients, and they must have the necessary knowledge to assess the pain and health status of patients. About 50 pst. of all the deliberations of the authorising officer concerned are pain. Nevertheless, only a few hours of pain management instruction are given in the medical study. It is necessary to strengthen the competence of the deputies in interpreting and understanding chronic pain. This is not least important when municipal health and care services are to take greater responsibility for patients with chronic disorders as part of the Cooperation Reform. This is a neglected area of healthcare, and I look forward to hearing the Minister of Health's answers to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e403	It's estimated that up to 30 pst. the adult population suffers from chronic pain conditions. Long-term pain conditions may have many causes, and different approaches are needed. The establishment of multi-disciplinary settings that can educate patients and provide advice and guidance to healthcare has been important. There has been increasing attention to chronic pain. The theme is now included in basic training for medical students and should also be included in specialist training for a number of specialities. The Health Directorate will now review the current specialist structure and assess the need for changes, taking into account the need for specialists in the future. Treatment of chronic pain is a multidisciplinary task. Medical specialists, psychologists, physiotherapists and nurses are relevant professional groups in such cooperation. Professional environments have indicated that it may be appropriate to establish a so-called field of competence in medicine for this area. The Health Directorate is testing such a model for relief treatment and will evaluate other disciplines. The government has paid special attention to patients with chronic pain, including: through the governance message of regional health enterprises. Here I have asked that they report specifically on the offer to this patient group. All regional health businesses have made efforts to strengthen the supply of patients with chronic pain, mentioned in the 2012 State budget. However, the essential part of the treatment must be provided in the primary health service, with professional guidance from the specialist health service. And there is a need to focus on increasing knowledge of chronic pain among general practitioners and other community health professionals. To ensure that we have enough and competent carers, we have significantly strengthened the annual work effort. We'll allocate about 300 million. kr annually for measures of competence in the care sector. According to Section 7 of the Ordinance, the prescribers are responsible for the provision of the general medical service to persons on their list. Responsibilities include: planning and coordination of individual prevention, investigation and treatment. Furthermore, the prescriber is responsible for the patient’s history and medical records. The responsibility of the determining physician is further specified in draft revised legislative regulation which has now been consulted. Investigation and diagnosis of chronic pain conditions is complicated and time consuming. Good interaction between the primary and specialist health services and good coordination by the co-ordinator is important. Reference to the specialist health service, if necessary, is included in the requirements for the safety of health professionals’ professional activities, as set out in: Section 4 of the Health Care Act. Research suggests that referrals from the decision-makers do not always contain the information the recipient needs to consider further action. In order to meet this, the Ministry proposes to impose requirements on the quality of referrals made by the permanent staff member in the draft revised statutory regulation. In the examination the authorised representative refers to, the prescribers themselves have expressed the need for more knowledge of chronic pain conditions. The decision-makers are primarily generalists, and they are expected to have good knowledge in a number of areas. This places great demands on the maintenance and updating of knowledge. By the end of 2010, there were about 62 pst. by permanent medical specialists in general medicine. Recertification is required every five years to maintain the speciality of general medicine, which also allows for immersion. In line with the Interaction Reform, a greater proportion of the services in the years to come will be provided in the municipal health and care service. This means increasing the need for expertise and research in several disciplines in municipal health and care services, including general medicine. There is also a need to build up and strengthen the research infrastructure. Many general practitioners often experience that their knowledge base is lacking in day-to-day practice. This applies, inter alia, to: for muscle and skeletal disorders and mental disorders. These are the most common types of diagnosis in general practice and the main causes of long-term sickness absence. Four general medical research units have been established in connection with the medical faculties of the universities of Bergen, Oslo, Tromsø and Trondheim. These started in 2006, and carry out research on a number of issues, including interaction. The Health Directorate is following up and coordinating its activities. The State budget is allocated to basic/further development of the research units. In addition, efforts are being made to strengthen other research and knowledge development in municipal health and care services. The new Health and Care Services Act gives municipalities responsibility for research. The aim is to ensure that municipalities carry out a certain activity that can support research into the provision of municipal health and care services. The local cooperation agreements between health enterprises and municipalities shall also include research. Living with chronic pain is a heavy burden on the individual, and several measures are in place to improve the provision of this patient group. All regional health establishments have worked to strengthen the supply of patients with chronic pain, and in all counties multi-disciplinary pain clinics, except two, have been established. It is important that health care establishments ensure that pain clinics have sufficient resources and interdisciplinary competence. The Health Directorate has created its own priority guide for pain conditions. The Ministry has also commissioned the Directorate to assess the relevance of developing national professional guidelines in this field. Such guidelines must also say something about interaction between community health services, interdisciplinary pain clinics and specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e437	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we agree on the challenges that lie here. I also heard the Council of State come up with a number of concrete things that are being done, and that offers are being built up. But the trade union community believes that this is not enough. If I understood correctly, she will ensure that national, professional guidelines for pain treatment are developed. I would ask the Council of State to confirm it. I think it's important, because it'll help increase the competence and quality of pain management. As I was told, it is also a strong desire from the trade unions to ensure almost equal treatment across the country. Both pain clinics and contract specialists are now helping to achieve health policy objectives of providing patients with better and more holistic health services without hospitalisation. However, if pain clinics and contract specialists are to contribute to a better offer, the funding system must also be provided for this. Several patient enquiries have made it known that in some cases drug treatment in pain clinics falls outside today’s reimbursement schemes. One specific case was a patient who needed high doses of painkillers. If she was to be reimbursed for the costs, she had to take the drugs herself to the pharmacy and bring them to the pain clinic. However, this was considered irresponsible by the doctor because the doses were potentially dangerous. If the doctor himself distributed and administered the drug, the patient did not receive reimbursement. I would like to ask the state council to comment on whether she wants to change the system so that a therapist at the pain clinics can provide the same pain treatment with reimbursement as those in the hospital. The right has previously taken this up with the Council of State, but unfortunately we did not get a hearing for this. But I have a hope that it is possible to change my perception. This is at least a paradox in the light of the Interaction Reform, which should contribute to better treatment outside hospitals. I also believe that if we do not ensure that patients have good access to new, safe and effective public health care treatment, it could contribute to a more classed healthcare service. Those who have good finances can buy good treatment, while others can't do this. This may particularly affect pain patients who often have reduced income due to their health status. So our common goal must be to give patients with chronic pain better quality of life and more vitality. It will also give society greater sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e454	Let me first sign out the payment system, which you had to change. To that, I just want to say that if it is such that it is obstructing the payment system, we have to make changes to it. At least I'll take that with me. So I actually think it's been done, and that it's done, a lot. It appeared in the Annual Communication 2010–2011, which came to the Ministry in 2011, that this was an area in which regional health businesses had invested and developed well. And, as I said, there were also established multidisciplinary pain clinics associated with health care companies in all states except two. I fully agree that it is important to get this anywhere. It is also appropriate to consider national guidelines. I just have to say that it's not just a simple matter to make these guidelines, because in the case of pain patients, it's about a lot of different groups of patients – who were also involved in the interpellant in their first post. It concerns cancer patients, in the case of rheumatic patients, and in the case of neurological disorders. There are many types of patients that cannot necessarily be treated in just one way — and there are many different types of competence to enter. That doesn't mean that we're not going to make better guides and guidelines, because that's a good way to get skills out, for example. determines, but what is important, and in which I very much agree with the interpellant, is to create a system that creates the good interaction between the hospital and the municipality, so that there is enough competence in the municipality, with the firmer in particular, to refer correctly and to provide good treatment over time when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e463	Thanks to the inter-pellant who addresses a topic that affects many – and a lot of women – but many do not shout very loudly about. I think it is good that such issues come on the agenda at regular intervals here in the Chamber, and that the debate can make visible whether we are able to make a better offer and a better everyday life for those who are struggling. It is the silent group, and therefore it is important that we are a speaker. The causes of pain can be many. Having chronic pain affects your whole life, not only those who are affected, but also those who are around. Active participation in society or in the labour market can be difficult, and too many people are affected by survival. Different medications, treatments and good tips are used to try everything to be good. Many people live with disappointment when nothing works. Physical plagues quickly become psychic, and one is inside a vicious circle. One can only imagine the despair when nothing works. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is Pain clinics can be an alternative, but not everyone can get there, which is also the interpellant denominator. The waiting times are often long, and not everyone who is referred to also comes in after assessment. It is therefore important to have different approaches to the problems, and it is important to have a wide range of options that cover several issues. Increased knowledge and focus on health education are also necessary. There may be anything from the proper use of drugs, proper reference to physiotherapy, to the use of relaxation exercises or group therapy. Physical activity can help someone, while others need rest. Therefore, knowledge of pain is important. A multidisciplinary approach to both doctors, manual therapists and psychomotor interventions can be an alternative. I have been concerned about this matter for a long time. Already in the 2006 mission document, there was a specific requirement to strengthen the provision of chronic pain patients. Among other things, it said:\t\t You can change the ‘in interaction with primary health services, the provision of chronic pain patients is strengthened. [[...]] Adequate skills and capacity shall be provided to meet the challenges in this area, including: at the pain clinics.» We're not there yet, unfortunately. The Council of State shows in its article how this is now, and that she follows this closely up. I'm very pleased with that. Many people need a better offer, and therefore it is important to have an increased focus on this. Pain is a subjective experience, and it is often difficult to diagnose. That's also why it's so hard for the many with chronic pains to get a good offer. In the magazine Glimt, the member of the Society for Chronic Pain Patients, you can read about the different methods that can improve the quality of life. One method is cognitive therapy, which can help in everyday life, and when we talk about a good day, it is too many not a painless day, but a day with less pain. Having additional concerns about the economy, follow-up of children and working conditions can in turn increase pain. That's why it's also important that public agencies, like Nav, are a piece of dealing with everyday life. Forged solutions and good follow-up are important, and it is not least to be believed and taken seriously a contribution to mastering. The time to listen to it is important — and also the follow-up of patients who need it. References are good, but it doesn't help much if you don't get there. We've seen medication can be a danger in itself if it becomes the only option. Unfortunately, we have seen that many have become dependent on medication, which is an additional burden on pain. Therefore, as the Council of State said, knowledge of pain is so important to get in place. Health centres and self-help groups, which municipalities can offer, can also contribute to a better everyday life, and low-threshold services that doctors are familiar with should be part of the offered. I am very pleased that it is considered to develop national guidelines where one looks at contexts and interactions, because in this field it is important that things work together. Better knowledge and a variety of services are important both for society and for individuals and not least for the quality of life of individuals. The most important thing is perhaps learning to deal with pain, for a painless everyday life can be a utopia for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e494	Chronic pain affects about 30 p.m. of the adult population and is the main cause of long-term sick leave and disability. The incidence is increasing with age, and women are more vulnerable than men. The most frequent chronic pain conditions occur in muscles and skeletons. Most often, these are non-specific back and neck pains and other pains of unknown or complex cause. I think we all know people who have been in and out of treatment of different kinds, for example. physiotherapy, which works for a period, and back to work, but then back with the same back pain, without us ever going to aim to eliminate the causes. The consumption of analgesics and numbers also from other countries suggests that chronic pain is sometimes common in childhood and, unfortunately, quite common in childhood. The consumption of these painkillers is high and has increased in recent years. Unfortunately, it is often found, after long-term studies of children and young people, that these actually do not fail physically, but that the chronic pain is simply about bullying, anxiety and dismay at school. Knowledge about this seems inadequate, while I assume that there is a cross-political consensus about the importance of competence and vigilance around this particular thing as well. As I see the situation in Norway, chronic pain is poorly monitored. The presence of many disease conditions that cause chronic pain is unknown. As a result, there is no basis for saying whether the incidence has changed particularly over time. But we know that chronic pain increases the risk of reduced mental health, and that the risk of dependence on addictive drugs is very high. This is not about the need to rush, but that the amount of medicine has been too high for too long. Chronic pain patients have two to four times higher incidences of anxiety and depression and have twice as high incidence of suicide as the general population. Sleep problems are very common. I have met with people who suffer from amalgam poisoning several times. They have in common that it seems impossible to make a diagnosis. They live with great pain and various pains, while feeling that they are not believed. There is no proper treatment, and you try and fail yourself. They themselves say that many who have been in the same situation as them have committed suicide. Living with pain constantly at the same time as not being believed becomes simply unbearable for some. Chronic pain, as mentioned above, is the most frequent cause of long-term sickness absence and disability in Norway today. Analysis of the 2005 Levy Year Survey data shows that chronic pain explains 54 pst. in cases of disability, and pain is probably the most common cause of patients seeking health care. So really, this is a pretty big theme. It is therefore very important, in the view of the Progress Party, to focus on the issue and identify who and which groups do not actually have an alternative treatment option, such as drug users. those with damage to the jaw. Debates in this room have been going on for years, but some remain excluded from treatment, help and understanding. It's like politicians hurt to meet these people and couldn't give them hope for anything better. The Minister of Health still claims that everyone should get an offer. In fact, some people take up several hundred thousand dollars in loans and travel abroad. These would hardly have been in debt if the aid were actually found in the Norwegian health system. Too many painkillers are the only thing that works. Unfortunately, these work well only for a shorter period of time, but give rise to a high risk of familiarisation and addiction. Then new problems and challenges arise, which the health service is not so very good at following up or taking seriously. Some people feel trapped in a system where they are told to get help, but where they feel that little happens. The Health Minister outlined a number of measures in his speech, but much of this has been heard before, and it is difficult to be very optimistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e524	A 2006 survey shows that Nordics have chronic pain to a greater extent than other Europeans. While one in five on the continent suffers from chronic pain, one in three Nordics are affected. That means that as many as a million Northmen can be affected by chronic pain to varying degrees. This is a complex group of people with different stories and different disease images. There are cancer patients, there may be patients with muscle and skeletal disorders, and there are patients with mental or somatic disorders. The Government Parties decided in the context of the State Budget for 2010 to wind up the Outpatient Physiotherapy Reimbursement Scheme. The right and the other bourgeois parties voted against this, because we feared a cut in many important offers, including: for patients with chronic pain. Unfortunately, we have got right in this. For example, an offer for treatment in hot water basins has been reduced or closed in a number of places in the country. This affects, for example: patients with musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders who are fully dependent on this offer to function in everyday life and at work. So what happens at the same time as the government talks about interaction is that the interaction about these patients gets worse. Right-wing leader Erna Solberg addressed this with the Minister of Health and Welfare in his own interview two years ago and challenged the Council of State to ensure the financing and continuation of these important offers. The Council of State promised to reconsider the issue at the time, but unfortunately this has not produced any results so far. This is a treatment that is essential for patients’ health and quality of life, and therefore for patients’ ability to master everyday life and work. It also takes too much time for new drugs and treatment services to benefit patients. To ensure the quality of all equivalent health services, we also need to provide rapid and good access to effective and safe treatment services. With today’s system, it may take several years from the Medical Products Agency to recommend reimbursement of a drug until the patient actually receives this in support of the treatment. This is because the government has not given priority to providing funds for these new treatment services. This leads to greater burden on patients and higher costs for healthcare and for society. In such cases, there is no question of affording to give the patient better treatment, but of affording not to, and then I think of both human and financial costs. Right-wing promotion last year of a proposal in the Grand Duchy on faster and better access to medicines. We proposed, among other things: all medicinal products recommended for reimbursement shall be mentioned in the State budget. It is quite right that the Stortinge should give priority to medicinal products and other health measures, but the Stortinge must also know the basis for its priorities. In that case, one must also know which treatment services our professional authorities recommend to provide support for and for which the government may choose not to give priority. Unfortunately, our proposals to have this information in the context of the state budget have been voted down, but fortunately there is a broad consensus on this among our counterparts in the opposition. When looking at the situation of the pain patients, there are just challenges associated with this being a complex group of patients. It is a patient group that suffers in many ways in silence and for which no one speaks. There is also a group of patients for whom quite complex and complex services are required in order for them to actually receive help. I am very pleased with this interpellation debate. I hope that it can also lead to more attention being paid to pain patients, and that one takes into account when developing health policies in all those areas where there is a real need to make improvements for these patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e541	I also want to thank the interpellant for taking up an important field of health. It concerns a large group of people and a field where we're not good enough for prevention, and a group of patients who don't get adequate follow-up when it comes to diagnostics and treatment. When we operate with numbers like that 30 pst. of the adult population lir of chronic pain conditions, it shows that we have a significant public health problem. It puts us at the top of pain statistics of countries in Europe. While one in five on the continent suffered from chronic pain, one in three suffered from chronic pain in Norway. As many representatives have noted, pain causes debilitating plagues and is probably an important cause of sick leave. It is also a fact that patients with chronic pain are often struggling with social and economic problems, and that one in four informs that they have lost their job because of the pain. These patients can make up a total of 50 pst. by decisions of the Court of Justice of the It shows you a little bit of how serious this is. An article in Today’s Medisin in the fall contains a statistics that show that it takes up to seven years from the onset of symptoms to the completion of diagnostics and treatment, and that it is significantly longer than the average otherwise in Europe. It shows that we need to focus more on this patient group on both diagnosis and treatment. I would like to thank the Council of State for her answer, and I agree with the need to strengthen both the supply of specialist services and the management of pain patients in the fastages. It is positive that it is now being assessed to develop professional guidelines. But the most important question we need to answer is why it is that the Nordics have the worst of all in Europe, and whether we can do more to improve prevention. There are many kinds of reasons for this — how much connection does it have with a low level of activity in the population, for example.? Another question is why we have had a doubling in the use of painkillers by young people since 2000. Is it so that today's youth has twice as hurt as they had ten years ago? This is shown in an article in Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association No. 15 in August 2009. Speak there is that 70 pst. by 16-year-old girls and 50 pst. by the boys use non-prescription painkillers monthly. But one of four guys, so 25 pst. by boys, and 26 pst. by the girls taking painkillers daily. It's not quite normal, I thought. This shows that it is important that we also look at actions for this group and look at the reasons why it has become so. Young people report very little drinking at school and irregular eating as a cause. You can do something about it. It is a fact that excessive use of analgesics in itself can give headaches. The Medical Products Agency operates with figures that tell that 30,000 Norwegians suffer from drug-induced main works. Changes in lifestyle may in many cases be better treatments for these than tablets. More physical activity is also a very important measure — and more important than we think. We also need to talk about tails. When I was going to google my articles today, there was an advertisement for painkillers on the Internet page. In the shops we cover for snuff, while the Paraceten stands and lights up against us. I'm not going to go into the storeroom, but it might do something about the grips of these drugs, that they're easy to take, but maybe not always so clever to use. We need to look at our central objective of medical policy, namely to ensure proper use – especially for those young people who use painkillers quite frequently. What the interpellant picks up is more about the chronic pain patients – and I'm not going to take focus away from them. It is important to ensure a better supply for that group, so that it does not take so long before they get the right diagnosis, and that they become more visible as patients. We also need to focus on that in our health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e564	First, I would like to thank interpellant Sonja Irene Sjøli for raising this important matter and the debate today. Since 2007, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, through the mission documents, has commissioned regional health businesses to strengthen the supply of patients with chronic pain – both capacity and competence. But in this year's mission document, the patient group is not mentioned – which I find very regrettable. In written questions from me, dated 30 June 2009, I asked Minister of Health and Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen how the offer of pain patients was handled in the various regional health companies. He admitted that they were not followed up well enough, despite clear instructions in the mission documents. But he also replied that the Ministry of Health and Welfare had now met with regional health companies – i.e. in 2009 – and he assured that the offer of patients with chronic pain should be followed up by the Department. Fortunately, something has happened, but today's debate shows that it is not enough. Like others who have spoken here today, I am very pleased that the Council of State signals that there will be national, professional guidelines. I think there is a strong need for that. There is a wide variation in the supply of patient groups based on where they live in the country. There are several counties who do not yet have a good offer for the patient groups. The interpellant mentioned interpellant among others: Southern Hospital HF. They have removed a planned multidisciplinary pain ward from the current year's budget. The result is that patients belonging to the Southern Hospital must be transferred to other hospitals, which have not planned for these patients. This leads again to longer waiting times. Children are also a group with special needs for pain management. The causes of pain in children are often complex. A multidisciplinary treatment device, including: Therefore, doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and psychologists/psychists are essential. I would like to ask the Minister of Health today whether she wants to refocus pain patients in the mission documents, because that is the way things are going to be prioritised. It is easier to implement it than it does not – although, according to the Council of State, it is quite well done, and it is fine. But there is too much variation in the competence and offer in our country. The professionals want more focus on this. Like the interpellant, I will also refer to the supervisor as a working group in Health South-East developed in 2011. It is exciting reading, and it has many good suggestions. In addition to the proposal for multidisciplinary pain clinics in each morbidity area – i.e. more than in each country – they point out the need for multidisciplinary teams in different disciplines. These consist of minimum medical specialists, specialist nurses, psychologists/psychists and physiotherapists. The multidisciplinary pain clinics, this working group believes, should contribute to the ability of local medical centres to clarify and treat simpler pain conditions. I think this is very exciting and forward-looking – not least in view of the interaction reform and the fact that the specialist healthcare service has been extended to our municipalities. I do not fully know the status of the workgroup's proposals, but what it recommends is not fully implemented in Health South-East yet. The Christian People's Party, like the Right, finds the proposals here very relevant and good. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal that they also have on a regional centre of competence for the diagnosis and treatment of long-term pain. This is also exciting. Not least, I see potential synergies in view of the previous proposals made by the opposition parties in Stortingen to establish regional diagnostic centres. Unfortunately, it was voted down in this room. Similarly, I would like to ask the Minister of Health to contribute to thinking new and holistically. This should perhaps also be thought of in the context that I believe diagnostic centres – which they now have in Denmark and which they work with in Sweden – actually come here once in the country. Although the proposal is incited by the opposition, I must say that it is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e592	It's very strange that perhaps the most important debates in this room are going on with almost empty hall. I really hope that people look at this from their offices. As usual, the representative is raising a very important issue. I want to grasp this a little bit historically first and then very concretely. I was one of those who fought for pain patients in the 1980s, when this was totally put on and wiped away from our professional environments. We fought a fight. I had a very good colleague in Bergen who was with me at these barricades, and we established the first pain clinics. And that's what was the beginning of something that jumped out of the anesthesia and intensive speciality, until today we can talk about pain patients as a full-fledged group of patients. I was very pleased that the representative Mangt said that this was still a woman's case. In the case of those who have exact diagnosis, cancer patients, cross-sectional lesions and after-effects after complex operations, there is much more to it than that. But those who end up in this diffuse bag, where we never manage to make a diagnosis, make weak, and that's for a lot of women. We have to bring this with us, and we have to raise it as a fanatic for rights as well. What I want to point the most to is education – education of professionals from scratch, related to primary health services. We need to focus on this in the education of both medical students, nurses, psychologists, physiotherapists and, more importantly, other specialities. The last patient I referred from my specialist practice to a pain clinic was told that it was twelve months waiting. It's totally unacceptable. This we just have to take over, and then we're going to improve it. The way to improve it should be linked to the Interaction Reform. We should get multidisciplinary environments outside of these clinics, which allows us to get some sort of investigation that goes ahead, so that we can relieve the specialist clinics. They should deal with the big, difficult, complicated cases. But we need to strengthen education at the basic level. We also need to strengthen the training of the administrators, who currently have far too little competence in pain management. In other words, we should get some kind of procedural books that they should be able to fulfill if they become employed as permanent practitioners, and if they do, it will also be very clear what skills they lack. We need to use our specialist clinics to train professionals who work directly against patients related to the Cooperation Reform. Thus, we will have a requirement for referrals that will prevent us from allowing patients to sail back and forth due to a lack of competence in the first paragraph that the patient encounters. The multi-disciplinary and multidisciplinary element of this is that we must have largely excluded the somatic and mental disorders, where there is a clear diagnosis, because we might be able to deal with them differently. That's how we get the differentiated system, so we can use a competence related to the really complicated. So I want to hit a blow so that we make the curriculum in education, which is very specific in terms of what we want, after we now actually have 25 years of experience in pain clinics and pain treatment. Then we need to develop multidisciplinary procedural books and checklists. The last thing I want to mention in this context is that our pain patients often fall between many chairs when it comes to working life. We lose resources in terms of their skills, and we also lose a lot of money because we can't get them into a differentiated working life. I've mentioned that before, that we need to get a very clear approach to and cooperate with the Nav system. Because the worst thing that happens to these patients is that they fall completely out of work. We need to adapt what they can do with their skills and capabilities. Finally, I would like to mention our reimbursement arrangements for medications. There I very much agree with the representative, Höie: we need to simplify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e616	I would like to thank my good colleagues for a good and constructive debate. There's been a lot of good input. In particular, at the end, I would like to draw up the contributions of the representative, Odland, and the input he made from his specialist practice. It's worth listening to. I am pleased that the Council of State will now look at the obstacles that lie in the funding system in order to get an offer of pain treatment outside the hospital. This area is not mentioned in the 2012 mission document, which has been discussed by many, but I am very pleased that the Council of State now confirms that what has been in the previous mission document is still valid. I think it is very important to communicate to regional health companies, so that the development of treatment provision does not stop. I referred to Sørlanden Hospital, which has now removed a planned offer from the budget, which was also covered by the representative, Mr. Davøy. I would like to ask the Council of State how she will ensure that regional health businesses follow up on what has previously been provided through the mission documents. The Council of State also said that she would assess national guidelines and agreed that it would contribute to improving the competence and quality and improved access to treatment across the country. And as I said in my previous post, the trade unions would love to have guidelines, and they're more than willing to contribute to getting these in place. It is a fundamental value in a humanistic society that we have a healthcare service that provides patients with good relief and treatment regardless of human background and function, for example. is not a beneficial treatment at the end of life, but is particularly important and valuable. It is precisely in the care of the weakest that our values must be strong. Therefore, the question is not just whether we can afford to provide pain treatment in a health economic sense. It is also a question of whether we as a society respect the values that cannot be measured and weighed in quantitative quantities, such as: respect for human dignity. Based on these and other ethical values, it is obvious that as a society, we have to afford to give pain patients better quality of life through good relief and treatment. There is a lot of good will, both at the Council of State, at health companies and here in the Chamber, and there is not least a strong commitment and a strong will in the professional community to improve treatment provision in this area. But the most difficult thing remains, and it is to continue this effort and build up a good and satisfactory offer, and I expect, as I said, that the Council of State will follow up that regional health companies continue this effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e629	This has been an interesting debate, because it's about so many different groups. Then you'd like to have a general debate about a lot of different areas. I tried to say that a little bit earlier, and there are a lot of people who have been involved in it. We must not create the impression that all pain treatment in Norway is poor, because it is not. In terms of palliative medicine, curative treatment, there is an area that has a great focus, both in hospitals and in the municipalities, because we are so concerned about that competence, and because – as the interpellant was involved in his last post – providing relief treatment, especially at the end of life, is very important. We're going to do that in a good way. In the case of guidelines, guidelines on addictive medicinal products come into force in the summer. Here pain management is a separate chapter. As far as the other national guidelines I mentioned are concerned, the work has progressed. I can't say when these guidelines come. But now I hear something we don't always hear: very much positive talk about health south-east. It has to be possible to use Health South-East guidelines if they have done something that the others have not done as well. That's what you do very often. Sonja Mandt said that this is very much about women. Well, it does. There's a lot of female health there. Women's Health Competence Centre at the Rikshospitalet has many research projects relating to this theme, both directly and indirectly. Kjönnaas Kjos said something that is actually quite important. She talked about children and young people and painkillers. It was also the representative Toppe on the inside. It is a little thoughtful that the cause of pain is not such that we in health care can take responsibility for everything. These include school, sports, leisure, community, friends, family, relatives — many, and outside the healthcare system. Here, it is likely that when we look at the interaction reform and prevention, it is extremely important to focus on this. The representative, Höie, also asked why the Nordics have hurt more than others. I think that's a little bit of the same thing. We need to expand this debate a little more than just dealing with it. Just a little bit to Davøy: so it's not like we have to repeat all patient groups in each and every mission document. Then there had been some telephone directories that were not available to handle. They still apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e646	So the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e660	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e669	The recommendation concerns a proposal from Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vogskesen, and Arne Sortevik on the measurement of customer and user satisfaction in road, rail, boat and air transport in Norway. The Government Parties refer to letters of reply from the Council of State and have no further comments. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, they propose that the proposal be rejected. The Government's reply letter is attached to the setting. The Party will have annual measurements of customer and user satisfaction of the quality of the transport offer for all transport sectors. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. The Directorate for Administration and ICT – Diffi – regularly conducts community surveys in Norway. Transport services are among the worst ranked services. Many of the transport committee’s inspections in Norway often cause dissatisfaction and frustration over a good part of the transport service for which public authorities, in particular states and counties, are responsible. It is paradoxical that where the provision of transport has been assessed as best by the users, it is aviation – air transport – that is. What distinguishes aviation in Norway is that the infrastructure is operated by a company that itself dimensions investment and maintenance, which has to deal with strict international rules for its operations and is also strictly controlled. It is a paradox that where transport is the most direct public governance, contentment is the lowest. It is not least because much of today's road network is in poor condition. The Party considers it important to measure user satisfaction in the transport sector in Norway. The purpose of such measurements is to contribute to the good satisfaction of users and customers. Transport is important. Good transport solutions for persons and goods are important for housing, employment and value creation. It is important that public authorities — in particular government and magnification — have a comprehensive overview of the quality of their transport systems, as users and customers actually perceive it. In a letter to the Transport Committee dated 30 January 2012, the Minister for Transport commented on the proposal of the Progress Party, showing, among other things, that: to carry out, within different modes of transport, such quality and customer satisfaction measurements. She concludes that the Ministry of Transport ‘have a good understanding of what users/customers think is satisfactory quality, and that through measurements, contact and dialogue with users we get good feedback on the satisfaction of the same offers that the State is responsible for on the road.’ The Council of State therefore considers that it is not appropriate to introduce another system of studies and measurements, as proposed by the representatives of the Progress Party. It is a pity that such a new rejection of another good proposal by the Progress Party. The proposal contains three parts: measurement, proposals for follow-up of measurement results and the actual presentation of the results to the Size Survey. It can be politically comfortable not to know too much and not to show that you actually know what you know. Consumer- and customer-friendly it appears to be a defect and a weakness. The head of the Consumer Council has commented on the proposal of the Progress Party. I quote something of a rather long statement, a long comment, which has come from the head of the Consumer Council: ‘The Consumer Council considers that it is as important for the public sector as for the private sector to ensure the satisfaction of users. Conducting annual user satisfaction studies in all transport areas where the country buys/provides services is a good proposal.’ And another quote: ‘In a situation of increasing purchases of services from other suppliers, it becomes more important for the country to monitor deliveries and to set the right requirements when making the purchases. Here, for example, we see a tendency for public authorities to leave users to report if supplies are too poor. The Consumer Council believes that the public should have good systems to assess whether the delivery complies with the requirements laid down.’;» Also in this case is the Progress Party on the part of users and customers. We note that the government, at the Minister of Transport, does not want the overall production and treatment of user satisfaction – nor does it want other parties. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e712	I would like, on behalf of the Right, to congratulate the proposers for bringing this debate to the market just to draw attention to users and customers and their satisfaction in the transport sector. However, proposers wish to regularly measure customer and user satisfaction in road, rail, air and ship traffic in areas where taxpayers’ money is spent. We already have many quality measurements of our roads today. The right is very concerned with user satisfaction, in particular with road safety. From the Right – and there is something on different occasions that the Right has addressed – we believe that what we really need is independent roadside supervision that can carry out thorough roadworthiness tests on the roads and, not least, ensure that there are agreed criteria for what is a good and safe road. We have also noticed that the government points out that it is difficult to measure user satisfaction specifically in the areas where taxpayers’ money is spent, that many measurements are already being made to check out user satisfaction – that, for example, it does. also part of the new NSB agreement, where we have measured user satisfaction in the future also with the customers using the railway – that the government does not consider it appropriate to carry out further measurements, that measurements are sufficient, and that the government knows where the shoe is pressing. I also think the opposition is doing that. From the Right, it is important to increase the quality of infrastructure in Norway. One of the most important issues we have been dealing with recently in particular road and road safety is the establishment of an independent roadside surveillance system that can monitor and measure the quality of roads on the basis of given criteria on what is good, safe and safe. In general, measurements are necessary if quality improvements are to be desired. However, the right considers it uncertain whether the costs of the Progress Party’s measurement proposal correspond to the value and information obtained. In addition, I would like to point out that the proposal of the Progress Party coincides with the desire for a transport regulatory system covering the whole transport sector. The right does not want this and does not want to support an approach to a sector organisation. From the Right, it is the country, motorists and travellers who need independent roadside supervision that can just carry out thorough measurements of safety in the transport sector, but especially on our roads. That's to be on the side of the motorists, the travelers. In this way, we will also more fully ensure road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e727	Another good proposal will be put to the vote, says the representative Arne Sortevik. However, it is no good that the Progress Party is the only party that stands for that proposal. I believe for some reason that the Progress Party must go on its own, because the letter from the Minister of Transport that we have now received makes it clear that the proposal from the Progress Party is very well taken care of. You don't have to come up with a proposal like this because we're already doing this today. So that's what I thought I'd have to recognize. The dissatisfaction with the red-green government is measured on selection measurements every day. So if the intention is to increase the dissatisfaction with the government, I think it's well cared for by both VG and TV 2 and other media, not least sticking to what Blackevik is most busy, easily. It is simply the policy that is being pursued, which shows in a way whether we do our job. Right now, this indicates that we in SV do not do our job. We are now in the middle of the selectors. But we're going to do something about that. What's missing, I ask myself, when you see that the NSB has two annual measurements, the Coastal Directorate has measurements, the Avinor has measurements – and so does the Vegesene. I don't quite understand what's missing when we see this good response from the Minister of Transport. What would have been interesting, for example, was whether we measured on the basis of the Progress Party's policy in 2003, when they privatised the road sector and road maintenance, and it would be so much cheaper. Now it's 100 pst. more expensive. It would be interesting to ask the voters if they were satisfied that we had less road maintenance for the money because of the progress party's privatisation of road maintenance. I think the voters could answer that in a good way, and that should be a reflection of the Progress Party. Then the representative Schou resumes the debate on roadside surveillance. Further more bureaucrats – I would call it a measuring tape guerrilla – will travel around the country and measure whether there is a centimeter of asphalt here and a centimeter of asphalt there, and report back to the state and say that there and there is poor road maintenance. We know it's bad, we know we need to put more effort into it, and that's why we do it – politically – but we don't have any more added bureaucrats to figure this out. We already have that knowledge. We'd rather spend the money on asphalting than on people running around with tapes. That should also be right-wing interest. I am very pleased that all parties, apart from the Progress Party, are satisfied with the answer given by the Minister of Transport to the issue raised by the Progress Party. For my part, it was okay to get that overview, because I didn't know that we did such a good job on this as we actually did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e742	The representative Inged Schou took up many of the points I wanted to pick up. I also agree with the representative, Mr Schou, that there is a great deal of positive about the idea of the Progress Party proposal. It's because I think it's very good that we get information from user groups, how they experience our transport systems, how they feel that an important part of our infrastructure is. I also believe that feedback helps us improve. Then I thought that in the answer that came from the Minister of Transport, to a large extent, it happens. Therefore, I do not need to be involved in any decision to clarify this. What I want to say is that I think it might be very useful for Stortingen to get a more systematic response from this particular work. But I don't need to be part of an own decision and talk about new studies. When it comes to roadside supervision, I want to say one thing: it is very good that we now have roadside supervision. Then I would have wanted another organization of it, but the most important thing is that we have put in place a roadside inspection. So let us take with us the experience of the establishment of that road safety authority. I also found there to be a significant political pressure on the Directorate of Roads, that they act independently in the way of managing the task they have been given, through the roadside supervision that is now in place. Then I will finally comment that the NSB in its agreement has just received this with user feedback as part of the agreement. There's an average of 65 pst. (Parliament adopted the resolution) It might seem like a little ambitious goal, but once we've seen the feedback from the customers, we see that it might be a good bottom plank to have, but I'd like to see the council comment on this part of the agreement with the NSB in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e753	Let me first point to the obvious, and to which the proposers have focused, first of all, on: in the transport sector, it is important to know what the offer and the quality of the users want. It's not just important, it's actually decisive. It's the users and input from those who decide how we align our policies and how we prioritise them. So it's not like we're missing research and measurement today. As I've done well in my reply to the committee, there's already a lot of research on this. Where we buy services, we have minimum requirements. If the companies don't deliver what we've bought, they're going to get credited. It should be a powerful enough incentive. When I'm skeptical about the proposal that's ahead, there's a main reason why we already have a wide range of measurements and systems to collect the information we need. There will be a number of practical and methodological challenges in order to develop a single system for the whole sector — and to be reported annually. We spend a lot of money every year on getting users in this country a good transport offer. Instead of creating new resource-requiring solutions, I want to encourage us to take a closer look at the challenges that are so obvious to all of us. If we solve these challenges, we will create a good economic and social development that makes it possible to live and work throughout the country. Then I would also like to comment on the clarification in the proposal for a representative, where it will be suggested ‘to measure the satisfaction of what is the responsibility of the State’. [[...]] I would like to remind you that the State has the right to dispose of only parts of the infrastructure and public transport in Norway. The county authorities took over a large part of the road network from the state on 1 January 2010. It is also the county – with an important exception for the railways – that arranges for public transport here in the country. In addition, there are many private and commercial actors. When people travel, it's the interaction between all these actors that's important. The transport sector is very complex. For several of the companies in which the country buys passenger transport services – e.g. The Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route, on rail and some routes – is such that operators have direct contact with their customers. In their agreements with these actors, the state has set performance requirements. It is natural that these activities focus on how best to develop a good supply for customers within the framework they have. The public in the transport sector are also the ones who run the most smooth measurements in this area. The proposal providers also point to NSB as a good example, even if they are not entirely satisfied with the purpose of the agreement. The proposers argue that the public does not have an incentive to do better for customers, as private actors do. I feel that it's not quite right. The extensive processes we have with planning, performance follow-up and management of public authorities and businesses indicate something completely different. We develop infrastructure and buy passenger transport services, for example, on the basis of laws, guidelines and planning processes before we make the political choices. In this work, there are many who are involved – as it should be. And then we also get good sense of the priorities. So I mean that we've seen good knowledge of what users want, and that we're going through a number of channels, for example. measurement and dialogue - have a good overview of the different supply that the country should develop. Anyone who has our Minister of Transport in this country – I believe everyone who has been, or is, in the Transport Committee on the Stortinget – will be with me in that if there is something that does not work in the transport sector, we will hear about it quickly. To conclude, I think that we should not now launch an additional system of investigations and measurements after this proposal, and I am also pleased that the majority in the Committee agrees with me in this. Then I have to say – to the NSB and that agreement: it's not like 65 pst. is an upper limit on customer satisfaction. On the other hand, there's a clear warning to the NSB: if they're as low as 65 pst, they'll be drawn after the agreement we've entered into.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e781	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e784	It is a pity that the Council of State is so reprehensible to get a comprehensive measurement system and to present it to the Council with measures to correct and improve areas where customers and users clearly express their dissatisfaction. It is an extra pity because the head of the Consumer Council chooses to give its full support to the proposal, with a very comprehensive reason, which I will, of course, make sure that the Council of State becomes aware of afterwards. We've just got this. There is also a point that the surveys are made available to the Storting. The Council of State is right, in its reply letter and in the reply that has now been repeated, is that different studies are carried out at different levels and in different ways. What prevents the Storting from getting a more comprehensive picture and a more comprehensive overview of the measurements actually being carried out, so that they can be dealt with and taken into consideration more effectively, and that they do not drown in all other matters, such as budgets and plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e791	The key point now is to ensure that users are provided as well as possible, including investing on more roads and on more paths. Then I'm surprised that the Progress Party is now going to launch a device here, to use a lot of people to do research, and that we in the department are going to spend time and effort to get results for Stortinget, which when they're presented to the Stortinget, maybe already out of date, is fulfilled, because we've been getting feedback through the systems that we already have, that things have improved. So to me, there's just one thought here: Yes, let's get everything we can out of messages, but let's on the other hand simplify something and don't confuse it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e797	It is a little special that the Council of State boasts without hesitation that it is so good with research and control to assure us that we are getting the quality of what the NSB – and others – delivers, but that it is suddenly not so important in terms of the state itself and the infrastructure itself. When the Consumer Ombudsman thus says that this is very good, I am a little surprised that the Council of State says she is amazed that we are going to spend time on investigations. I thought it was important for the council actually to know how reality is out there, and to let people make their recordings. But it may often be good not to know, because it creates less trouble – perhaps at least in this room – than if you had been given such a message, where you had been told what the state is, and how the user satisfaction is – and has been the last year – versus the previous years. I think it would make a lot of sense for Stortinget to have such a kind of debate on this important issue, and I am surprised that the Council of State is so reprehensible to this. Doesn't the Council of State see that it's important to see, from year to year, how people perceive reality out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e806	In my letter to the Committee, I have settled on the investigations that are taking place today, and I think that both in the annual budgets and in separate other matters, we are making sure that the state of the matter is reported in different fields. So I'm going to reject what Bord Hoksrud now says again that I don't know the reality out there. If there's something I spend time on, it's traveling around and checking out what the situation is, both on the road and on the track, and meeting people who tell me what's good, and what's wrong. Contrary to Hoksrud, which is just as it is in the media and tells us that there is a standstill in all fields, I'm out. It looks like he is, too, but gid for some glasses he wears when he's out!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e813	Now we have just heard the representative of Langeland, who is the government party colleague of the Council of State, mention an independent roadside surveillance as bureaucracy. For the Right, the zero vision is that it should not be the nature of the road that means that we have killed on our roads, and precisely independent roadside supervision is an important measure to ensure that we get good criteria that say something about what is good, safe and safe. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State – in relation to the roadside supervision we now have – has criteria, and intends to develop criteria, which define this that go on a safe and prosperous path.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e820	First of all, I'm very happy for everyone who keeps going on the zero vision. It's very important. Despite the fact that we can rejoice in talking about traffic fatalities and serious damage going down, one kills one too much. We always have to keep that in mind. Secondly, I can now report that the roadside inspection is about to be established on Voss. There was a lot of searching for competent people who want their jobs there, and who are going to be the first to supervise our state roads, next to the county councils. We have now developed a comprehensive instruction on how the work will be done, and I will ensure that the representative Injerd Schou is sent to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e827	I'm totally in agreement with the Council of State. We're not going to build up any of our own systems, we have a good system and a lot of good measurements. But my question is, when we hear the representative Langeland – who is one of the most experienced transport politicians we have in the country – say that he has not actually been aware of this before the letter from the Council of State came to the committee, isn't it a signal that we should get more of this kind of information up to the Stortinget? Wouldn't it also be a great inspiration for our many etats to be allowed to present the studies that say something about how the people out there experience the quality of this? I think getting more of this kind of information until the Storting is an inspiration for the etats, and that's important knowledge they have here. That is why my challenge to the Council of State is this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e834	First of all, it was nice for me also to work out this joint presentation, so that the Transport Committee has an overview of what investigations are being initiated at the moment. Of course, we should also have a watchful eye and ear so that there may be improvements here. Secondly, it's a good advice to do more than what we've done now, to look at how we can bake in the messages that we get back from the different actors, our etats and our companies, and to even greater extent than now make sure that the Storting gets to share their information. Some of them happen via groceries in different fields, but we can get better there. I'll take that with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e841	Now we've moved a little bit. The representative Hareide took up was exactly the same as I asked in my first line. What prevents the Storting from getting a more comprehensive overview of the actual measurements and reflecting both user and customer satisfaction with the transport offer beyond the whole country? There's nothing to it. So we don't require an army of people with a yardstick, as the representative Langeland talks a little contemptuously about. However, it requires some writing work, some editing and overall thinking in the ministry to provide not only the transport committee with an answer to a question and a proposal, but also the Stortinget with an overall overview of how users view the quality of transport in Norway. So my question is still: will the Storting get such a more systematic overview, and will the Council of State make sure that that happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e848	When I was rejecting the representative of Sortevik with regard to such a comprehensive overview, I probably saw more of a message work, with the time and resources it requires in a field like this, and that we had already come even further in customer satisfaction and achievement in different fields, before the Stortinget got this debate. If we can do it so that we can meet something more in the middle, and I'll now bring back to the department what has been reported here, I'll look at how we can supplement the information that has already been given to Stortinget in various documents, and how we can supplement it with additional information on customer satisfaction or dissatisfaction, where it might be. I'll take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e855	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e860	Today's debate tells us a lot. It also tells us a lot about the internal situation in the Committee, where some representatives want to take advantage of their opportunities and their rights as representatives by making proposals – called minority rights – while the Bolsheviks, or the majority, want to prevent the opposition's opportunities to do so as far as possible, and are clearly of the opinion and opinion that the job they are supposed to perform as representatives is more in line with Tause Birgites, for representation proposals one should preferably have asked. In this way, this matter and this debate are a good reflection. Once again, we experience that where someone wants a transparent, open society, where both the Storting and the consumer will have access to information on customer and user satisfaction in road, rail, boat and air transport in Norway, the government wants the least transparency. When State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa said that it said that there was as much credibility as possible – the Council of State or the representative of Hoksrud – I would like to draw a neutral opinion on this matter, from the head of the Consumer Council, Randi Flesland, who has stated: It is important that the Stortinget has knowledge of what users think about the transport offer for which the State is responsible. An annual survey of the satisfaction of road users will be of great benefit in this work. Such a study should also be comparable between the various modes of transport of trains, buses, railways and boats. Annual standardised user satisfaction measurements should be introduced as a requirement in contracts with transport service providers. This was not said by Hoksrud, this was not said by the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa – this was said by the head of the Consumer Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e871	The president works with himself to get a little bit more out of this place, so the president lets it pass a couple of terms, but we don't have to challenge each other here -- especially not the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e875	The councils are concerned with my glasses – my glasses are mostly in my office, but I see very well, completely without glasses. I'm very happy for the 11 km by motorway we're going to build in 2012, and the 17 km by middle parts we're going to build in 2012, but it's really far from the decision this hall made in 1962 to build 785 km by 1980. Even when this national transport planning period is over — if the red-greens continue until 2019 — there will still be almost 300 km missing. It's one of the challenges, and it's like it's incredibly bad out there. Langeland is involved in privatisation in 2003, so now it is in 2012, almost ten years later, so maybe you should start taking responsibility for the nearly seven years this government has been in power. I actually think that one of the biggest challenge is that the maturity has increased a lot, much more than what the assumptions were -- and especially much more after the red-green took over. So just since the state roads were transferred to the county, and with the other roads we're left with, the maturity has increased from 12 billion. DKK to 40 billion kr – according to the floors, when they presented their proposal a short time ago. So maybe some of the challenge, and that makes you not get that much done, is that it's so hugely much harder to clean up in this maturity. It's like it's going to be asphalted less this year than last year -- it's in the state budget, so it's just taking it with it. It's 600-800 km – last year it was asphalted over 1,000 km of road. I agree with Langeland that we don't want a measuring belt guerrilla to travel around and measure how bad or good the standard is on the roads, but what this case is about is that it's important to know what people think – to see if there's a positive development, or if there's a negative development. That's what this proposal is all about, getting it into a total context. Why is it that this is so important just in terms of the railway? It should be equally important for the Council of State, for the Government and for the Government to know what people think about the situation on the road as well. Then you have some studies, but you probably don't want – I understand that at the Council of State – that this is going to come out here in Stortinget, where you can get a real debate about how things stand in the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e888	I have trouble with the voice today, so I don't know if this is the right article to use it at all, but let me just make a short comment. Firstly, year after year much greater improvements are made on the road network and on the rail network than they are on the rail network, for example. did so in the three years behind when the Progress Party took part in the budgetary agreement. Secondly, we get regular messages to the department, we meet people when we're out, and we have an overview of what's being seen in the work of investigations, including what's happening in the state road system. It makes something demanding that Bård Hoksrud, who doesn't wear glasses, but who should have had it, is out there reporting in the media that there is a standstill – that nothing is happening. But fortunately, even though Bård Hoksrud is trying to convey this reality, people are reporting back – even when they are happy. Then people also report back when things are done. We have to stick to that combination in the future. Every day, we have to do what we can to improve both the road network and the track network, and then we have to say to ourselves: It's always the goal to achieve, because there's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e897	I will not go into the substance of the matter, but I would like to say something about the formal part of the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen mentioned. There are rules for how we treat matters – both for minorities and for the majority. When it comes to the matters referred to by Fredriksen, I would like to say that the majority is in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. We could have the same or different, but that's what the multiples have held to, and that's what we have to accept. Then I also read on Facebook that it has been suggested that there are no representatives from the Labour Party present in the Chamber. I have to say that those who suggest it should really take their glasses, not only when they're out looking at the roads, but also when they're in this hall, because I see that the party that has most representatives here is, among other things, the party that has most representatives here. Working party.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e906	Just that piece is actually a bit serious, and that should the presidency look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e909	I understand that the Council of State believes that I should get glasses, and believe that I am around to tell you that there is a standstill everywhere. Then I think actually the council should do something about the strength of their glasses, because I'm very clear, and I actually boast very much of what's happening, but the problem is that there's so little bone in the big context. It may well be that there are only heia-people from the red-green parties who call in to Meltveit Kleppa and tell her how nice it is. What's at least my opinion, and it's not just when I meet progress party people, but also when I meet people outside, is that people are worried that it's happening so incredibly little. After the presentation of the national transport plan proposals by the agencies, I actually found the communications from most of Norway to be quite clear and unambiguous. Some called it almost fluent, and there was no way in which some workers' party rapporteurs around mentioned the proposals from the courts when it came to postponement of the law. 35, postponement of E6, postponements here and postponements there. It's the perceptions out there, and the Council of State won't take it in, even if she says this government is doing so much. But we have big challenges, and then it actually has to be that we're allowed to point this out when you're out and see what it's like in some places. I've been to the Øksfjord Tunnel. It is no longer a state responsibility, but it is one of the problems that the state only sent to the county councils without making sure that one got the economy to clean up in it. I think it's important to know what people mean and how people look at the state. I realize that for a government council and for a government, it's not as popular, because you might have to assume that it's worse than what you're trying to represent it as. I pointed out that after seven years, responsibility should start to be assumed – seven years in the transport policy is long, almost forever – but it may not be, because we spend nine years planning a road project before we start building, but it's too bad. I also think it is important to bring with me and to remind you here that perhaps the best investigations and feedback you get are from the Disaster Commission, which in several accidents has clearly established that it is the road and the state of the road that is why the accidents happen. What we often experience is that people who represent either the Department of Transportation, or very often the State Road Service, say that we can't just blame it. We experienced this, among others. when the accident commission presented its report on the accident outside Alta. I hope that the Council of State will take on the reality, which at least I've taken on board, that this is done a lot of good, but there are also a lot of challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e922	Others have not asked for the word on case 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e936	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Bård Hoksrud, still without glasses. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e947	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in working on this matter. Secondly, let me say that in 2011 and the first part of 2012, we have clearly shown how vulnerable we are when natural cancers become too full. That it is bad weather in Norway is not an unknown phenomenon. It's always been like that, and so it'll continue to be in the future. These include: The storm "Days" to the full, is how dependent we have become on the communication and infrastructure of our society. This applies both to the traditional infrastructure such as road, rail and electricity networks, but also to newer infrastructure such as telephony, the Internet and emergency networks were fully challenged. We experienced that some exposed areas for several weeks were without vital infrastructure such as telephony, electricity, road, etc. It is therefore very important to ensure that backup systems are installed when unforeseen events such as storms and other natural disasters occur. Everyone also knows that much of the infrastructure in Norway is very poor, and that there is little to it to have major consequences. Poor infrastructure helps to make the damage to a very large extent. Destruction poses major challenges, especially for municipalities and county councils that do not have large financial resources and resources to clean up after nature's kings, in the rear. It is therefore very important to ensure that large-scale society provides and helps municipalities and counties to clean up when nature's herrings have damaged and destroyed the infrastructure. When «Days» had swept over the country and traveled, both the Minister of Transport and the Prime Minister were quickly out and promised that there would be no money to clean up after the storm's mercenaries. Unfortunately, the promises of the Minister of Transport and the Prime Minister have not been fulfilled, as clearly stated in a letter of reply dated 22 December, from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the State of Oppland. He applied for cosmetics and asked for all the municipal expenses after the storm, a total of 46.1 million. kr, to be fully covered. The letter of reply states that the state initially covers approx. 50 pst. of the expenditure, which is far from the government's promises. Unfortunately, it is not new that you feel that promises are not being followed up. This is very sad and puts the municipalities in an extremely difficult economic situation. In Sogn and Fjordane we see that according to the Official Journal of Bergen on March 27th, the total expenditure is 56 million. kr. Here again you can see that it is stated that the municipalities will only be covered approx. 50 pst. of the costs. This means that unforeseen storm and natural disasters in the municipality could affect the municipality's services, including: in the health and care sectors and the school sector, because not all the costs are borne. Therefore, it is disappointing to experience that no other party supports the proposal of the Progress Party to submit a financing plan to fully finance clean-up and repair work following natural disasters. On the other hand, we in the Progress Party are pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party supports our proposal to address the need for wider line paths on the power grid and our proposal to coordinate state responsibility for the electricity grid and all infrastructure based on electronic communications. I would therefore like to address the proposal put forward by the Group of the Progressive Alliance and recommend the Committee's recommendation for a decision. I hope that the government parties will turn around and support these important proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e970	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e973	As the rapporteur explained, extreme violence, floods and races have caused serious damage to infrastructure in recent years. E6 and the Dovreban had to shut down as a result of the flood in Gudbrandsdalen and Østerdalen, and this winter’s storms caused many to lose power and mobile networks. Examples are many throughout the country. This is why both cleaning up work and ensuring a more robust infrastructure have been – and are – important for the red-green government. The Council of State makes a comprehensive presentation in its letter of reply, both in relation to the measures implemented and to the assessments to be made in the future, including: in the context of the revised national budget. According to world leading climate change experts, climate change will lead to more extreme weather in the coming years. In 2009, Norway was 1 degree warmer than normal. Climate change scenarios in Norway suggest that the average temperature can be expected to increase 2.3–4.6 degrees by 2100. The fact that we don't know for sure how much temperature will increase is primarily because we don't know how much emissions will be in the years to come. It could be 40-50 pst. more precipitation in Norway. There will be more floods and more races guaranteed, and it will rage in places where there has not been a race before. Because climate change will have major consequences and will be much more serious than the damage we have seen so far, including: on infrastructure, a cross-political majority on the Stortinget – all as close as the Progress Party – has agreed to a climate settlement that calls for climate change reduction. Several members of the Progress Party, such as The representative of Sortevik even questions whether climate change is man-made. In an article in the Newspaper last summer, the representative writes: ‘It is premature to conclude on climate change causality’. He goes on to write: ‘On this basis, one-sided precautionary policies are becoming highly dangerous when the need for national action is strongly over-communicated and the impact on the population is strongly under-communicated.’ It is to be hoped that although the representative Sortevik may not be so concerned about the consequences of climate change for people living in Maldives, the consequences of climate change for people living in Norway may cause the representative to change his mind. The river in the Gudbrand valley did, as I said, damage for several hundred million dollars. The party subsequently considered that ‘it is wrong that people living in safe places pay as much as those living in vulnerable areas’. The representative Gjermund Hagesett asked both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice to amend the law so that people who have chosen to settle in places exposed to floods and races would pay more in insurance premiums than people who do not have it – or, as the representative said to VG on 15 June last year: ‘ it will be a little more expensive to live in exposed places. [[...]] Hopefully, it may have a bit of a disruptive effect.’ This was, of course, an entirely un topical policy for the government, which the then Minister of Justice Knut Storberget, too, was exemplaryly clear in his reply to the representative, with his short and unambiguous no to the wishes of the Progress Party. It is sad that when the party of progress extends its hand to those who are victims of floods and races, it is not a helping hand, but a demand that they pay more themselves. I can promise on behalf of the red-green majority that we will continue with the solidarity insurance system and continue with the transport promise to build a more robust infrastructure, which also tolerates the consequences of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1006	First, I want to give some praise to the Progress Party for addressing the problem. There is no doubt that with these prospects for natural disasters in the future, it is important that we are prepared, that we do not go into this completely unprepared. Environmental disasters are not new to us on this planet. We know that this has happened quite often on a large scale – quite major environmental disasters, too, if we go back in time. The greatest is well described, as far as I can judge, in Genesis chapter 7 – it is good that the congregation sits: "The Lord said to Noah, "Go into the ark, you and all your household! For you are the only one I have seen in this time who is fair to me." It was later explained that God would punish because of fleshly desire. If we are to assess the development of fleshly desire in Norway – I did not think of the Stortinget – in this House, it may well be that there are more natural disasters in the future. But there are other reasons why there are going to be disasters, and some of that we're probably contributing to ourselves. Then I think about warming up the globe, which is a little bit different opinions about, but most people think that this is where we're partly involved. Then we know that things happen. It is in particular the warming of the sea, which has led you to storms, floods and leaps. We had a lot of that in 2011, and we've actually had a good part of it this year as well. But it's maybe just small things in relation to what can happen. I watched a TV show last night, where it was about the probability that a meteor hits the globe, and the probability of multiple cases of such an external impact on our globe. We know that no one has been able to find the real reason why the dinosaurs got away from Earth's surface a few million years ago. – I’m a little uncertain about how much time I have left over here, President, it’s 92 minutes – it’s going to be a little bit... We should not ignore the fact that there may be major natural disasters in the future that we have problems facing. But now let's focus on the ones that have happened and to which the proposal of the Progress Party is directed; that's the level we had in 2011 and 2012. There is no doubt that we were not well prepared, and so it is that modern society has become vulnerable – it has become very vulnerable. We actually have poor chances of living in a normal way. I experienced the other day that the power was lost a couple of nights in a row, and with the complicated firing plant I have at home on the farm, I actually had to be up in part at night. This has led me to consider installing a separate unit. But each family can hardly have its own aggregate, so the security of electrical supply is important. The ability to operate a computer network – i.e. ICT – is important. I had a neighbor who came to the door last weekend; his computer network did not work, and he did not do banking, so he had to come to someone who had it. Missing mobile coverage we know was very serious for some of those who were exposed to the storm this winter, as it was not possible to get in touch with the outside world. We have an increasing transport demand in the population, which means that when the road goes away, there are many things that get much affected by it. That also applies to air traffic: when we had the ash cloud in 2010, we saw the affected society very much, and we were happy that it wasn't right now in winter, when the Dovreban is hanging in rails. Now I'm not going to accuse the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa for that, because it was unforeseen, but there would at least be no special connection between Trondheim and Oslo if it had happened today. Hoksrud mentioned the suggestions we put behind us. Now we believe that the government has a good opportunity to come back to funding this in the revised national budget, and looks forward to it doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1033	In the setting, the Christian People's Party has praised the Progress Party for taking up an important matter. The Christian People's Party and the Progress Party are also some of the reasons why we need a new vulnerability selection. I would like to address that proposal in this context too, because this is related. We see that when it applies, for example. mobile coverage and power supply, we are even more dependent on the type of infrastructure today than we were when the Vulnerability Selection did its job over ten years back in time. That's why I think it's an important proposal for the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party has advanced earlier that we need a vulnerability selection. I also support two of the proposals here. It's because we see a development, and we can only see what developments have been in this area. I heard that the road director could tell – two weeks back in time – that only in the last two days there were nine roads in Norway connected and bordered by race, because of a change in our climate. The representative Myraune referred to the major natural disasters far back in time. The challenge now is that there are the man-made changes that make this problem bigger than ever. I would also like to point out that the committee was on tour in Hedmark and Oppland. We then heard a talk from the county council – a state councilman knows well, Kristin Hille Valla in Oppland – that pointed out the importance of the fact that when the disaster occurs, a significant part of the cost is to be covered, while when the applications come two or three months later, one does not experience the same. I don't want to say that as a principle it should be 100 pst. Coverage – that may not be correct – but I would like to point out that when the government gives a signal when the accident is over, it is important that they follow up on this, according to the expectations they give.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1046	It's going to be a brief post, which comes from the Myraune's representative's philosophy of climate change. It's just that argument that makes us have to have the kind of flexible preparedness that it's put up for from the ministry. I can only fully agree to what is stated in the letter from the Ministry of Transport of 13 February this year, where this change – this anthropogenic change – we can expect over the next decades, means that we must have a continuous increase in preparedness, but it must be very flexible in relation to what appears. What obviously has to be at the bottom is that we have to have a state responsibility for providing compensation for damage caused by natural disasters. The instrument that has not been mentioned for the time being in the debate is the beauties of the Ministry of Local Affairs, which is a very fine and flexible scheme in relation to the needs of municipalities and municipalities. The County may apply directly to the Ministry, otherwise the County administers these schemes. Finally, I would just like to address the proposal of the minority, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party: ‘Document 8:49 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1059	The representative, Jon Øyvind Oddand, has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1062	The “Days” weather in the Christmas season was once again a reminder of climate change, extreme weather and one having to take it seriously. We have to sharpen the alert, so that we are more premeditated in advance. We need to secure clean-up and repair arrangements. I would first like to comment briefly from the setting that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party commented on what the municipalities, which were at this time, experienced. In their comments, it may seem that we have cork arrangements or follow up afterwards, and there is a well-meaning advice here to use the revised budget as an arena. There is nothing new that the revised budget will be used for non-starting events. On the contrary, as they also write, it is a good place to raise questions related to such unexpected events. In advance of this, there has been a run like this, where the state authorities are asked to collect reports from the municipalities on what needs to be corrected and improved, where the state authorities have the same task, and in case the railway is inside the image, they are told the same thing. So cleaning up after 'Days' becomes a matter of revision. Climate change and climate change must also become a specific theme of the forthcoming national transport plan. Let me say that so far we have arrangements that the Stortinget has struck at regular intervals, both on track and on the road and towards the municipalities. So here's a couple of suggestions that require some extra attention. One thing is to figure out the need for wider line traverses on the mains. The Minister of Oil and Energy reports that there were several reasons why the power supply failed in many places during the ‘Days’ and that it is correct that many of the damage is caused by three as a fall over the lines. It is the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, which sets minimum widths based on safety and danger of contact, but these distance requirements have not been enforced, so that one requires a carriage belt that also covers the rolling distance of the three. There will be a suggestion to minimise the risk of three-fold on the lines. Such an extension of the cleaning belt along the air lines will require time and resources; it requires a network owner to have a statutory right to expropriate the necessary reason beyond what we have today. Some broadcasters have good experience of falling three in addition to the minimum distance where it seems likely that three could do so over the leases. Experience with Days makes it absolutely necessary to look at the rules around power streets. So to the ecom law. It is such that responsibility for power and responsibility for echom has been added to two different departments. But we're a government, so we cooperate well in this field. Other important concerns in electronic communications are good coverage across the country, low prices, consumption modes, and when it comes to innovation within electricity, it will be among others. the quality of supply, the regulation of the revenues of the network company and the efficient operation and exploitation of the grid. In this sense, it is important at any time to strike the right balance between all these considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1075	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1079	I feel that the Council of State is talking a little around the porridge when she says that there is a matter in connection with the revision. Then my question is very simple and clear, and I hope that the Council of State can answer yes or no to it: will the municipalities and all those who have had singles in connection with «Days» cover all their expenses?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1086	Municipalities and county councils will be covered by the legislation currently in force in this area. It is described in my letter to the Committee, and it is practiced by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. No additional arrangements will be put in place for 2012, but there are tidy, far-reaching schemes that municipalities and county municipalities are well aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1091	I'm a little surprised when the Council of State says in its statement that it seems as if the Right and Christian People's Party don't think we have any arrangements. I'll have to prove it to you. I think we're very aware that we have some arrangements. But when we've addressed this as a problem, it's because we think there's not enough coordination between all the agencies that have a responsibility for power supply, the provision of mobile networks and the provision of the various services that society needs today. When the Council of State expresses itself that way, is it because she thinks it's good the way it is today? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1096	I think I said in my introduction that we have to do more both to be better banned, in advance, and to be ready to settle when it comes to cleaning and repair. It's just a recognition that we have clean arrangements in some fields, but that we need to get better. When it comes to municipalities and county councils, I perceive this comment so that we have to give clear time frames for when one can expect funds after extraordinary events. So in my answer, I would only do the right thing because here was, and is, a process with clear deadlines from the government towards municipalities and county councils and the state road system – there were different dates now in March – and then this will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1103	Mobile operators have a self-responsive responsibility, and my question to the Council of State is quite short: Is it willing to clarify the requirements for mobile operators – then I am thinking about risk and vulnerability analyses? We've had different episodes where we just see that the type of regular risk and vulnerability analysis has not been good enough for the operators. How does the Council of State view this? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1108	I think we experienced serious events both in May and in June last year in this field, similar to the one at Christmas, which shows us that this really needs an improvement. It was with the background in May and June that we asked the Postal and Telecommunications Authority for the first mission to look at how we can tighten up both legislation and conditions vis-à-vis mobile providers, as well as cooperation between the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the Postal and Telecommunications Authority – another report. We could also supplement both of these with the experiences of Days. The Post and Telecommunications Authority is now hearing a proposal for what we call a classification regulation, which requires assessment and protection of network equipment and facilities, and calls for risk and vulnerability analysis and better security plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1113	The Official Journal of Bergen reported yesterday that ‘Daymar’s mercies cost 56 million. kr for the municipalities of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. There are no claims from the county councils, and I assume that part of the extensive damage we were looking for is due to county roads. The County of Sogn and Fjordane say that in practice it has been – and so it will be – that the state and the municipality share the costs. So the half is left on strenuous municipal and county budgets. Is not the Minister for Transport aware that the county road network is among the road networks that have been damaged, and that the road maintenance of the county roads will slow down further and even more aft if the special damage we are talking about here is not covered in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1120	It's clearly unimaginable to expect municipalities and county municipalities to take a clean-up and a reparation after the extreme value we saw in the summer, all on their own. It is also the case that we have established arrangements for managing unexpected expenditure. So today I am not going to forward what might come either in the revised national budget or in the form of discretionary means, but the discretionary means are, of course, the possibility that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has towards county councils and municipalities. Additional means are needed here to cover all fields, including pavement and path. We come back to this matter in revised form.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1127	In the Minister's previous reply to me, she points out that there are predictable and tidy arrangements to clean up storms and natural disasters. Yes, we know that's going very well! However, when the government travels around and promises to clean up, and it should not be on money to clean up after natural disasters – especially in Hedmark and Oppland, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport were out there and promised it – the Council of State then realizes that municipalities and county councils feel cheated when they feel that they are only compensated for approx. half of the costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1132	The representative of Hoksrud knows very well that what happened last year has already been a matter in Stortinget and is settled. For me, it is most convenient to answer the funds allocated to the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency. They reported what they needed, were told that some of it they had to take within the funds they receive each year from the budget, not to charge for cleaning, and then they were allocated the remaining part. For municipalities and county councils, a dialogue is held with the Ministry of Local Government. It has also happened in this case. So there might be questions about how things should be cleaned up and put in order. I am confident that the Ministry of Local Affairs, the municipalities and the County Council will handle this jointly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1139	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1143	I am pleased that the Council of State shares the view of the Progress Party that it would be unreasonable for the municipalities and county councils concerned to remain with large parts of the bill after a storm that destroys infrastructure. But that's the way it is, and it brings us back to the very starting point of promoting this proposal. Unfortunately, it rejects the other parties. We want a financing plan for full financing of clean-up and repair work after the natural disasters in 2011 and the start of 2012 related to road and rail. It will also give an opportunity to look at the whole scheme in general. So the general system is like I referred to in the line exchange, that the state and the municipality share the costs. That is what the Progress Party believes is wrong. We believe it is unreasonable that such a large proportion of the costs associated with infrastructure emergency damage remain in the narrow municipal budget and in the narrow county municipal budget. That's what the matter is. The representative of the Bjørnface from the Workers' Party has deliberately tried to talk himself out of the matter. We understand that well in the Progress Party, because it is deliberately over-communicated in the election campaign that the state should just take the bill – the entire bill – and that it should not be on money. And it's deliberately under-communicated after election fighting that the state doesn't do it at all, but that the state is actually sticking away from the bill, and that large parts of the bill are left with both municipalities and counties. We were reminded in the transport committee of this when we were on an inspection trip a few weeks ago, among other things. in Oppland, and the State of Oppland stated that one was frustrated that, after a second application, one was told what was not given, i.e. that one could not cover the bill. It is in no way the way that it was signalled and communicated in the election campaign, both from the Prime Minister and from the Minister for Transport. Finally, as long as humanity is able to measure backwards, there have been great and strong climatic variations, and it will probably continue. There have been great and strong climatic variations long before today's humanity went upright on the land, and so it will probably continue, even on the basis of today's civilization. We have to prepare for the possibility of storms. We've been aware of that for a long time, but we also have to have a regime that makes it manageable for municipalities that are hit by storm, so that they can clean up and repair their infrastructure without being left with large parts of the bill themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1161	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1175	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1184	I might not say that there has been equal cooperation in the Committee on this matter. Not everyone has been equally interested in being involved in writing comments. But I expect that the different parties and groupings will explain their views on the matter. Oslopackak 3 was originally designed for 53 billion. NOK 38.9 billion, of which a total of 38.9 billion. kr was to be collected from the drivers in the form of extra tax, so-called tolls. A large part of the funds from Oslopackakt 3 shall also be used for public transport. The proportion here is now up to 38.4 pst. It turns out that most of the projects in Oslopackak 3 crack, and they crack pretty hard. The latest estimates of costs, to implement all the projects included in the package, have been increased from the original 53 billion. kr to close to double – nearly 100 br. kr. This means that many of the assumptions contained in the package are flawed, and the broken package is about to collapse. I will use the rest of my contribution to explain the views of the Progress Party and our proposals in the matter. The Progress Party believes that tolls are an extra tax. This is an attempt by the government to bring in the purchasing power of ordinary people, and to hide that you do not actually keep the promises of not increasing taxes, as Stoltenberg promised before the 2005 elections. I also record that many people are trying to push the environmental issue in front of themselves in this case and argue that it is not possible to build on the traffic problems in Oslo. This is at best an attempt to mislead people. Oslo is going to be like a small suburb in Paris, in terms of population. Of course, it is fully possible to meet the traffic challenges in and around Oslo if you want, and if you want to look at and apply new and smart solutions. Then you can meet the traffic challenges Oslo faces. But that means you have to have more thoughts in your head at once. In addition to upgrading the bus and T rail services in Oslo, rail must be given a lift, while improving the road network by increasing capacity and expanding the ring road system around the centre of the country’s capital. The tolls in Oslo now account for approx. 2 billion. kr per year. It corresponds to more than one third of what the state uses for infrastructure investments on our national road network. That's why I'm convinced that the environmental argument is just an attempt to hide what this is actually about. It seems to me that the government is very clear from the Council's response to the Committee, where the Council of State writes: «The proposal also has major economic implications. The revenue from the tolling is in the order of 2 billion. kr per year.’» Yes, this is probably the real reason why the proposals of the Progress Party to complete Oslopacket 3 with state funds will not be supported. I would have understood the argument if we had been a poor country. But that's not the case -- we have over 3,000 billion. kr on book, and we can actually afford to finance the development of a proper infrastructure network both in the capital and throughout the country. I hear that many people in this room are serious about the fact that we can afford to spend 800-900 billion. kr to develop lightning trains between the five largest cities in Norway, but cannot afford to remove the tolls on our road network. It fully indicates that it is a matter of political priorities and will, whether or not the road network is to be expanded by state resources. With a state that is in search of money, government funding and the expansion of Oslopackak 3 will mean enormous savings for society in the long term. Unlike the majority in this Chamber, the Progress Party has both the political will and the capacity to invest in infrastructure without tolls and with full state funding. I would therefore like to take up the proposals of the Advance Party in the matter and urge all other parties to support the proposal for full state funding of Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1208	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1211	This proposal gives Stortinget a good opportunity to discuss the responsibility of the red-green government – and lack of responsibility – for collective solutions in the big cities. If the State does not take greater responsibility for public transport in large cities, they will actually be choked by traffic. This is a national responsibility and not only a responsibility for municipalities and counties around and in the largest cities. In this case, the government runs from the bill and pushes it over to drivers and bus passengers in Oslo and Akershus. In the judicial collective plan from April last year and in proposals for government budgets in recent years, we have been aware that the State should take a greater share of important public transport investment in major cities. The government runs, as I said, from the bill, and there are some others – drivers and bus passengers – in this area that get it. Important projects in Oslopackakt 3 are e.g. E18 West Corridor, Fornebubanen and T-Bahn towards Ahus. The county roads in Akershus also have a large aftermath that needs to be taken in. Oslopackakt 3 is an overall plan for the development and financing of roads and public transport in Oslo and Akershus – the most populous area we have in our country. It's $59. kr – at 2010 level – until 2028. It shall be financed by tolls and appropriations from the State, the Municipality of Oslo and the County of Akershus. In addition, rail investments in the region. 80 pst. the financing of the package is toll revenue. 50 pst. investment is on the way, and the other half is on public transport. Among the most important projects in the portfolio are new E18 westwards, Manglerudtunnelen, Bjørvikatunnelen, Lørenswingen and Røatunnelen and a general refinancing of public transport in the Oslo area. Oslopack 3 is one of the most important toll-funded transport projects we have in Northern Europe. Since the agreement on Oslopackak 3 in 2006, the cost framework for the projects has exploded by 35 billion. kr. The state road service has been responsible for budget cuts of billions in the realisation of several projects. On the Ulven-Sinsen route, the exceedance is not less than 3 billion. kr. Oslopacket 3 is currently underfunded and must therefore be renegotiated. According to the Oslo City Council, there are several solutions that are current and that are now on the negotiating table. One is that the state covers the entire deficit of Oslopackak 3. Another is that projects are taken out of the package and not realised, or that projects are taken out of the package and financed through their own toll sections, or that the toll period is extended, or that new toll sections are established, or that the toll rates are increased. So the talk in Oslopackak 3 is 35 billion. kr. A state grant of this magnitude is seen from the Right as unrealistic. Therefore, several of the above measures need to be considered. These are also the signals I see that local politicians are discussing in the area in question. They also believe that Oslopackak 3 can withstand the fact that some of the projects are taken out of the portfolio, while at the same time it may be appropriate to extend the toll collection period somewhat. It remains to be seen. This is local political responsibility. Looking from the right on the side of Stortinget, we would like to stress that T-road development at Lørenswingen should be included in the future state budget. Once the State Road Service has been clearly responsible for overruns, it is also reasonable that these should be covered by the State. This tends to be done by the state on the highways. The State may also contribute to financing actions that are not currently part of Oslopackaging 3, but which will nevertheless be necessary to ensure efficient traffic management in Oslo that benefits the whole country, for example. a new T-Bahn tunnel. Routes may also have the possibility to submit tenders for the operation of local trains in the region. In the Court's collective plan last year, and in proposals for government budgets in recent years, we have been aware that the State should take a greater share of important public transport investment in major cities. Let me finish where I started: the cities are suffocated by traffic if the state does not take greater responsibility for public transport. In this case, the government runs from the bill, and much of the bill has been charged by the government's own body, Vegvesenet.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1237	Oslopackakt 3 is a cross-political settlement between all parties in Oslo and Akershus minus Akershus Progress Party – it is important to say here – about investments in and operation of public transport in Oslo and Akershus. As the numbering suggests, there is an Oslopacket 1, about large standard projects in the region, and an Oslopacket 2, about large collective investment. Since the late 1980s, the inhabitants of Oslo and Akershus have paid tolls, which have financed large development measures that have benefited many people who use trains and tracks every day. In the last user satisfaction measurement made by the Mountain Line one year ago, three out of four replied that they accept payment of tolls in this region, that they see that road systems improve, and that they also accept that their tolls can go to the operation of public transport. The distribution is simple: 60 pst. to Oslo and 40 pst. to Akershus. The background for Oslopackak 3 was that local politicians had accepted that tolls and user funding had to be used, and that, in addition, through NTP in 2004 – another government NTP, a government with a different political colour – was familiar with what was the state’s contribution to the region. When the political agreement was concluded in 2006, it was the country’s largest toll settlement. The strength of political conciliation is, of course, the broad commitment and the willingness to find solutions regionally. Then it's a reality of who's responsible. I believe that regional politicians must take a substantial part of the responsibility for making a settlement. It is also an essential part of the responsibility for the continuation of the settlement. So in 2008 the Stortinget dealt with a change to the Road Traffic Act that opened up the possibility that tolls could also be used for the operation of public transport. That's some of the success of Oslopackak 3. That's 25 pst. tolls can be used for operation, meaning that the population has received a significantly better collective offer than they had before. This allows public transport to compete with the private car in the long term. The weakness of Oslopackak 3 is obvious that it became more expensive than we expected. This is whether the Progress Party is promoting proposals. So regional politicians are sitting in these days and renegotiating the whole deal. They shall find a solution before 1 June and the Stortinget has requested that the package be brought into a financial balance before further projects can be launched. That means that now is the time to act; you can't wait for anything. Out of respect for those who have concluded this agreement, I believe that the Stortinget can now wait until 1 June before discussing the major solutions. It is tempting to start thinking about alternative solutions, for example: for E18 westward. I believe that right now this must be the responsibility of regional politicians. As mentioned earlier, the drivers help people in Oslo and Akershus to get a better collective offer. It would have been nice if the proposals of the Progress Party could also catch up on this, when they want a debate in the Stortinget on Oslopackak 3. One thing is the belief in building out of population growth with new roads, another thing is admitting that 70 pst. greenhouse gas emissions in this region are just private cars. In 20 years, there will be 250,000 new inhabitants. They cannot drive a car to work. Erna Solberg was at a meeting in Asker last week, and it is nice that she comes to Akershus and sees the challenge you have, especially with E18. It is rare that I agree with Erna Solberg, but she says that this growth must be taken with collective action, it is not a right that people who live and drive on the E18 should be allowed to drive alone by car to work. There are good signals from a major and important contract party in Oslopackak 3. Then we've read the NTP proposals. There is a focus on public transport and urban population growth. That discussion shall be difficult for the Workers' Party to enter into. That's when we're faced with an opportunity to make some solutions that will be good for people living here. More people want to live in cities, we know that. We have to take that discussion. The working party doesn't think you can build yourself out of everything by making new paths. We don't think queue, cork and chaos are the solution. We think people here deserve a better climate. That discussion must take the Size. I would like to end by recommending the Committee's position, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party are behind, which reads: ‘Document 8:57 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1270	I feel that the Progress Party, with this proposal, wants to announce itself from the debate on what we are going to do in the Oslo region. Obviously, here we feel that the challenge is that we have too much to drive a car to and from work, and that there are too few people who want to travel collectively. There is no solution, of course, then, to remove the user funding and make it even more attractive to drive a car. User finance thinks I can have two good and positive sides. The only thing is that it provides funding, funds, that we can use for both roads and collective action. The second is that it has a controlling effect. When it comes to Oslopack 3, one has both the effects – both that we get more money for those who are busy building roads and betting on public transport, and that it has a regulatory effect. We know that there are reports that say that within a 20-year perspective, we can increase queues by 70 pst, i.e. that the cows in the capital can increase by 70 pst in time. the next 20 years. That one then makes a proposal that makes this situation even worse, I find it hard to understand. I think the toll system works well when it comes to having a regulatory effect, but I think it's a challenge that the funding of Oslopackak 3 is so that the more people who drive cars, the more money we spend on actions within Oslopackak3 and the more people who like to drive collectively, the less money we get. So we've kind of opposed the incentive use of what we need. We want fewer cars to drive. If that's the result, we get less money for important bets in Oslopackak 3. If we get more people to drive collectively, we know that it's going to cost money, for every new person who chooses to travel collectively, it's going to cost the public $10 or more. That's why I think when we get to the next NTP, it's our responsibility – as users' funding supporters – to look at how we can transform the incentive structure, so that regional politicians get a match here, and that they can get more money if they succeed. Now it's the opposite, and it's a paradox -- the better they're happy with what's our goal, the less money they get inside Oslopackak 3. So I also believe that the state must take responsibility for large collective investments. We can look back at what happened in the 1990s when we got the bet on the T-Bahn system, i.e. the ring system. Then it was the labor party government that wanted to lift this big and important project. At that time, the politicians in the Municipality of Oslo were actually unsure about how to look at that project, but the state went into both the regulatory work and the financial work. I think I'm going to have to take a closer look at this in the future. But it's not just Oslo – it's also about cities like Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim, where we also have to lift the urban runway bet. It is essential for us to meet the major collective challenges we face in our big cities. So I'm just going to remind you of what the NHO said today to a whole big committee. It was just that user funding is an important tool, and regulatory action is absolutely necessary. I am pleased that there is a large majority in this matter that is in agreement with the NHO, and the government party is united with both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. I also expect the collective Left Party – which is coming now – to be united in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1283	I am very pleased that Oslopackak 3 is on the agenda. This package is a package that I have followed from the ‘birth’ in 2001, when former Minister of Transport Odd Einar Dørum launched this package as a solution to the challenges we faced in terms of traffic density and population growth around our capital. This was predictable and solution-oriented, and a natural continuation on Oslopackak 1 which was about road, Oslopackak 2, which was about public transport, and now Oslopackak 3, which takes up both road and collective. Odd Einar Dørum spent a lot of time, telephones not least, and forces to reach a cross-political consensus. He did so, but he did not – and a little paradoxical, which the representative Hov Egg was in – the Progress Party in Akershus. But they support the package subsidiaryly. Without this cross-political consensus, I'm not sure where we were today. The idea of state funding is, of course, very tempting, but as little realistic as that the state is going to finance all the other road and collective packages that we are dealing with in this Chamber. So much money doesn't have the Left within a responsible budget, even though in our alternative budgets we spend more money on transportation than the government parties. However, like the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, we believe that the state must take a much greater responsibility for expensive solutions in the major cities, such as the Fornebu track, the path to Aarhus and the Kolsåsbanen. Former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm had a much greater focus on the big cities than what we see the two central government councils have and have had. Population growth in and around the big cities is formidable. The left believes that most of the traffic has to be taken with collective travel. It also includes road construction that can take the form of buses away from public transport. For example, in Asker and Bærums Budstikke this week, we could read that it is «Swine expensive to wait for E18». A consultant report from Pöyry shows that queues and delays for freight transport at E18 today have an annual cost of between 670 and 1000 million. kr. That's going to increase to 2.050 million. NOK 2030 if the distance is not substantially corrected. I can confirm a lot of this, as I am almost daily looking at the traffic on the E18. The provision of collective services along the E18 in the West Corridor is getting better, and the number of collective travellers in Akershus has increased considerably in recent years. But not everyone is going to stretch the road to Oslo, many people need a private car in their daily profession, and the collective offer across Oslo and Akershus is still too bad. The E18 in the western region is Norway’s most trafficked road, with an ÅDT of almost 100,000. I believe that the state should also take a greater responsibility for this way, and I choose to read the recording from the trade unions so that the State Road Service also believes this – but then with tolls, which we also have today. We've set up an extra bomb that's going primarily to go to the E18, so there's great expectations that something is happening there. In conclusion, although the Left does not support the proposal of the Progress Party, it is very positive that Oslopak 3 travels at regular intervals in this Chamber, because that is Norway's most populated area we are talking about. Being able to travel collectively there becomes very important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1298	A strong population growth is expected both in Oslo and Akershus and in other parts of the country for years to come. This will present major challenges for transport and infrastructure. The transport networks and Avinor, in their proposal for the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, have taken the view that traffic needs to be affected by public transport, cycling and walking if it is to be possible to maintain a functional and attractive capital region. It has also been a great population in the last years of Oslo and Akershus. Traffic developments have, however, been positive. Traffic tellers show that car traffic in Oslo is lower than in 2004. In Akershus there is still growth in car traffic, but growth has been noticeably less in recent years than the population growth was expected to. The explanation of the positive developments is compounded. Important factors are probably a better and cheaper collective supply and increase price through the bombing. The proposal to remove toll collection in Oslo could therefore break the positive traffic trends in Oslo and Akershus and lead to an urban development with more traffic and greater traffic and environmental problems. The party of progress is here speaking for the free private car industry and did not seem to take into account traffic disruption in its proposal. Although toll collection in Oslo does not have traffic management as its primary objective, it is nevertheless such that the collection leads to a certain traffic rejection. Model calculations made by the State Road Service show that toll dismantling in Oslo can give a traffic boost of about 10 pst. in the toll section. Overall, Oslo and Akershus will increase car traffic by 5-7 pst. Public transport will lose market share. Already today there are some major needs problems on the road network in the morning and afternoon. The size of delays and the duration of intoxication vary. The most pressing problems are in some sections, such as the Oslo inner city, the Ring 3 and the three corridors in and out of town. Increased car traffic will increase capacity problems. This will also cause problems for buses and trams. It is not possible to build on the multi- and wider challenges of capacity. The proposal for the State full funding of Oslopackak 3 could therefore lead to an unfortunate development in Oslo and Akershus with more need in the road network and major environmental problems. The proposal also has major economic implications. I understand that not everyone is paying attention to it, but the revenue from the tolling is in the order of 2 billion. kr per year. I want Oslopackak 3 to continue to be passed on and financed with both tolls and state games and county municipal funds. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee is not in favour of the proposal for the State full funding of Oslopackak 3. I am aware that there is now a local work going through Oslopackakt3 when it concerns both the contents of the package and financing solutions. I don't want to go into these issues in this round, but I would like to mention that to the Oslopack 3 Steering Group, I have followed up the government and Stortinget's leadership on good economic management of the package, focus on climate, and that the main objective of good traffic performance for all traffic groups is highlighted. With regard to the new national transport plan, there was a clear order in Guideline 2 from the Ministry that the budgets should take particular account of how the state can contribute to a greater extent than today, with co-financing that just strengthens public transport, bicycles and walking. The budgets have so far responded with concrete proposals for follow-up, and I must say that I am looking forward to the debate we are about to have on this in the spring of 2013. I think it is absolutely necessary for the state to set up in a bigger and better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1324	Here is the overview of all the projects in Oslopackak 3. On almost all of them, there are great exceedances. Does not the Council of State feel a certain responsibility when it is the Swedish Road Administration that is responsible for doing this job, towards the Municipality of Oslo, Akershus County Municipality, which now receives an extra bill of over 40 billion. kr for the drivers directly in the prisoner? And what does the Council of State think about considering setting up five antenna points on the west corridor each way on the E18? It's going to be expensive. Is there no limit to how much Norwegian drivers can be skinned?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1330	There are many good speeches today in this debate – illustrative contributions from different parties – one in some highlights the fine-looking compromise reached in Oslopackak 3, i.e. in the follow-up to Oslopackak 1 and Oslopackak 2. It has been said in time that portfolio management should be in the sense that priority should be given to the most effective measures. I stress that local democracy, which has thus entered into this agreement, is also now following up and looking at what one will prioritise further, and how this is to be financed, and then we are going to come back to this matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1337	Two things: there was considerable criticism from the National Audit Office about the management of the funds paid by the drivers in Oslopack 2. How is it followed up in connection with Oslopackak 3? The second is that the Council of State closed its intervention by saying that the state needs to improve its participation significantly in relation to the current situation. What does that mean? What is significant? Let's talk about a 50 pst state share.? It is natural to think of 50 pst., for the starting point for the toll-smoked parties on the Stortinget, all except the Advance Party, has been that one could exceptionally finance with tolls – that has become the rule in the meantime – based on the fact that there was a division 50-50. Let's see 50 pst. cost coverage from the state on packages à la Oslopackak 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1344	I used the word important in connection with the problems of need that already exist in the Oslo area, and that we see will be reinforced in the future. I also used the expression that the state should set up ‘in a larger and better way’ in the future to resolve the collective, bicycle and pedestrian issues. Oslo is in a special position today because the state has several hundred million dollars in relation to local trains, which one does not do in other areas. But it's clear that here we have to look at how we're going to contribute significantly over the next ten years, and then we also have to start a work on a KVU for a new Oslo tunnel for both the T-Bahn and the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1349	I hear that the Council of State has become some masculine in voice, so I thought I would continue on the same question, so that the Council of State can only say yes. I see that on Rv. 2, which broke, and where the State Road Service made a mistake, the Council of State and the government took the bill. With regard to the billions of costs that Oslopackak 3 has now incurred, will the Council of State take the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1356	I'm glad that a cold is usually passing. I'm a little forward myself for the voice that I have today, but it's a good thing that the birds are going to sing with each other's beak, and then we're going to do the same! To the question let me say: The management group in Oslopackakt 3 is now going through Oslopackakt 3, they are looking at the content of the package, they are looking at funding solutions. That's what I think they're both right and necessary. I'm not going into the details there. Then there are many examples of our overruns in road projects. There are also some who come out under budget. There will be a discussion in each case of how to use the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1365	The Council of State is comforted by the fact that the signatures have not always been boasted of their voice, and that is the permanent voice! What I want to ask the Council of State about is: the management group for the Oslo package has worked very well. Is there a model that might also be applicable to other big cities to grips with some of the coordination, which I thought worked better in Oslo and Akershus? Then I was in my post inside the T-course. When the T-Bahn in its time came in Oslo, there was the smallest city in the world with a T-Bahn solution, and that was because the state took a considerable responsibility. The same thing happened to me in the 1990s with the extension of the T-rail system with the Ring. We are forced to have more bulwarks in both Oslo and Akershus. Is the State willing to give priority to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1374	There will be a very exciting debate in the future on how the state will contribute. We have to remember that this isn't just about the Oslo area, although that's what we put in focus today. There are also other, strongly expanding urban areas in our country where there is a need for a solid strengthening of collective provision. Let me now not shift either the organisation, the technical solutions or the funding, but let me say: I am convinced that the state must take greater responsibility for both the organisation and financing of a significantly better collective service than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1379	First, I want to say that I am very pleased with what the Minister for Transport says about her wanting to take a greater responsibility for the expensive urban railway solutions we have around, and – as the Minister for Transport himself said – she has a big focus on a new Oslo tunnel. There are two very important areas. In my post I went to the E18 in the West Region and what costs it has for business. This is both a local road and a large transit route. I know the recording from the trade unions, but I want to hear the Minister of Transport's thoughts about this road section.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1386	What's most urgent about E18 is to put in place collective fields that allow people to travel collectively both ways, both inside and out of town. Otherwise, E18 is also a candidate for closer discussion in the steering group and between the municipalities involved and the county council. I want to wait for the discussions that are taking place. Now there is no doubt that the E18 is an important transport year and will be it in the future, both for those travelling by bus and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1395	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1400	I'm just going to mention a couple-three relationship that skips. First, there is expected to be a huge population growth in both Oslo and Akershus. It's a wild policy. It is not a policy to be implemented, but it is a policy to be pursued, and it is a policy to be implemented. That's a starting point. It creates enormous needs. Those who want that policy to be pursued must take responsibility for it. That was point 1. In the notes it is quoted from a letter from the Council of State: ‘Increased car traffic will reinforce the capacity problems’. If you think so – let's say that's the case: why don't you fully finance all public transport? Wouldn't that be the most sensible thing to do? It is said that it will be impossible for public transport if we build roads – that is not possible. Well, here stands the Council of State and several other representatives in the Chamber saying public transport, public transport, public transport, but no one is promoting proposals for full state funding of the collective action within Oslopackak 3. It's just talk -- excuse me, President -- it's just talk, and it's been from day one. Now you could take this seriously. 35 B.C.E. kr, said the representative Ingerd Schou, there's a lot of money. Yeah, that's a lot of money, but that's actually what it costs. When you're doing this snitching of the drivers and everyone else who's on our roads, it's an extra tax, because it's not a user payment. You do not drive a bus while driving a car. It's not user payment. I pay for the neighbor who is driving a bus. It's not user pay, it's an extra tax of NOK 5000 to NOK 10000, which it's going to be gradually, and maybe more than that. If you live, for example. around the West Corridor, which has been taken out of the package, and possibly, shall be financed separately, and there will be NOK 10000 to NOK 20000 per year. Where do you think that money goes? Do you think every single person running there is going to pay it? Of course it won't be like that. They will go to their employer and say that this costs me to get to work – the employer will have to pay and finance it. What does the employer do? Yes, there will be production costs for the employer, he will apply. What happens then to the goods he produces? They're getting more expensive. What happens to Norwegian competitiveness? Yeah, it's going down. So we're sitting with the State pension fund of 3,500 billion. kr abroad as we invest in our competitor's infrastructure, and then we let our own industry die, because we insist on taxing businesses even more. It's not wise, it's stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1410	My commitment to this debate is, of course, linked to my being a proposer, but also to my being a commuter from Akershus and into Oslo for 20 years, and I would say that I have a firsthand knowledge of how the commuters from Akershus have it on their daily journey into and out of Oslo. Just to clarify: I mostly use public transport, the railway, and see that even from where I come from, a good deal out on Rome, there are rarely seats inwards to Oslo, and at least not home again. I would say that the situation on the train is now simply dangerous in terms of safety. The system is in the process of total collapse, and it has not entered the responsible authorities. Even if you want only a small percentage reduction in the number of drivers, the collective system will not be able to accept them properly. Therefore, it is not excluded that investment must be made both in road and in public transport. In addition, the situation of access parking is also totally unsatisfactory. We also see that the state has been fully responsible for financing infrastructure in this country. The inhabitants of Akershus now experience that toll stations have come in every direction. On the E18 westwards, E6 southwards, new E6 northwards, with many toll stations running, rv. 2, and I'm not going to rule out that you get to rv. 22 also eventually. This shows that you run from the bill, and even I, who is a daily user of public transport, get a significant toll bill every year to cover the leisure traffic I have. That is why I am disappointed that the right here in the debate says that increased government funding is unrealistic. At the same time, you say that the Right is a toll section. I am disappointed because it also shows that there is no credibility in tax policy when there is nothing to do with taxes and taxes that you can really do about.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1417	I'm a little over-worded and how you want to focus on the different things. We know that we are facing a formidable growth in the population, in both Oslo and Akershus. At the same time, the Council of State and many others say that we cannot build ourselves out of population growth. It could be nice to look at how to avoid building out of the growth that we're going to get. The progress party is not just talking about building a road. We're also talking about expanding public transport, and we're also talking about building railways. But the problem is that when we promote real money for projects that go on both road, rail and public transport, the government votes it down. Others stand and use the pulpit here and talk about the environmental problem that we will get and that we have. Yes, of course we do. In all cities we have a problem with harmful emissions. It says itself. But what happens when the Progress Party proposes not to charge the GTL, which will be less polluting? Then it'll be tuned down. What happens when the Progress Party proposes to reduce the one-off charge on cars, so that people can get the opportunity to buy newer, more modern cars, with more advanced technology, which in turn gives less emissions? Yeah, that's when you put it down. The only area where enormous creativity is used is not to promote climate and the best for the population, but to find ways to leave the payment through extra taxes to the population. In that area, when it comes to taxing one's own inhabitants, I would say that this government has incredible abilities and a tense imagination.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1424	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1441	An event two years ago in Tønsberg is the real background for this interpellation. Then our world-renowned violinist Arve Tellefsen became a pedestrian after a traffic control. The teller, who was then 72 years old, had overlooked the fact that those who were 70 years old, had to have a medical certificate to obtain the right to drive a car. The EU Driving Licence Directive, introduced in January 2013, raises the age limit for medical certificates to 75 years as a consequence of the evolution of life expectancy in Europe. In Norway, the average life expectancy increases by two months per year. Continuing this development, in 20 years we will live three years and four months longer than in 2012. The majority of older people are speakers than ever, while the number of young people are gradually growing to need Community help and support to maintain their quality of life. It's not just in the world of work that the wave of old age beats us in. We experience it very much in traffic. It is still the case that locals bring pictures and reports of 100-year-olds who are still driving a car. In 20 years it will probably be so common that no one bothers to care about it! Some figures can illustrate this: Among women over 80 years of age, there were 73 pst in 2005. who did not have a car. Among men, the same year was only 23 pst. who did not have a car. It is equally interesting that in the 65–69 age group, there were 71 psts. by women and 93 pst. by the men who had a car. And in the 60–64 age group, the numbers show that 89 pst. by the women and a total of 95 pst. of the men had a car. My point is that those who were 64 in 2005 have passed 70 years now, and although there are enough people who have paid the driver’s license, most of them still drive – not just because the car is almost an extension of the body, but because the car is absolutely essential for older people’s mobility and thus also quality of life. Women live consistently longer than men. Nevertheless, women surrender their driving licence earlier than men. The women stop driving when they are 78.5 years old, the men wait until they are 79.5 years old. But it's hardly long before the women take the men back in that way. So, overall, there are several older people who are driving a car any longer. Now it is just enough that the ability to drive a car decreases with age, but today there are six out of ten in the 80–85 age group who have driving licences, and every five over 90 years are still drivers. I don't think we've completely taken into account the significance of this development. The aim of this interpellation is, therefore, to draw attention to the elderly in traffic and also to help the elderly become a theme of the transport plan audit, with the good intention of facilitating more people to drive cars of old age. It is important because it has such an impact on the well-being of the elderly, but also because it creates some challenges. For this reason, I think it is timely that we now have a discussion about our own arrangements for the elderly in the traffic. For example, there may be limited local driving rights or limited driving rights to the time of light, for those who have problems running in the dark. In this regard, I choose to focus on the importance of the car for the well-being of the elderly, knowing that good collective solutions and special transport are equally important for those who do not have the opportunity to use a car, or who are people with reduced mobility. For a while ago, the Dagsrevyen was concerned with the problems of the call-out vehicles in traffic. A police officer could then tell all the people that it was preferably older drivers who did not comply with the weight duty, thus preventing the evacuation vehicles from coming forward. Apart from the fact that such statements are, at best, brother-in-law research, they are stigmatizing and discriminatory towards the elderly in traffic. There is no evidence to claim that older people are even worse drivers than others. Compared to e.g. young drivers have a much lower accident risk. At the same time, it is clear that the risk increases with age, although most adapt their driving according to their ability. They compensate for lack of skills with greater care. We know that many older people do not drive a car at the time of high traffic, stick to areas where they are well known, drive little when it is smooth or dark, etc. I had almost added: Older drivers are like groups who keep the speed limits to the greatest extent. But it's also brother-in-law research. In addition, the accident risk is reduced through the Road Service’s refresher course for older drivers, what is called ‘Driver 65+’, which may need to be changed to ‘Driver 70+’ as a consequence of the evolution of life. Very many older drivers take part in these courses, which in itself is an expression that many see the benefits of them. When the age limit for a medical certificate is now raised to 75 years and the licence has to be renewed de facto, there is a question of whether this offer should be extended strongly. Many suggest that traffic dementia is becoming a serious road safety problem. Demos is a creeping disease that evolves over time. Frequency increases in old age. In Norway, we have little knowledge of the problem of dementia in traffic. In the rest of the world, and mainly in the United States, some studies have been made of this problem. People who daily stand with road safety in the state road system more than suggest that more of the cases we have had with driving towards the direction of driving on four-field motorways can be attributed to dementia. In some cases, drivers have simply not been able to perceive the traffic situation. According to Knut Arne Engedal’s textbook on dementia, dementia is a rare disease in the age group under 65. 1 pst. in the 65-69 age group suffers from the disease but then increases to 3-4 pst. aged 70–75 years and 7–8 pst. in the 75-79 age group. In the group over 80 years, it's all 20 pst. which is dementia. Studies from the United States show that demente, compared to a control group of healthy people of the same age group, has two to two and a half times higher accident rates than others on the road. According to Dr. Anne Brekhus of Oslo University Hospital, who has studied dementia for a number of years, it is important that the caregivers pay attention to – and focus on – this when issuing a health certificate. This is even more important when we know that the health certificate requirement is raised to 75 years. However, it is difficult — including for doctors — to assess whether, and when, the mental failure is so great that it can be a danger to traffic. It is in itself a problem that there are usually fixed doctors, who do not always have sufficient experience in this area, who are required to issue health certificates to older drivers. In other words, the patient’s permanent staff member shall, where appropriate, be deprived of the entitlement to drive concerned. This can lead to the patient no longer treating the doctor as a co-player, but counter-performing, with the negative consequences this has. Moreover, when we know that the patient often sees losing his driving licence as a regular detention, I am not surprised that the decision-makers often let the doubt benefit the patient. Then I'm going to rush to add that an Alzheimer's diagnosis does not mean that the patient loses his driving licence. There are good examples of patients with early Alzheimer’s disease having successfully passed a driving test. Overall, in my view, more research should be done on dementia in traffic – for reasons of road safety and the mobility and quality of life of older people.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1483	The representative of Gullvåg is taking up an important matter. The general state of health is getting better, the average age of the population is increasing, and older road users – both drivers and pedestrians – are becoming an increasing proportion of road users. The talk shows that about 80 pst. of the population aged 65 or over, will have a driving licence in 2020. In addition, older people are increasingly mobile, and they have more running experience than previous generations. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the risk of accidents increases significantly for road users over 75 years. Ageing reduces the ability and ability to travel safely. At the same time, it is particularly important for the quality of life of older people that they can continue to have an active and mobile way of life, as long as this is justified in terms of road safety. During the period 2007-2010, the State Road Service carried out a high-risk road transport project. Older drivers are one of the groups in the project. Young drivers, motorcyclists, drug addicts and non-Western migrants were calculated in the same way. The background to older people being defined as a high-risk group was, among other things, one saw that older road users, as much as young drivers, are triggering parties in the openings in which they are involved. The project includes, inter alia: the typical clocks in which older people are involved, and the reasons behind the clocks. E.g. one concluded that disease is the most common contributing cause factor in fatal outcomes for drivers over 75 years of age. This shows that we need to take the health requirements for older drivers seriously. At the same time, we see that older drivers who have a lot of driving experience are doing better than those who run little, as was also underlined by the interpellant. This shows the need to spread knowledge about how important it is to maintain your own skills and exercise. Training measures aimed at older drivers are thus important. The findings of the high-risk project have given us a lot of useful experience for all the groups involved. This is something we can build on the road safety work further in the next transport planning period. When it comes to health, people have been better and better in recent years. Average lifespan path. The older population in Norway is healthier and more pronounced than ever. This is largely the case in most EU countries. Until now, those over 70 years of age have had to carry a health certificate when driving a car. Due to the general deterioration in the health status of the population, the Ministry of Transport has decided to raise the health certificate threshold from 70 to 75 years. Norway is fully in line with the EU. The amendment will enter into force from January 2013, and the validity of the entitlement will be reflected in the driving licence itself. Although the general health status of the elderly is good, we must take seriously the fact that weight health poses a risk to road safety. It is important to have good mechanisms to capture those who do not actually meet the health requirements for driving a car. In this context, I would like to mention a work that has been done in More and Romesdal. There, the State Road Administration, the police and the county doctor have established a partnership to catch people who no longer meet the health requirements for having a driver’s card. This is not about changing or introducing a more stringent code, but about practicing and enforcing the legislation, in line with the legislation that has been drafted by the legislator. According to the State Road Service, the number of deadlocks in the county has already fallen as a result of this improved cooperation. In order to contribute to the safe mobility of older drivers, the State Road Administration has for more than 10 years been conducting the course «Cars 65+». The course is a voluntary and useful offer for all who are over 60 years of age. It is arranged in most places in the country. By means of discussions, conversations, and running training, older people will be helped to continue using a car safely. The aim is to obtain 30 pst according to the State Road Safety Action Programme. of the relevant classes of the year to be included in the course by 2013. The course is marketed through advertisements, on the web and through letters. Several thousand people have participated in the 'Cars 65+' course until now. The former participants have said that they have benefited greatly from the course, not least because many themes are reviewed at the request of the participants and are locally adapted. This may apply to everything from community roundabouts and challenging breakaway situations to more general field change and parking. During the period 2004-2006, the Transport Economic Institute carried out an examination of the effect of ‘Pilots 65+’. Those who had completed such a course were compared to people who had not taken the course. The report shows 18 p.m. reduced risk of accidents among men and 71 pst. among women. Unfortunately, participation has decreased slightly in recent years and is now below 20 pst. To change this negative development, the State Road Service is currently considering the whole price model and is looking at alternative ways to drive the course, so that one can capture the most possible of the drivers of the current age. Older people are also an deferred group as pedestrians. The 2011 figure shows that 18 pedestrians were killed in road traffic accidents. Of these, nine were over 65. The reason why older people are overrepresented in pedestrian hatches is probably composed. In general, universal design can be said to be combined with technology, e.g. Intelligent transport systems can become more important in the future both for safety and for the emergence of pedestrians. Otherwise, let me say that the representative Gullvåg himself mentions several measures that it is well worth looking closer to. He also focused on research. There is probably no doubt that even if one here has some sort of distribution, larger projects that have been followed over a long period of time, so too, that part can be completely open-mindedly accentuated. Here, it is important to have both up-to-date knowledge of the actual situation and knowledge of measures that can contribute to an even safer traffic, including for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1519	I would like to thank the Council of State for obviously focusing on the elderly in traffic, and especially because she highlights two elements that have a very important impact on the safety, mobility and quality of life of the elderly in the future. The first element is that the so-called refresher courses, which have produced very good results, should be continued and further developed so that more people can participate in them. I carefully suggested in my post that maybe you move 65+ to 70+, because I think it's even more important that the group between 70 and 75 years of age get part of such refresher and training. I know that this has also been included in the assessment, but that no position has yet been taken on this, but I would like to emphasise at least that the need for such a course increases with increasing age. The second element underlined by the Council of State is the use of new technology, which will obviously make it easier for those who have different – I was going to say – sensory impairments and motion impairments, to be able to travel safely in traffic. Just think about what's become common in the cars, electronic distance meters both in front and in the back, and it's probably not long before we get electronics that make it possible to communicate better between road and car, for example. electronic middle parts – in addition to all the automation available in modern cars today, enabling drivers to travel more safely in traffic. So I thank the Council of State for its response and stress the need to continue to focus on this as we move into the transport plan discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1528	I would like to pay tribute to the representative of Gullvåg for his invitation to perhaps see something closer to the 65+ borders. I think that it is possible to assume that there are several thousand people here who are very pleased to have completed this course, perhaps first and foremost stress the need to market this even better, to make it known to more people, to get even more people to set this up, rather than to move borders, but I take it with me in the further work. The representative of Gullvåg also refers to the use of geographically restricted driving licences for the elderly. It is such today that the legislation opens up to geographically defined driving rights following a closer concrete assessment by a doctor and by the State Road Administration. This means that when people who do not comply with health requirements are allowed to drive a restricted area, typically their own neighbourhood – and one has made an assessment of the individual case – in its vicinity, unexpected situations may arise that may lead to a danger to the driver himself or to other road users. I also want to use the ability to underline another page. First of all, it is gratifying that from 1 January we have had the opportunity to equate running under the influence of alcohol – i.e. follow-up/punishment in relation to it – with the use of other drugs and drugs. There has been some uncertainty in the use of the necessary medicines by the elderly. Let me say that as long as the drugs are used as they are written by the doctor – and do not mean that one is affected – then a legal one is running. It is assessed individually as before. The fixed runtime limits do not apply to these cases. It was very necessary and important to establish a level playing field for what in sum can be called ‘Russ-affected running’. It's said that there may be as many as 100,000 running trips every day that happen in a drug-induced state on our roads, and it's important to distinguish between this and the use of drugs that have been prescribed by doctors. I look forward to the recordings that had to be recorded in this interview: I'm going to follow them up both in the department and in the state road system. I think it's important that we focus even more strongly than we do right now on this age group, and ensure mobility on the one hand and road safety on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1541	There are important points the representative Gullvåg takes up in this interview, and I also think that the Council of State has given a thorough explanation on the subject. Today's debate is also important for us in the Transport Committee, which is now to be working on the revision of the National Transport Plan. The traffic cake on our roads has been formidable for the last decade. It is just as the interpellant points out that the number of older drivers has also been — and is — strongly increasing, while life expectancy is increasing year by year, and that older drivers are also running. The state road system has implemented a project on high-risk groups in road traffic, and together with categories such as young drivers, motorcyclists, drug addicts and non-Western migrants, older drivers are one of the groups on which this project has concentrated. The reason for defining older people as a high-risk group for this project was that the accident statistics show that older road users are as much as young drivers as they are triggering in the openings in which they are involved. That being said, it is also important to point out that older people are like other people, they are different. And even though older people as a group are more out-of-date than those who are not older, there are a lot of our older drivers who are also among our best and most up-to-date drivers. That's why I think the focus and possible measures need to be more targeted at drivers with risk behaviour than against age. Long-distance traffic is, in principle, better for drivers, but there is nothing to deny that ageing also implies a weakening of senses and responsiveness, which is also very important for safe traffic behaviour. It must then be important, both for drivers and for passengers, for those older in traffic who are at risk to be detected before serious accidents occur, and for action to be taken. It is not always true that an older driver, who may have run flawlessly for 50 years, is the one who first sees that running is dangerous for himself and others. Then, too, it can be very stressful when close family members are the ones who propose sanctions against driving. In some cases, in my view, the determinations must be more focused on this side of health control of the elderly, and in some cases they should probably have been tougher to refuse further driving. It must be right that ageing also means updating on running skills and securing technically up-to-date equipment that makes traffic safer both for themselves and for others. Of course, I'm not exactly older, but most people will be able to characterize me as half-old. I myself thought that I was a quite perfect driver, and I have also been of the opinion that I have been a perfect pleasure boater after many years and several boats, until I signed up and started a boat driver's test course here on the house. Only then did I understand how much I had not gotten before. I'm going to be more careful, especially on the security aspects of life when I start a new boating season these days. Based on this, I think the course 'Cars 65+' must be a very good step. Although there are many older drivers who have completed this course, I would like to see everyone who comes at that age go through this refresher.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1558	Honor the representative of Gullvåg to address an important matter. It's not so often the honor comes from the undersigned to Gullvåg, but the greater reason to do so in this context. What makes both me and we in the Advancement Party think this is interesting is not just because I am 65 years old myself. It's that it goes into an area that deals with getting more people's lives, and that it has consequences in a number of areas, including traffic. That's why it's an important thing. The health of the elderly is improved: therefore, old, slightly ingrained and square problems that age is necessarily a problem, may need to be reversed a little. It is reflected in what is now happening through EU initiatives, by amending the driving licence rules also in Norway from 1 January 2013 to move an age limit from 70 to 75. In this respect, I would also like to support the view of the representative, Mr Gullvåg, that it might be appropriate to move the ‘Car driver 65 +’ to 70 + +. That said, there is also reason to reflect on the fact that there are enough groups of drivers who need to be refreshed. We can then say daily that there is a good deal of strange behaviour from road users that clearly shows that many had benefited from some refreshment. But refreshment is important, and what has been added to the right for «our older» drivers, I say, should be used by many. This is how the call for it is given. I want to point out what the State Road Service itself says about those who carry out this: ‘With the completion of the refresher course and health certificate together with the driving licence, older ones are among the safest on the road.’ That's where we want to be as safe as possible on the road. It is not just us older drivers who have a responsibility to contribute to it, it has all road users, and especially all drivers. What I miss in the Council of State's reference to the interpellation is the materially practical aspect of the interpellation, namely that it will no longer be enough with a separate health certificate, but that it is therefore necessary to renew driving licences. I hope that there is a little bureaucratic and square system, where you only need a new document. It's a little bit unclear if it's in that you're also going to have some kind of new driving test. I would like a clarification of that. Even requiring a new card, i.e. a new document, is, as I just said, a bit bureaucratic. Is that necessary? Security must be in a medical statement. This gives me the opportunity to say, as others have said, that there is a significant responsibility on the doctors, who then give the medical certificate to those who need it in order to continue driving a car, and that it is not easily and easily done. Often it may not be done medically well enough for the sake of a long relationship between a fast doctor and a patient. There must be a real content of the medical certificate. It must also be such that it must be easy to renew it when the health conditions provide for it. I have to remind you that the group of older people is quite extensive. I am here at the age of 65, so we have seen reports about people who drive a car with a driving licence – legal – both when they are 90 years old, 95 years old and, in fact, up to 100 years old. So it's a long tension when we talk about older people in traffic, even after the age limit has been raised from 70 to 75 years. Above all, it must be easy for those who will still be allowed to drive, and this should have the most opportunity. When life expectancy increases and the health of many older people improves, mobility is important for all older people, and then car and car use is an important part of such mobility.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1587	First, thank you to Steinar Gullvåg, who addresses an important question – and which for us who have come a little further, becomes more important and important eventually. Romethives described themselves as ‘half-old’. That's what I thought I was putting in a little bit. As the oldest elected member of the Stortinget, I describe myself as a good adult – and have come no further than that. It might be a little bit based on what Gullvåg says, that we live longer and longer, and for every year we get the opportunity to join, we add two months. I have told myself that the more years I join, the more months I put on – and with reference to my wife who has said to me: If you are going to get through all your projects, you must be at least 150 years old. Then I think like that: yes, then I get to try it. I belong to those who think it is fun to drive a car. It's very useful for me – and I drive a car very often – because I live in rural areas, and there's not much public communication going on. It was mentioned earlier in the inter-pelling debate, including by the Council of State, that a possible delimitation – geographical demarcation – given whether you can drive, is probably an opportunity. Gullvåg mentioned that for many of us the car is an extension of the body. We've had some funny cases where you've described a great car as an extension of body parts. But in many cases it is such that you move so intimately with the car that it feels as if the car is an extension of yourself. There is no doubt that as you get older, you observe things later, and you react a little later. But that might be the ability to observe that gets weakened first. But like Rommetveit, I think there are other road users who are constantly as dangerous in traffic as the elderly. I was last witness to the other day – just before the airport. It was a bridge driver who had driven into another car, and I didn't understand why, but it came in the media the next day – he was affected by drugs. I think there are more of them than we want to believe, which are dangerous in traffic – without older people. In my hometown, the group of those who make up the volunteer center, who bring food out to those who are unable to fix it themselves, and who go out and both mutter snow and do other services, are over 80 years old. I think that maybe even more than what we've done so far, we should start looking at the elderly as a resource, not just as a group of people you have to look after, who need help and support. If things work out as many people seem to believe, the number of years you can spend in society, instead of receiving, will increase. I happen to be one of those people who said that if you keep your health, there's no reason to stop contributing and providing because of a physical age. As a youth, I remember the horror when in traffic we met those we called 'hat call', especially if he drove an Opel record. One of the hats in an Opel Record was deadly. First, he drove very slowly, so he stopped the traffic, and secondly, when he came to a cross, he was uncertain about where he was going to drive. Some of the problem is that the elderly drive a little slower. Therefore, it should have been possible to drive out of the way. There is some of the things that come up in the courses that are being held, and I have a great sense of course activities to refresh the knowledge and perhaps give new knowledge considering how to avoid being a traffic disability. It's rare you hear of old people running too fast and running out, but they can often be the cause of an accident because they're lying and pushing the traffic at very slow speed. That's why I realized that this with geographic demarcation can be an opportunity. Gullvåg was in on this with Alzheimer's. King Olav used to solve mathematical equations to keep himself up to date. He had learned a little from someone who had started right away and hoped that it helped. Otherwise, I agree with Gullvåg: Changing the refresher course from ‘Driver 65+’ to ‘driver 70+’ is a good proposal. I am pleased that Meltveit Kleppa has said that she will look at the measures presented by Gullvåg.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1613	I thank you for a good round about the elderly in traffic and feel the urge to underline it of course in that none of us want a number of older drivers travelling around Norwegian roads, and is a danger to themselves and others. It is necessary to underline. At the same time, it is important to stress that the car is a well-being for older people who make their quality of life better than if they do not have access to driving a car. Making it possible for older people to travel safely in traffic is, in my opinion, a major social task, a social task that we have not taken up enough to date, when the wave of older people enters the traffic. So with the attention that follows, we're going to have to look at other possibilities than what we've been willing to do so far. So the question is, how are we going to be able to break out those who, for health reasons, cannot continue their journey on the roads? The Council of State mentioned this project, which has been under the control of the State Road Administration in More and Romesdal, and which has already led to fewer accidents. But I have heard other reactions to this project, including: from pensioners’ associations, who have felt this as an intervention against the interests of the elderly and the elderly. What is so important is that we keep an eye on the balance between restrictive measures in this area and take advantage of the scope of the current traffic rules for limiting traffic rights in different contexts. I feel quite certain that the Council of State takes this into account in its further work on road safety for the elderly, and looks closely at the importance of increased quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1626	Let me thank the representative Steinar Gullvåg for the sequence to which he has now invited. Not every day, one of them shares personal experiences like one has done in this interview debate. Without becoming a debt to be stigmatizing, we must certainly be a few of us who have participated in this debate, that this is a kind of question that could also have been debated in the same way, for example. Organization Over 60. It is well that there was such a kind of debate that now abruptly occurred here. So there were a couple of concrete questions that I'm going to answer. The one thing is the question of renewing the driver card. Where, in any case, is there new rules, the representative asked Sortevik. First of all, we could choose between 10 and 15 years. We chose 15 to make this as simple as possible, but in addition, it's like renewal after an administrative decision – so no major procedures around it. So one last time in the course 'Does 65+'. It is true that one of the experiences of the State Road Service is that the effect of this course is greatest for the youngest participants, i.e. the youngest of those who are 65+. There is probably also something to include in the further work. Otherwise, I notice what Gullvåg said about focusing on the quality of life that it overwhelms, and the balance between being liberal and measures and legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1638	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1654	When I've chosen to focus on infrastructure in and out of More and Romesdal, that doesn't mean I'm unilaterally concerned with my own region. Looking at the map where More and Romesdal are located, and if you know a little about what is created by values and services in the region, it should not be difficult to understand that it is important to invest in transport in order to ensure continued competitiveness and mobility. For the Right, economic value creation is a prerequisite for well-being. Good logistics and infrastructure entering and leaving high value regions are therefore of great importance to the whole country. I want the Council of State today to give a picture of what she is planning to do in the preparation of the new National Transport Plan in order to ensure better cooperation between relevant departments and departments, in order to establish a more holistic approach to effective logistical nodes during the next planning period, where both port, track and road are taken seriously in regions where values are created. I also sent questions about cross-departments cooperation to the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast, after the Interpellation was reported – whether she would initiate a constructive dialogue with the Minister for Transport to promote forward-looking logistics solutions for More and Romesdal and Ålesund port. The interpellation was notified on 28 November last year, after the regional transport plan for Central Norway gave the impression that a logistical node should be provided in Trondheim to serve the whole of Central Norway. The port of Ålesund, the second largest port of Contein, was not mentioned. Nor did More and Romsdal, the third largest export country in traditional goods, and where large parts of exports are currently at sea. This caused fear and debate in the media. The questions that came up were whether More and Romesdal would be subject to a logistics hub in the Trondheims region, and whether, in that case, it would be prioritised at the expense of Ålesund port. A new port in Trondheim will contribute positively – there is no doubt – to strengthening maritime transport, but it must never be at the expense of Ålesund and More and Romsdal in the fight for funds for regional development. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has recently announced that the government is now serious about maritime transport. It's positive. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs also confirmed in his reply to me that her department has a good dialogue with the Ministry of Transport. She pointed out that of the current 32 core networks, Oslo, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Bergen and Tromsø are designated as particularly important for the development of efficient maritime transport of persons and goods. Together with the remaining parent ports, including Ålesund, these shall be connected to the maritime core network and have a national road connection. It means, according to the Council of Coastal States, that the state is responsible for the fairways and the roads to these ports. In addition, she claimed that it would be the market – goods owners and transport operators – which, based on economic and business considerations, chooses which ports are visited and thus determines which ports are central to the Norwegian transport system. This means that access — good transport paths into ports — is very important. If the authorities fail to establish good access routes, the product owners will choose the simplest solution, namely the road and not the sea route. More and Romesdal are an important factor in value creation and exports. The geography is challenging, with very narrow and worn-out roads – not to mention the great decay and the aftermath we have on the county roads, after the county was forced on them by the government. Our most important export year, the E136 Ålesund–Oppland border, is exposed and often closed. The improvement of the distance is now planned to be done piece by piece and divided, and you have to say that it is going very slowly. Right-wing believes that E136 should be built as a OPS project, as it will provide faster progress, more money-laundering and guaranteed good maintenance for 25 years. It was sad to record CargoNet's reduction in freight transport on Raumabanen, and that it happened because the track is in such poor condition that CargoNet can't afford to use it. It's quite serious. If you want to carry goods on this path, it needs to be improved. This shows little forward-looking policy in one of the largest export countries in the country. The result is a sharp increase in trailers through the road-hazardous Rome valley. The town of the ship's tunnel, which is an important key to getting more transport from road to sea, has been explored down and up in mind. Can we dare hope that it will ever come? I sincerely hope so. It would have been nice to get answers today – we'll see. In recent years, Norwegian industrial structures have become more global and knowledge-based. It has a major impact on freight transport. At the same time, we find that investment in maritime transport and the development of the necessary infrastructure related to port and rail are not proportionate to the needs or signalled by government and large-scale efforts. Norway is a country with strong maritime traditions, and forecasts show that we are facing a huge increase in freight volumes in the years up to 2040. When we know that one ship can carry up to 200 semi-trailers, it speaks to great advantage of a more focused effort on increased maritime transport. Therefore, the right is of the opinion that it is urgent to facilitate a more comprehensive culture structure, which can address the notified increase and ensure further economic development. We believe that increased use of maritime transport and rail in addition to good inland access years will be both business and socio-economic profitable. There's a lot of talk about fast and between the big cities. I hope the Council of State in the wider debate will take into account where the great values are created, from where the majority of freight transport is being sent out today in the international markets. My message to the Council of State is that the Oslo-Trondheim railway line must continue to pass through the Gudbrand valley. In this way, one can also develop Dombås-Åndalsnes to Ålesund and Sunnmøre – a growing region that is large in value creation and exports. If, on the other hand, the line is laid through the Østerdalen, it will mean a future scandal for export-oriented business in More and Romesdal and for the West Coast. Minister of Economic Affairs Trond Giske often boasts of a sunny business life. That's good, and we're very happy about that. However, it does not help to create good jobs and produce goods for export as long as the infrastructure for transporting the goods to the market does not exist or, at best, is in a very poor condition. The Council of State will be the driving force for bringing together the three departments, together with the responsible authorities for road, port and rail, with the aim of putting in place the necessary plans for regional infrastructure such as: Ålesund port. What will the Council of State do to improve the transport situation, so that we can avoid future transport problems for the population and business in More and Romesdal and the West Coast? I see I have more speaking time left. I hope the Council of State has noticed that I have tried here to link to the Minister of Fisheries, who is also the Minister of the Coast and is responsible for the ports, as I sent the question to the Minister of Fisheries about this in addition to the Minister of Transport. I also see the importance of going with the Minister of Industry here, that he looks at the whole thing about what this region means and how important it is for the whole of the West to do something about the transport corridors out and into the region. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1700	The government wants to reduce business transport costs. We know that it strengthens competitiveness and secures long-term value creation. We want to use the whole country. Then a well-developed infrastructure is very important. From 2005 until 2011 we have increased the path to road and rail by 70 pst. In the 2012 budget, the road and rail revenues increased by an additional 2.2 billion. kr. In the road sector, the pledges in the 2011 budget included, inter alia: an increase of 580 million. kr for maintenance, an increase of 60 pst. compared to the previous year's budgetary balance, and this level is continuing in the 2012 budget. The licences for operation, maintenance and investments for the railway will help to increase the speed and regularity of train services to the joy of both passenger and freight traffic. That being said, of course, I am not satisfied with the standard for road and rail. Demand in the transport sector is high. There is still a lot of work to be done. The basic statement to the State Road Administration shows that about 400 billion. kr – 500 br. kr must be provided for the national roads to have a good standard. The corresponding figure from the Railway Station shows that 250 billion. kr – 350 br. kr is necessary for the establishment of a future network. These are big sums. However, this gives rise to an ambition that within 20 years we will have a modern core network in place both on the road and on the road. Then the representative Røbeck Nørve asked what I would like to contribute to improving the transport situation in Møre and Romsdal. For the inhabitants of Møre and Romsdal, I can tell you that from the summer of 2012, I have given the NSB green light to strengthen the commitment to the tourism concept of Raumaban. This increases the regular supply of Raumaban, so that the number of departures is equal to the whole year. In addition, the tourists who come with cruise boats to Åndalsnes will get a tailor-made train offer on parts of the Raumaban and can enjoy the amazing nature that is on that route. There are also a number of measures on the way that I want to come back to in a bit. For commercial and freight transport, I would like to remind you that the freight market is open to competition – including for rail freight. Therefore, the company itself has to decide its commercial considerations. The State's task is to ensure a good infrastructure, while the company is responsible for operating the most efficient freight transport. Competitive aspects of rail freight traffic compared to the lorry are gradually weighing. This comes, for example: of the fact that the railway infrastructure is several places old and worn out after many years of missing promises. Ras and flaum have reinforced this. There are few bypasses if the railway has to be closed. The government has therefore given priority to increasing the permissions (e.g.: maintenance. In the case of freight transport services on the Raumaban, the freight company CargoNet made last December changes in the supply of goods. On this section of the track, the train encounters particularly fierce competition from the truck. The distance is relatively short, and much of the goods are not to be stopped at Åndalsnes, but requires reloading for forwarding to other places in the region. This means that rail traffic, which costs the transhipment of goods from the railway to the lorry, is less competitive here than on longer distances. I'm closely following the consequences of this. The road network does not have the same default as anywhere else. However, there are many car trains coming from the state and going south towards Oslo. As the representative Røbekk Nørve himself points out, there has been a large Conteinary port in Ålesund, where large quantities of goods are transported out and into the region. The ports are mainly municipal eight. Ålesund port is one of 32 main ports. These are linked to the core network at sea and are connected to the national road network. The municipalities decide what plans they plan for further development, while the owners themselves decide whether they want to use maritime transport, rail or road. The government's aim is to maximise the growth of the long freight transport by rail or by sea. Inherent National Transport Plans include several instruments, such as new legislation on ports and waters, improvements in fairways, better port access, and reduced fees and charges. This follows the government — now last, in the 2012 budget, coastal charges have been reduced. In addition, the government has downgraded a public selection of representatives from different actors to go through the Lostenes. In addition, there is a technological development in navigation equipment and competence on board vessels that update such a review. There are measures that will help to make maritime transport a good alternative, especially for coastal road transport. When it comes to roads, we can be glad that several important road projects will be completed. E39 Kvivsvegen and rv. 70 Øydegard–Bronneset this year we can especially rejoice over. The one road is open, the other one is running. The main road, which will provide a free route between Nordfjord and Sunnmøre, connects a larger bus and work area. Other major projects under construction in the county are Rv. 70 Raising beaches and two sub-projects at E39 Astad–Högset. When it comes to the beaches, it is a pleasure to have the opportunity to put in place a race-proof road between the Sunndalsøra and Raising. Astad–Högset is an example of how fast things can be put in place. So it is ten km with new road, planned and built in record time. Expected opening is spring 2013. It was set up for the start of the project E136 Tresfjordbrua and the Wågstrandtunnel in 2012. This is where Stortinget gets no cause. Insecurity attached to race is a particular problem in More and Romesdal. The beach I have named. There are also other projects that will mean a lot both for people and for business, Hjartåberga on the E39 and also the Wagstrandtunnel on the E136. And then we've started a series of concept evaluations that will be evaluated in the context of a new national transport plan. There are no less than three concepts, KVUs, that apply to E39 from the southern border to Valsøya on the North Sea. In parallel with that work, there is also a great deal of work to be done with the Free E39. So now we're well inside the first part of the planning period, and we're going up year after year also in More and Romesdal. We've asked the etats to plan for ambitious frameworks for the next NTP. We have met so far with one region to listen to their priorities – it is by chance the region in the middle – that we have had the opportunity to be first-hand up-to-date before the formal and written recording comes from the region in the middle – Møre and Romsdal, Süd-Trøndelag and Nord-Trøndelag. Let me end by saying that the relationship with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department is absolutely necessary to ensure coherence, just to ensure the connection between road, track and sea. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is also involved in the hearing we are now conducting. So the representative lists the special project. I think it is natural for her to ask the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast about them. But what I'm going to do is that the coordination that's needed goes with our respective departments, and that we also take with the Ministry of Food and Trade and what they care about, that's the very creation of value.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1740	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is very reassuring to hear that the Council of State confirms the close cooperation between the departments and the responsible authorities. It's very important. It is also good to hear that the Council of State will get the opinion from the Region in the middle of its table and see what it's going on before it's concluded there. Then I trust that the Council of State will take along the signals that I am trying to continue here. I really appreciate that. On the website of Stavanger Aftenblad it was some time ago that the government would have more maritime transport instead of road transport, and this time they feel serious, it said. I think it is good that we can finally get to take it seriously. I am aware that this has been a cross-political wish for very many years, and I am happy to see that it is now really going to roll and go, that something is going to happen. For the Right, good logistics is a very important part of providing a competitive environment for business. There has, as I said, been a long-standing cross-political agreement to achieve this in terms of getting more goods from road to sea and track. The question is how and how fast we get there. Will today's leading ports in the field of maritime transport get the necessary relief from the government to put in place a greener transport? I hope so, based on what the council here says, and I feel that the signals are there. Will they be helped to move freight from traffic-hazardous roads, which I have been on before? It is clear that the Minister for Transport here has a special responsibility to ensure that ports are connected to a good road and rail network. The cooperation that we're talking about is incredibly important, and we should be much better at that in many more areas. It is the government and the state that have the important keys to the instrument that must be in place to succeed. In addition to the need to reduce State charges, it is important that local policy is focused on port development and that responsible authorities take responsibility for building a good infrastructure up to ports, as I said. A ferry-free coastal route from Stavanger to Trondheim, along with the City Ship Tunnel, will solve major challenges. If we get these two important traffic years in place, we can really talk about political will to get more freight across from road to sea along the entire West Coast. Too much goods are transported today on trucks along narrow, worn-out roads, as I have said before. I see that now the time is up, so I get to take it back in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1755	I am very pleased with the signals that come, including from business, that we are literally on the right track when it comes to strengthening both our road network and our railway network and the measures that are being taken against shipping – the possibilities that lie here and that one today exploits to a certain degree, but that must be reinforced. We have a special forum in the direction of the Ministry of Transport and Logistics – a meeting place with different business operators. We had met there the previous week, and then was exactly the theme of how we could get more goods from the way across the track and the sea. There were very useful articles from the very people who used to do this in everyday life. The government has developed its own near-ship traffic strategy. The strategy itself, with the measures that are there, I also believe that I will contribute and have significance for several states, including for More and Romesdal. The representative, Røbekk Nørve, says that the government has its keys. Yeah, we're sitting with one key, we see it. It's this to follow up with the necessary plans, with the necessary means, so that we keep full pressure on what to do at any time. A lot of positive happens, but a lot of fun is done. National transport plan is a hub. Through the one we have today, with the projects that are there, and the dialogue that is now underway with the individual county council, we are told what should be prioritised in the future NTP. We're with one key, but then it's precisely this that there's a need for close cooperation between local and regional authorities and central authorities, as well as with business, both those who produce, and those who transport. It is important to take care of at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1766	This interpellation on transport challenges in More and Romesdal well illustrates both the challenges we face in the transport sector across the country, and the expectations that are now ahead of us when we consider the roll-out of the national transport plan and what is to be dealt with and adopted in the European Parliament in June next year. We have great challenges, because we are struggling with great delays in the transport sector. We are struggling with the fact that governments of different political colours over the years have not fulfilled the plans they have adopted. We are now in a situation where we actually meet an ambitious national transport plan, and good things cannot be repeated too often. It is worth noting that since we took over in 2005, the budgets of the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency have increased by a total of 50 pst. That the State Road Service traded for 14 billion dollars. kr more in 2011 than they did in 2006, that the Railway Agency’s budget has increased by 3.7 billion. kr, or 67 pst., from 2005, and that the Coastal Works budget has almost doubled, to 1.5 billion. kr, is good, but we see that there is still a great need. Of course, this has also benefited Mr More and Mr Romsdal. But then the question is, what are we going to do now? Well, we have a new national transport plan to respond to some of these challenges. What kind of challenges do we have, which also More and Romesdal have and are involved in? Well, it's about one third of CO2 emissions coming from the transport sector, it's about queues and pollution in the big cities, and it's about many of us killing on the roads. Even though last year we had the lowest numbers since 1953, it's too many. We have many roads and tracks in poor condition. A large proportion of goods are transported by road – a large proportion which could have been transported either by road or by sea. For us in the Workers' Party, it's a goal to get more goods from road to sea and track. The question is: what are the right measures? It's not like we haven't had this goal before, and as has previously been said from the pulpit, it's a cross-political goal to get goods from road to sea and track. We have to admit that there is no one who has been particularly successful so far. But what are the right measures? In this context, both the Raumaban and Ålesund port are important when we see it from the point of view of More and Romesdal. A logistics hub in Trøndelag, where we have to move the Railway Agency's freight terminal to a port, will also be important for Møre and Romesdal, because it will relieve the roads that Mure and Romesdal depend on to get the goods that still have to go on the road down. Then I think we should think through that it's actually affordable of CargoNet that they're continuing the offer of freight services on the Raumaban now that we know it's unprofitable. It is not just the Raumaban that is unprofitable, but freight transport in general by rail is currently unprofitable, and you are struggling. It is necessary to find the right means to ensure that freight transport is profitable again. One of the tools, of course, is that we get an infrastructure, which is better than today. But we also need to ensure that CargoNet continues the offer they have on the Rauma Line until we have done what is necessary in terms of infrastructure, and that more measures are likely to be put in place to make rail freight important. So there is no contradiction between Ålesund port and a new intermodal logistical node in Trøndelag, because the freight flows find their most natural way, and it would never be natural for the business community on Sunnmøre to send its goods up to Trøndelag to send it out again at a port. But what I think is important in this context, and as I think we should praise regional politicians in Møre and Romesdal, in the South-Trondelag and in the North-Trondelag for, is that in this region a regional transport plan has been drawn up, which sees transport throughout the country in context and which leads to common priorities. The common priorities have already been presented to the Minister for Transport in a meeting, and they will be continued by the county councils. When the representative calls for thinking and prioritisation across departments and across modes of transport, the regional transport plan largely respects this idea and regional politicians have done a good job. But More and Romesdal are associated with the rest of the country, so it's also important for More and Romesdal that the Dovreban is going to be good. It is important for Mr More and Mr Romsdal that we get the Alnabru terminal in order, because it will improve the competitive situation of freight transport in general. Everything done on the E6 south of Dombås, of course, is important for More and Romesdal. The most important thing in the NTP process for us in the Workers' Party is road safety and climate. In this context, goods from road to sea and track are essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1790	There is an important debate that the interpellant addresses. But maybe we could have 18 more interpellations, because I think the situation is pretty similar all over the country, when we look at the feedback you get about the challenges we're facing. To the previous speaker, it's always good to see what the numbers are. I hear that the red-green parts beat around with how much more increase there is, and how amazing this is. It is then possible to look at what has been proposed from the transport modes of 45 p.m. increase, which means. Well, when it comes to investment on the road side, that means about. 2.5 B.C.E. kr more, if we go for 45 pst. plus. It won't solve very many of the challenges that only Moor and Romsdal face, if they had gotten 2.5 billion. kr more to the infrastructure – even if they had received it every year – with the huge needs that are there, or if you had to go as far as the NHO says, with 65 pst. would have been 3.6 billion. kr. I still believe that the challenges are definitely in line in More and Romesdal, as in many other states. We heard that the decay only in More and Romesdal on the road network you have today is over 3 billion. kr. Then I say we have huge challenges. I myself have been in the Mora and Romesdal counties many times and have seen the challenges they have with holiday homes that should have been upgraded for millions of dollars – it is even more than 500 million. kr only in the county road-ferry facilities. In addition, we know that we have a road network that is far below what can be defined as acceptable – major challenges with tunnels, major challenges with ferries that do not go, or ferries that should have been much larger and with expanded capacity, or many other challenges facing More and Romsdal, along with many other states in the country. I think it is good to also focus on and see maritime transport in the context of road transport and rail transport. Unfortunately, I feel that it is that when you last sit and deal with national transport plans and other plans, it is ports and coasts that often lose out in the fight to get involved. I think you should also look at which ports to prioritise – Ålesund is definitely a large port, which is very important for Middle Norway along with other ports. Not least: Moor and Romsdal are a crazy export group. That means you have a business that depends on being able to compete with the rest of the world, maybe even more so than many other places in the country. This means that the infrastructure is crucial for success in competition with the rest of the world or not. Transport costs are often high. Only in my own home state, Telemark, are the transport costs in parts of the county 50 pst. higher than in Vestfold. When we know what More and Romsdal have to deal with, you might realize that the transport costs can be even higher in some places. So I think it's nice to hear that the Right is busy and will do a lot on both the road and the track. But the challenge is that you need money if you're really going to do something, and I think there's a little difference between the alternative budgets and the wishes of the interpellant today. I am very pleased that the interpellant says that much more money has to be invested in infrastructure. We in the Progress Party have proposed this in our alternative state budget all the time, but we are very happy that more people are coming after. I find it sad to record that when you don't want to spend money here, at least in More and Romesdal counties you can spend $1 million. kr to determine whether to have a lightning train to More and Romesdal or not. I think we should put that debate to death, and then instead you have to spend the money to rust up and build a road and not on high-speed plans and lightning plans that it's never going to be any of. I hope the interpellant will go home to his own and say that one must stop wasting the money and rather spend the money on important and correct projects – both in Møre and Romesdal and in the rest of the country. With the huge challenges we're facing, 800-900 billion. kr to the lightning train – the desire of the lightning keys – perhaps something you should put in the garbage box, or at least in the drawer. Then you should address the major challenges you face on the road network and the network you now have, and make sure that the Rauma Railway can continue to have freight transport, and not, as it is now, that you are about to go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1805	To the representative Hoksrud: I thought that the representative Hoksrud shared the right view and attitude of what I call bad fast trains, which goes in 250 km / h. It's gonna hold, it's gonna hold! I guess we're in the same booth, so I think we'll take it out of the drawer right away. I want to give honey to the interpellant. It's an important question that the interpellant travels. More and Romesdal are an important and central business area in Norway, with high value creation across the country. I agree with the representative Hoksrud that we could have such discussions for 18 states. But let me turn that around. It is important for the whole country to provide good infrastructure in More and Romesdal. That's where the policy is up to the exam, that's where the business is, and that's where the welfare is going to happen, just like in the other 17 states. It is also important that a regional transport plan has been drawn up for Central Norway, because it will form the basis for the priorities submitted by the region as regards its national transport plan, and it is absolutely necessary that the three counties included in the regional transport plan are agreed on the solutions. Ålesund port is central to export, in particular the maritime route. More and Romesdal are therefore the third largest export group in our country. I see that the initiative from More and Romesdal and the commitment in this county is not about Ålesund port being a substitute for anything, or rather something, but that you have to look at the port structure and the importance of the sea route operating in the area of More and Romesdal, and then starting from Ålesund – not that you don't like Trondheim being a hub. I want to remind you that the government is now in its seventh year. But it's going to go the wrong way. It is so that there is more going from sea to road than what goes from road to keel and to runway. All the good objectives, which are cross-political and multidisciplinary, are well and good, but the way is wrong – well documented, unfortunately. It is such that the government has overall responsibility for the infrastructure and to facilitate an appropriate and comprehensive infrastructure and logistics. When I use the term ‘government’, it is simply because I expect it to be the government and not the individual State Council, because within the transport sector it is divided into three government councils and with particular effect for the fourth: the Minister of Industry. The space orbit is important in More and Romesdal, but it is such that the customers fail, and I must say that I look with anticipation and gladdened up to the signals given by the Council of State, to bet more on the Raumaban, both for industry in general and for tourism in particular. From a generation’s point of view, notification must be allowed to say that it may not be very bad to inherit something so worn out. There is a great need not only for the Raumaban, but generally within the Norwegian railway. Even though there are positive trends, we are significantly lagging behind. It's positive, as I said, that the government is now taking action for the Rauma. There's also a general lag on the roads. It is the county municipality that is the largest road owner in Møre and Romesdal – to take as a starting point the interpellant's own county. The Committee has traveled from state to state, and in all counties we meet billions of nettles for maintenance of the county roads. I remind you that in our alternative budgets, we – and the Right – have actually increased the subsidy that we wanted to give to the county councils, just in order to be able to keep up with it. Then I also want to pay tribute to Møre and Romsdal and the other two counties because a regional transport plan has been drawn up specifying priorities. Well, there might be discussions, but there's a start on reuniting and looking at completely what are the main challenges in both road, rail, sea, aviation and electronic communications. In this way, an overall priority is given to the county councils. Long-term planning is important, with full funding and preferably with alternative forms of funding. It challenges the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1833	As a representative of More and Romesdal, I would like to thank the Council of State and thank you for the complementary and good answers, and for the comments she had on the inter-pellant Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve's input. Through the response of the Council of State, she shows an interest in and a knowledge of the challenges and activities that are taking place now and are planned for the future. I also think that the debate has been marked by the fact that there is a light, that the focus is on, the positiveness that happens in More and Romesdal, and on the value that export states, and the importance of the country's well-being. However, I would warn the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve against maximising the situation in crisis – in the light of what is going on and what is planned for the future. It's a revolution that's going on. But I belong to those who believe that funds must be in place to follow the plans that have been made. And then more people have been involved with this regional level. It's true, as Røbekk Nørve says, that the logistics node in Trondheim also applies to Møre and Romsdal. The meaning of the plan is to provide a good starting point for shipping. But I would like to remind the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve that the job that was done by Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal when the Ålesund port was too poorly maintained was led by the then county rapporteurs Olav Bratland and Frank Sve, who were then the head of the Committee on Transport and who were in charge of the work. The current regime has taken this into account, and the wording on the importance of Ålesund port will be changed in the regional transport plan that will be adopted in June. As far as racial protection is concerned, which is very important for More and Romesdal, there are still major challenges – we know that. But then there is a claim that can prove what this government has done for racial protection in the years it has worked: it equals 40 years with Bondevik II.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1848	The Moor and the Romsdal state is a beautiful state of powerful nature, and it's very rich in natural resources. The county has a strong and innovative business and many capable and competent inhabitants. This has contributed to the fact that More and Romsdal are one of the country's leading export counties. Since the red-green government took over in 2005, over 9 000 new jobs have been created in More and Romesdal and over 80 pst. of which in the private sector. The unemployment rate on 29 March, today, is 2.5 pst. It's going to go down in More and Rome's valley. When I'm visiting More and Romesdal, which is also my home country, I get an idea of what's going on in order for the county and business to develop further. The need for efficient and safe infrastructure is often mentioned. This is of course important, as the county needs to get export goods quickly to the markets. Through its opinions and questions, the interpellant has challenged the government's contribution to improving the transport situation in Møre and Romesdal. I think the Council of State has given a good answer. More and Romesdal have, among other things, has been made particularly effective in the allocation of racial protection funds. As the measurement of the sea was in, there has been a formidable effort in that area from the government. Several dangerous roads are now becoming safe roads in More and Romesdal. I'm very happy about that. The Council of State also referred to many concrete, important road projects that are now being implemented in More and Romesdal. The government has also launched several draft selection investigations, such as: is of great importance for ferries-free cruises of Halsafjorden, Romsdalsfjorden and Storfjorden. But as the demanding topographical state of More and Romsdal is, the need is greater than what has been accomplished so far. There's no doubt about it. I myself want to take advantage of the opportunity to contact Rv. 70, which is the tribal road from Kristiansund up to E6 on Oppdal. There's been a lot of positive happening in the last few years on RV. 70, with newly refurbished tunnel under Freifjorden, new road between Øydegard and the Bronneset, race protection running on the Uppölsstranda, etc. Nevertheless, there is a road section between Tingvoll and Meisingset that is in very poor condition. Yes, I've actually gone so far that I've called the route "the route of shame". This knows guy just has to be in the next NTP period. The Raumaban is the only railway in More and Romesdal. It goes between Dombås and Åndalsnes, through the valley of Rome. It is important both for the environment and for the reduction of traffic volumes on the motorway through the valley of Rome that the provision of goods at the Raumaban is maintained. I guess that's not exactly what the interpellant says, that CargoNet has reduced its offer, but they have changed their take-off times in an attempt to save costs. CargoNet is losing money on this route. According to CargoNet itself, it is because many people who must have transported their goods choose away the train because the train has too bad regularity. This has many reasons, as the Council of State has also highlighted in its articles. Unfortunately, not only the Raumaban is experiencing a decline in freight traffic. In the trade journal Transport Bjarne Wist, just from CargoNet, was recently asked what can be done to get freight traffic back on the desired track. There's Wist: ‘The authorities must ensure the maintenance and development of tracks and terminals as quickly as possible. Until this is done, the authorities must consider how to compensate railway companies financially for the problems of today’s infrastructure situation.’;» I can see the council there that this is exactly what the government is doing. Then we have hope that this will lead, so that both the freight traffic on the Rauma railway – and the railways, for the rest – will have a new spring. I could say a lot more about individual projects in More and Romesdal, but I leave it, because there are already several people who have been involved. So I just want to end by thanking the interpellant so much for a good initiative and the opportunity to put this situation in More and Romesdal on the agenda of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1881	The need for infrastructure and investment is great in Møre and Romesdal. There have been several speakers. But the need is probably not less in the country as a whole. Then I'm actually more concerned about the delay in maintenance, which is now well over 3 billion. kr in More and Romsdal. This means that when one is going to export their goods, it is across the hole, it is above all where one is exposed to traffic accidents, etc., simply because of the lack of maintenance. It is equally worrying when it comes to ferries and ferries that need a significant degree of renewal. Unfortunately, ferries that lie on the verge and drift have become too common sight. This is the everyday life of one of the country's leading export countries. The regional actor, as many have mentioned, has also created a regional transport plan that shows needs and priorities. But again, this stops because of the possibilities to finance the projects. When it comes to moving goods from car to keel, it has been a political goal that has been pursued at regular intervals for many, many years. The only thing we see here is a lack of investment and a lack of finances. The City Tunnel is a good example of this priority. A project has now been dedicated almost to the dead. 18 times he has been awarded, and the last edition has shown a slightly brighter picture than the 17 previous figures of what a fantastic investment this might be. Then we see other big projects that one has going on in More and Romesdal. Norway is a great and fantastic project that will also be involved in and promote the export industry, but then it turns out that through the measures needed to realise such a project, the project becomes so expensive that it stands out today as almost unmanageable, because it will take so much of the total resources that you have in the future, and it will bind up new investments for many, many years to come. Therefore, there is a need for a government that is willing to invest in new investments and not just claim that one has increased. If an increase from a low level to a slightly higher level does not make the overall noise. Then to Ålesund port. Should Ålesund port be able to maintain the intentions taken up by the interpellant, there is also a great need to remove the grounds, so that the ships to carry out the transport can get into the port in such a way that one is sure that one does not harm either themselves or on others. From other examples of investments in Møre and Romsdal that have been completed, I can refer to the Eiksund link. In many ways, the Eyksund link shows a great need for this type of continental connection. When this was designed, calculate with an increase of 60 pst. In annual traffic — and it was getting tough, many thought. Today, when we sit with the fasitizer, he shows that the increase was 150 pst. So this only shows that there is a willingness to invest, there is a great need, and it helps to raise competitiveness and reduce costs for business. It is then important to give proper priority and priority. When the lightning train project is launched in a state like More and Romsdal, and one is going to try to move the line from the Østerdalen to the Gudbrand valley to fit the Moors and the Romsdal, and one is willing to spend millions on such an imagination project, it's not a priority. It is simply to highlight a project that, in my opinion, is a derailment in the debate. It's a debate that just takes place because one doesn't want to focus on all the lacks that exist on existing plants – a new fantasy product simply lifts up to take away the right focus. There should be a focus on upgrading existing roads, initial investment in infrastructure and looking at what is needed to facilitate the everyday lives of those who are to maintain the welfare state. It needs to be, and it won't be done today with the government we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1901	The interpellant is occupied by infrastructure in the home state of Møre and Romesdal, and there she has good support. We see that from the commitment of the moor bench here today. However, pointing out that the Council of State must lift the transport situation from a future transport crisis is almost incomprehensible. It is tempting to wonder whether that concern rests with Bondevik when he collided with the Right. This justifies the interpellant by pointing out that there is poor infrastructure in and out of More and Romesdal. However, since Stoltenberg took over in 2005, many important promises have been made in those areas. In the north, you have upgraded the E39, which was more like a cultural memory, and raised it to a very good and high standard. This helps to increase road safety and not least reduce traffic time. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa took part in opening this way. In the south, new roads are being built, and in the autumn, the Kviv road will be ready. It does not least contribute to larger and better housing and labour markets, and I believe that the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa must put on the finnace and go up and join in cutting a new cord. In the east, the plans are ready for the E136 which is our export route with large projects like Tresfjord Bridge and the Wagstrand Tunnel. This is also important for road safety, travel time and for the living and working regions of the area. It will facilitate the transport of cars to Raumabanen and the better traffic that must go through Lesja and down Gudbrandsdalen. In the west, of course, port and maritime investment is also important, but with all due respect – it is not that we need to tighten up under Trondheim's challenges and opportunities to fight for our own ports. Ålesund port is important, and we have to build under it. But there are no contradictions between it and at the same time building up important infrastructure elsewhere. So to our proposals on bets on ports and fairways. After we got into government, I remember the interpellant's party, Right, said it was fantasy money we talked about. There was no imagination, it became reality. Yes, because we have actually increased the investment effort in ports and fairways by 77 pst. since 2005. We have also greatly reduced the coastal charge, and we aim to eliminate it completely during this period. Based on these points that I have now pointed out, we see that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties are busy with infrastructure. And, yes, we have and must have an offensive approach to getting more goods across from road to sea. This is important in order to save roads for heavy transport, providing enormous environmental benefits and contributing to the competitive advantage of the industry of using the sea route. Then we have to raise the topic of logistics more, which was also said by the interpellant, and which I fully agree with, and then it's important to take a holistic view of these challenges. It's positive, and it's an important sign that we're getting so much commitment on this topic now, both in terms of the national transport plan and the process of it, but also in terms of the party programme process in which we in the Workers' Party are well inside. A coastal party on which the Workers' Party is involved in finding good solutions for all industries that can use the sea route. That is why we have good dialogue with all actors to achieve this. We need to ensure that business experiences using the sea route as predictable, efficient and competitive, and we need to look at what the public is going to do, and what the industries themselves are going to take responsibility for. It's an important discussion. It is important that county representatives raise this issue in their debate now in the future. We need to be able to see contexts and find good, comprehensive solutions, because it helps little if the government cuts taxes on its part, if the municipalities cancel the fees in their municipalities. Here, all actors must stand together and build solutions for the future. In fact, I have great faith that we can do that. When I hear the post of the representative Hoksrud from the Advance Party, it makes me wonder if there has been a bubbly for lunch in the canteen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1920	The President would point out that that conclusion has to be counted as an unparliamentary expression. The next speaker is Mette Hanekamhaug, so we get a more or less full bench from More and Romesdal up on the pulpit in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1925	Yes, President, it is important to show that we in More and Romesdal are very concerned about this issue. I really wasn't going to take the floor, but the representative Else-May Botten was having some important moments in this debate that might need to be highlighted a little bit extra. The representative spoke so nicely about everything that's been done, that you traveled around and the clip is stringing in those years. Yeah, well, that's good with nice words, good Christmas and good New Year's speeches and cutting strings for new road projects. But what we in the Progress Party are concerned about is how the situation actually affects us who live there, and how it looks to those who are there. We in the Progress Party are busy getting people to live in More and Romesdal. When it comes to getting young people to stay, to stay, to take education, to work and to get people like me, who have moved out, to move back home, it's essential to have a good infrastructure. It doesn't help how many lines the government parties and government councils cut, when you see the reality and see how it affects young people who live in or want to live in the county. The truth is that those who are young today and are entering the labour market are concerned with mobility and flexibility. We're busy getting around from A to B, we're busy being able to live somewhere and commute to work. This does not help with the infrastructure as it is today. It doesn't help when we hear that more and more young children's parents are scared to send their children to school, when they see that we have so many racially dangerous school paths in our county. It doesn't help to have the bus transport of students on long distances in the districts when we have several main lanes that are so narrow that we don't even have the middle lane on these roads. And it doesn't help to have the ferry network we have, where we can't drag, for example. between Molde and the West or go to a party in the evening, because you don't have ferries that go frequently enough, or sometimes don't go at all, so you don't get home. There are challenges for the Progress Party. There are challenges for the inhabitants of More and Romesdal. I learned in math class that 0 x 3 or 0 x 4 is still 0 – and then we get to the road investments in More and Romesdal and the string clippings that actually happen. That is why this is important for us in the Progress Party. We are pleased that the interpellant is just raising the importance of a good infrastructure, both for the export industry in More and Romesdal, and to ensure that young people are in the state or come back to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1938	First of all, I must be allowed to thank for a wonderful debate and a great commitment. It's incredibly polite. I have to admit that I was a little skeptical in the beginning – I thought most people had had some Easter views and were on their way home. But this was really fun! I want to point out a few claims that have come here. The representative Bratli of the Workers' Party pointed out that the regional transport plan respects regional thinking and cooperation in a good way. That's exactly what I said in my introduction, and that led to me taking the initiative for this interpellation debate, that there was a regional plan, which was led in the pen by Turkish politicians, but there was nothing about Ålesund port, there was nothing about More and Romsdal. It was very regrettable, and that made it alarmed. I fully agree that we need to be better able to cooperate across the counties – there is no doubt about that. The representative Hoksrud and also the representative Grimstad talked about lightning trains, but I said absolutely nothing about lightning trains – I had no intention of saying that either. Now the representative Ingerd Schou from the Right was inside it and somehow rejected the whole thing. What I am concerned about, and I would like to repeat that – and I hope the Council of State will listen well – is that we must never cut off the opportunities we can have in the future to continue to have the railways to More and Romesdal. That's who I'm afraid of. Therefore, a trachea still has to pass through the Gudbrand valley. It's important. So to the representative Else-May Botten, who talked a lot about string cutting, and that's fun. But on the day it comes to string cutting, you've been on for many years. If someone knows that, now we politicians are fighting to get our roads in place. In the case of the Kvivsvegen, I cannot help but say that here we have every reason to give a great reward to a former representative of the big business from the Right, namely, Petter Løvik. He fought enormously for the Kviv road, and we are very proud that it is now in place. I read in the magazine «Fraktemann» that in Norway it overturns 200–250 car trains per year. The faster we get more of today's heavy transport from road to sea and rail, the safer and more environmentally friendly the total transport becomes, to the delight of both industry and people most. Thank you for a wonderful debate. Then I look at the council again and hope and believe that she has brought the signals, which are so important to the region of More and Romesdal, and not just to the Moor and Romesdal, but to the whole country, as it was said here. The value creation is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1953	I would like to thank you for a refreshing debate, for a debate in which I appreciate that local representatives here have the opportunity to fill in with both local knowledge and local experience. It's not every day that we have the way we have now, how important it is with racial protection, maintenance and renewal, and how important it is to keep going in the big projects as well, because there's a lot of connection here. It's a field we shouldn't underestimate, and it's planning, the importance of faster planning. Let me tell you that over Easter, results will be presented from a project that has been under the control of the State Road Administration, where they themselves look at their own planning procedures, with a view to speeding up planning, and there is also a working group in the Department that will give clear advice on what it means to cut short in relation to many of today's processes, which are far too far-reaching. Just More and Romsdal have an example of how things can be done, from idea to realization in less than three years, that is, Astad–Knutset. Then I thought that there was no reason to talk about cable cutting and cutting. It's not the lace cutting itself that matters, but the fact that it's allowed to celebrate when you get a new and larger project in place. I have the Kvivsvegen in my calendar for the autumn, I like it. Think of what it means for a region with a ferry-free highway between Nordfjord and Sunnmøre, and what it means for a larger bus and work region! Then I also look forward to facilitating the treatment of Tresfjordbrua now in the spring session. It will mean a tremendous improvement for both the people and the business community in that area, reduced distances and reduced cost burdens. So that's the point, that we have to have both the big planes for the eye and make sure that we make progress in them, and then we have to build rocks on rocks. So let's do that. Still new projects are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1964	The debate on substance is closed. So 12 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1978	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e1989	I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation, and in particular No Marte Thorkildsen for the efforts she has made as the case rapporteur until she was appointed as the Council of State for the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion just a week ago. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the new tasks of the Council of State. So I'll say a little bit about the distribution message process. The government set up a sample in April 2008 to look at the driving forces behind the development of income disparities. The background was the need for more basic knowledge of the evolution of economic differences over time, the driving forces that affect development, and the measures that can counteract increasing differences. The committee was asked to make proposals for action and would pay particular attention to measures that could help prevent economic differences from increasing over time. The Distribution Committee presented its report in May 2009. The Committee concluded that the Nordic model of strong, tax-funded welfare schemes, a level playing field and good public education and health services has many important, gender-creating features. Another main message from the report was that labour relations are the main single factor preventing low incomes for individuals and that early prevention is the most effective measure to ensure such links with the labour market for the most part. The committee thought prevention should start in kindergarten. Investment in children and kindergartens pays off by children taking more education and taking more part in the labour market when they grow up. The red-green government has succeeded in reducing the differences. While income disparities increased from the mid-1980s to the mid-2000s, they have been reduced since 2006. This is a break in the international trend, where differences continue to increase. Norway is one of the countries in the world with at least differences in living conditions. Low income is also less inherited than in most other countries. Well-developed welfare schemes contribute to reducing differences. Fair distribution is a support bar in the Norwegian model and helps to strengthen trust between people and the emergence of Community solutions. With the 2006 Tax Reform, we have put in place a more redistributive tax system that is involved in respecting the principle of taxation according to capacity. The majority of gross domestic product has maintained the overall tax burden at the level of 2004 but has taken significant steps to improve the distribution of the tax liability. Although differences have been reduced in recent years, the share of low income has remained stable. However, their composition with low income has changed. There have been fewer older people with low incomes, but an increase in families with children, especially migrant families. In these cases, it is often a matter of one - parent families. It underlines the importance of succeeding in integration and equality, as well as a good and reasonable childcare provision, so that both parents can work and earn income. The main strategy for the future will then continue to pursue active policies to ensure high employment and low unemployment. Work is the most important insurance against low income for the individual. High labour participation is also a prerequisite for the continuation of the welfare system. We've done a great deal of it. Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. There are 300,000 new jobs created under the current government. Safe economic governance and decent and well-regulated work are essential in this context. The action plan against poverty contains a number of measures to assist groups that fall outside. The qualification programme is the most important of the actions of the action plan. Since the start-up, a large number of long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and others far from the labour market have been helped to get into work through the scheme. Red-green parties pay particular attention to children and young people's living conditions through measures to strengthen their family's occupational ties, work for equal pay – as many poor children are the children of single-parents, most often women – work for integration, as children with a migrant background are over-represented in the low-income group, and emphasising children's rights and concern for children's growth in guidance material for new social services laws. The government in the Communication warns that it will investigate how activity support for children and young people in families affected by poverty can be ensured. This kind of activity support may be demanding, but we're meeting the investigation. With that, I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2020	A few years ago, the Progress Party launched the slogan ‘The future is being created — it is not adopted’. It is truly a brilliant slogan – to boast a bit of the party – that stands out better and better in a country that, in very many contexts, believes that political decisions will bring growth and prosperity. All parties are more or less guilty of such thinking. Red-green socialists have a fundamental mistrust or scepticism for everyone who succeeds. They say anyway that they want to facilitate people's success. But should a person actually make success, create jobs and earn a lot of money, the scepticism and envy go hand in hand. The goal of equality through capitalism is a contradiction. Market forces give development and prosperity, but never equality. Equality is a political impossibility and unnatural. However, many countries have tried. Everyone has failed. Plan economy provides stagnation, poverty and corruption — which in turn means inequality. While capitalism and the market economy provide incentives for growth, so that society as a whole becomes richer, plan economy and socialism keep creative and neat down and give incentives to slip away. To the extent that socialism means equality, it's equal distribution of poverty we're talking about. The sociologist has never understood that you do not help the weak by cutting off the heads of the strong – or in another way: you do not help the poor by skinning the rich. The Advance Party wants to achieve the greatest possible success. We like it when people make money. We think it is brilliant that money made honestly through the market is reused in the market. The market economy has brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, precisely because the market economy has a trickle-down effect. When it rains on the priest, it drips on the bell. It doesn't matter that the rich get richer, as long as the poor get richer. And such a development is only possible through the market economy. In the course of this communication, the Progress Party asked the Ministry of Finance about the differences in today’s Norway and whether they have become larger or smaller under today’s government. The answer is that the differences are not significantly different today than they were under the previous governments. The truth is that all groups in paid work have a much higher standard of living, while the differences between the different groups are about the same. Under the red-green government, however, the number of people living outside the regular working life has increased sharply. In other words, far more people are receiving money for their Nav lifetime today than ever before. It is precisely these people who lag behind in today's society. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly stressed that labour is the best resource society has. I agree with him. At the same time, if work is started through emerging labour market needs, work is the best form of poverty reduction. In a look-up related to the possible introduction of property taxes, LO Leader Roar Flåthen said last year harvested the following until Today's Business: «I am cursed when I see those villas in the Holmenkol lock [[...]] Sorry about the language, President. This is where the LO leader gets the cats out of the bag. Firstly, one might wonder how the LO leader has gained access to the villas he is so angry to exist, but far more seriously, the leader of Norway’s largest workers’ association shows so much contempt for the consequences of the market economy. I have so much understanding that the LO leader is trying to make himself a man of the people, but the truth is that the market economy has made Flåthen itself a capitalist, but that he chooses to use his million-dollar salary on things other than housing in the Holmenkol lock. You can and should, of course, support people who are unable to support themselves. However, such appropriations will never lead to a permanent reduction in poverty. No society has ever managed to redistribute itself out of poverty. Poverty is not combated through economic transfers but through participation in the labour market. In Norway, participation in the labour market in almost all contexts requires the ability to speak Norwegian. Furthermore, more and more professions require basic skills, whether in professional or academic fields. Changing governments have allowed for increasing immigration in recent years. This has taken place in particular through family reunification, which is often family establishment through arranged marriages. In many contexts, this is a person with little or no education, where illiteracy is also widespread. Of course, it is unlikely that adults who can neither read nor write will be able to become a working resource in a knowledge-based society like ours. So this is a wild policy. But I'll leave it. The aim of the Progress Party is to get more people to participate in society, and we believe that such participation must take place at all levels. To succeed in the labour market in Norway, there is a need to adapt to the needs of the labour market. This requires a significant degree of self-sufficiency. Our main task as politicians is not the redistribution of goods from one person to another or from one group to another. Our main task is to make sure that everyone is given the opportunity to learn and that everyone is given the opportunity to use their talent. Education is therefore clearly an area which should be financed by the Community. A minimum common multiple school is not a help either for the weakest or the nicest students. If we are to succeed in the competitive society of the future, we must facilitate that the most successful are also facing challenges in school. We should applaud that some are more intelligent than others, that some are more creative than others, and that some show more interest in learning than others. Just as we cultivate our sports heroes, we should also cultivate those who have skills in practical and academic subjects, because while our sports stars give us an experience and national pride, our school skills have the opportunity to give us future export incomes and jobs. In other words, while the sports hero gives us immediate satisfaction, the contractor gives us lasting well-being. The Progress Party records that the red-greens are trying to transform the Nordic model into a social-democratic project – and perhaps primarily as a socialist project. It's historyless. Norwegian history is not influenced by socialism, nor by social democracy. Norwegian history is contrasting. You find Pietism, hard work, consistency, individualism, tradition, conflict, perseverance. But you also find adventure desire, to look at the Northmen who went to America: even there they stayed in the same place, so much so that they were called homesteads. In recent years, the Norwegian People's Party has probably had a little of self-righteousness, which is ironically confirmed in the comments of the government parties in this matter. The above values are, in any case, a part of our cultural heritage, and it is precisely the cultural heritage that forms the basis of today's social form. Call it a Nordic model, but especially a lot of socialism does not contain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2063	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde himself apologized for his use of language at a point related to a quotation, and I think he did the right thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2066	There were high expectations for the distribution message. The result must be a great disappointment. Over a number of years, many of Storting’s – and public – debates have been referred to the distribution message, as government strategies would be seen there. I think we all remember Kristin Halvorsen, who, during the election campaign in 2005, stated that poverty could be eliminated. She said, ‘This is not difficult, this is about political will.’ Despite its vocabulary, this document will be a monument to broken promises, lack of strategy and measures to combat poverty. After nearly seven years of red-green government, we have far more children living in poverty, we have more homeless, waiting time and queues for drug treatment have increased, and the school is unable to compensate for social differences. These four areas are central to measuring whether we succeed in combating poverty. The last thing, that the school doesn't succeed in compensating for social differences, is maybe the most serious thing, because if the school doesn't succeed, and the results will reproduce in the decades to come. The exception – and fortunately there is an exception – is Oslo. In Oslo, where the Right School Policy is put to work, according to one of the government's reports, it has been shown that there is a greater success in compensating for social differences between students. We should learn a little bit from those who succeed. This big message should be about how to lift those who have fallen outside, or those who are about to fall outside. But when you read through the setting, you almost get the impression that wealth taxes are what are meant to combat poverty. I accidentally took a small search and found out that property taxes have been treated 22 times in the setting. Taxes on wealth can help to combat Norwegian ownership and jobs, but it does not help to combat poverty. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus among Norwegian parties that combating poverty is important. I find it disappointing that during the process of this election, the government parties have shown no willingness to try to sew all parties together on strategies and measures to combat poverty. On the other hand, I am pleased that the four non-socialist parties in many areas have signed up in this setting. What we do, among other things, agreed, the value of the Nordic model – or the Norwegian model, which we also choose to call it. It's a model that neither belongs to the left side nor to the right, but reflects some of the central values on which the Nordic communities are based. I think it's worth stressing that this is not a political model, but that it's central values that have proven to be sustainable and durable both in rising times and in downtime. But this model isn't created once and for all. It has to be renewed. That's what we helped to renew in the 1980s. We have helped to renew it through the last Right-Registration Centre, both by facilitating value creation and by developing good welfare arrangements. It is important to stress that the Nordic – or Norwegian – model is about the security to be provided by good welfare schemes, but it is also about freedom and diversity, about volunteering, about risk-taking, and about market economy and flexible working and business life. I would also like to stress that the value of small income differences is important to the Right. We believe that it is part of the Norwegian or Nordic model, and that relatively small social differences are also some of the glued in our society – where the director's daughter goes to the same school as the worker's son, and how relatively small income differences and flat structures in the working life contribute to less hierarchy and a more efficient working life. The right hand side is almost monomantly occupied by the taskbar. And why are we? Well, because work is the way to well-being, both for individuals and for us as a society. Of course, those who are unable to work must be able to live a decent life and have economic security, but a clearer approach is needed to how to reduce Nav and how to speed up and improve the follow-up of those who come to Nav. Yesterday many of us were introduced for the first time, but I understand that it is a concept that has lived in some youth environments over time, introduced to the concept of ‘nave’, which is supposed to be about taking a year off and living on social security. We're going to take that seriously. If such attitudes are spreading among our young people, we are on a completely wrong course. Right is concerned that we have to break some of those trends, and then it's primarily about creating a better school, where we're raising the kids that's about to fall outside. We know that those kids who don't learn to read, write and calculate at primary school, are more likely to fall out when they get to high school, and that too many of them find the way to dissatisfaction when they're out of work. I referred initially to the fact that in Oslo it is clear that compensation for the social differences is greater. And what have you done? Well, it's about three important points. It is about students getting more resources – channelling more financial resources to schools where there are many students who are poor in Norwegian. It's about betting on skilled teachers, so that in schools where there are many students with poor Norwegian skills, extra pay is paid to the good teachers. Good mentoring is introduced, so it becomes attractive to work at those schools, and there are several teaching hours. Yes, some of these students get an extra year of teaching, so that they can be raised to a higher level. The right is concerned that we should bet on better teachers. We know — and it is documented through international research — that in a few years good teachers can compensate for the social differences between students. This we have to give higher priority. So the Right is also concerned that those who come to Nav will get faster and better follow-up. This is why we have talked over time about the importance of imposing an activity obligation on social welfare recipients. We know that it works. When you get a job, when you're allowed to work, you lower the barrier again to get all the way into work. We want an enhanced and expanded follow-up course for young disabled people, and we are concerned that people who are re-entering will be better trained in reading and writing skills. We know that almost half of those involved in rehabilitation measures lack basic literacy skills, and without basic reading and writing skills, they also fall out of work more quickly. And then we're concerned that we're going to have a voice and an inclusive working life. There we believe that the state and the public can go more ahead. There are many private companies that have shown themselves to be pioneers. It should be valued. In particular, Telenor has special programmes to help people with disabilities. We believe that the state and the public should go ahead more. In the end, I just want to stress the importance of volunteering and the social entrepreneurs. We know that non-governmental organisations are doing an enormously important task. Social entrepreneurs do the same with regard to including children from socially weak families in voluntary activities. The fact that everyone can participate in common arenas is important in the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2107	The distribution message is one of the most important messages handled by this bulk. Small differences and low poverty are one of the central characteristics of Norwegian society, and are central to the characteristics that have repeatedly led the UN to identify Norway as the world’s best country to live in. I am very pleased that an overall increase in this Communication declares that ‘the objective is to reduce economic disparities and to have a society without poverty’. Although there is a significant gap between objectives and instruments for part of the batches that support this objective, this shows that in Norway it is not possible to win choices if there are no small differences. The Nordic model has given citizens security and freedom to a completely different degree from those based on market-liberalist solutions. Fair distribution is not about preventing people from becoming rich. It is about maintaining a society of high trust between people, so that we can ensure the emergence of Community solutions, while at the same time giving us better conditions to succeed in the transformation of the world of work. This, in turn, provides the basis for a more productive working life. Universal public services contribute to the broad disintegration of the fission layer. Extensive use of needs testing, high margins and privatisation, on the other hand, leads to less interest in the contribution of the broad middle class. Increasing the differences through tax havens to those who already have the most, and cutting into universal well-being goods will therefore be an attack on the entire Nordic model. Research shows that the societies with the least income differences — the Nordic countries and Japan — are doing the best. Those with the greatest differences – e.g. The United States and the United Kingdom — doing the worst. Differences in Norway are small compared with other countries. This applies both when we look at income and wealth, and when we include other factors affecting living conditions, such as education, health, housing and other welfare goods. At the same time, differences have increased sharply in Norway over the past two decades. Developments speeded up in the 1980s. From 2005, when the red-green government joined, the differences have been reduced again. The introduction of taxes on dividends on shares has made it difficult to avoid progressive taxation of income by redefining wages and salaries as capital income. Conversion of the property tax has led to a much greater calculation of this tax based on real wealth, while increased deductions have meant tax relief for the small savers. In total, the richest in Norway now pay far more taxes than they did in 2005. Together with high employment growth and measures such as increased minimum social benefits, increased housing support and the introduction of qualification support, this has helped to reduce disparities since 2005, even though wage differences in isolation have not decreased. Developments since 2005 are a break with a trend towards increasing differences since the 1980s. This is a development we do not see in countries like Sweden, Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom, where differences are stable or increasing. While differences have been reduced in recent years, the share of low income has remained quite stable. I am concerned that there is a growing proportion of children in Norway who belong to families with persistent low incomes. This is particularly true of children in child-rich families with migrant backgrounds and children of lone parents, often single mothers. Children have rights that we as a society have obligations to take seriously, and they are particularly hard hit when their parents are having trouble. Poor children find it particularly stressful that they often end up outside social communities. This can affect them negatively throughout their lives. To prevent this, we need measures that can help children in the short and long term. It is a combination of universal common good, income protection and targeted measures, such as well-functioning child protection and measures to enable parents to take part in professional life. The outreach action New opportunity is one of several examples of offers that can help the families concerned to improve their economic and social situation. Other important measures include free core hours in kindergartens, activity cards and child care. However, this is not enough, and targeted action is therefore also needed. The government has increased the lowest social security to 2 G and has ensured that they follow wage developments in society. The housing aid has been extended to several groups and the amount of the benefits has been increased. The qualification programme to help people who are far away from work, into work and activity is in place. These are some of the measures that, together with a strong increase in employment, have raised many out of poverty. In the distribution communication, the government has presented to the Stortinget measures to improve the distribution and combating poverty. This is a good basis for continuing to reduce economic differences in Norway and for intensifying efforts to tackle poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2137	The distribution of income is determined by a complex interaction between a number of structural and economic conditions. The distribution committee described how wage formation, other labour conditions, housing and credit markets, the tax system and transfers, demographic development, economic development and international conditions affect the distribution. The tradition and policy of the Centre Party is based on active democratic governance of capitalism within the nation state. Capitalism must be corrected and governed to ensure broad, long-term societal objectives, such as: a level playing field between people and real competition in business. In this debate on the distribution message, I choose to spend my short time on the labour market – the formation of wages and income in society. The labour market is the first and most important issue for the distribution of economic values among people. If this is not organised in such a way as to ensure a level playing field between people, it will not be possible to ensure this through increased taxes or better welfare schemes. The core of what is called the Norwegian model is described by the central party people as jealous economic, social and cultural relations between people in different parts of the country. The Norwegian model belongs to the Red and Green Pole in Norwegian politics. This agility that many people hold, but which is currently subject to severe deterioration in practical life, is the result of a long historical-political debate with different party political views on the allocation of private property rights, the content of private property rights, the distribution of value creation between employees and employers, framework conditions and power relationships between commodity producers — for example: fishermen, farmers, forest users – versus industry and trade. Smoothness and using the whole country — decentralisation — are important for the green pole of the red-green government. For the Center Party, for example, it's... important to ensure and further develop country-wide tariff agreements in the trade movement. It is important to govern the conditions of power in society so that progress in technology and labour productivity also benefits employees and maritime operators as increased real income. Small wage differences and access to skilled labour encourage companies to innovation and investment in technology. Local and national labour shortages are crucial for the Norwegian model. As a result of the EEA Agreement, we have free movement of labour. It develops an increasingly strong attitude that undermines the Norwegian model, by the fact that more and more jobs or employment industries are not considered good enough for the Nordics. Many necessary jobs are therefore weakened in social status and respect as a result of labour immigration, which in the next round will justify even more labour force immigration. As red-green political leaders, we are therefore facing a choice – either to upgrade these jobs economically, socially and culturally, or to go to poorer countries and demand even more cheap labour for use in Norway. The EEA Agreement links our labour market to the European labour market, with completely different power relationships between the buyer and the seller. This means that a Norwegian employer can choose between Norwegian and non-resident employees and hire the best and cheapest. The trade union movement is increasingly on guard as it experiences the increased negative consequences. The opposition to the EU agency directive is a glistening example. It is now supported by people who have previously expressed a very positive opinion on the EEA Agreement. Within the EEA Agreement, the trade union movement is working hard to protect its members from being hit by the lower wage levels in other EU countries, so that it is not going to pass on to Norwegian. Our government is building up legislation and control bureaucracy to reduce social dumping. Nevertheless, it is not to be overlooked that free flow of labour will mean increasing power for those who want – or accept – increased income differences among people. This is the lot of Right Tradition and the trademark. Think of a dam between two water masses with different surface levels. If there's ever such a small loophole, the differences will disappear. The level of cost of a country is more slowly balanced, resulting in lower real incomes for disadvantaged groups in the labour market. This development is taking place throughout the country, but perhaps more clearly in the cities. In Oslo, it is easy to see the effect that one does not need to offer workers a Norwegian standard of living to get someone to do the necessary tasks. Obviously, it's enough to offer people something better than what you can get where you come from, because poverty is a growing problem. Oslo is clearly not able to obtain domestic service providers. It is also becoming more and more company-owned farming, rather than the Norwegian model – family-owned. In this agriculture, the same developments have come very far and are undermining the practice of vocational training and recruitment from interested and skilled Norwegian youth. Free movement of labour between countries with very different economic situations and conditions of power on the labour market is the greatest threat to the Norwegian tradition of affluent relations. Therefore, this theme should be among the most important issues that the government is discussing carefully in the documents sent to the Stortinget in the light of the NOU, outside and within Norway’s agreements with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2165	I think it was Odvar Nordli who at the end of the 1970s could inform the Norwegian people that there was no longer any poverty in Norway. Now there may be different definitions that make you look at it in a slightly different way, but I actually dare to argue that it was the central government that raised the issue of poverty really once again in Norway, as it ran from 1997. It was also Bondevik II, the Right and Center Government, which put forward a proper plan to reduce poverty. It is clear that you are prepared for cutting when you choose to focus on something that cannot be removed with a pen stroke. It is not always just a matter of political will – to continue where the representative Sanner began, in relation to one of the quite easy ways of dealing with this rather difficult issue of government parties. I would like to take this opportunity to point out what we, as politicians, might need to focus on – pointing a little ahead – combating child poverty. The majority say very nicely about how to combat it, but there are no concrete measures. It's no surprise to anyone either, I think, that the Christian People's Party has tried to involve the government parties in some concrete measures to combat child poverty. Directly targeted measures will lead to a better standard of living for those most at risk: increased one-off benefits; cheaper childcare facilities for poor families; keeping cash support and child benefit out of the scope of social assistance measurement — highly targeted measures that could mean a difference. Government parties have not wanted to be part of that. Then, of course, there will be more words and little action, but we take note of that. I am, of course, concerned with what the government and the whole Big City have said, that the working line is extremely important for combating poverty. But it's not enough. There are also groups that do not come under this line of work, which need a safety net that gives you a decent standard of living. In order to mention some measures that I and the Christian People's Party believe are necessary in order to achieve the professional objectives that we really are cross-politically behind, I would like to point out the following, which we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, are trying to follow up in our budgets: there is a need to establish several action areas for people with reduced working capacity: there is a need to exempt self-employment for health services and medicines for minimum pensioners, disabled and chronically ill. Provision is made for payment for dental treatment for long-term social beneficiaries and participants in qualification programmes. There is a need to standardise increased rates of social assistance, and there is a need to improve drug prevention and drug treatment. We want to strengthen measures for children and young people in urban communities, and we want to increase the lending framework in the House Bank, so that the social housing structure of the House Bank can be intensified. I'm sure the red-greens have also noticed that in our tax profile we want to give tax relief to those who earn the least, while in the budget for the current year we added a boost to those who earn the most. They're good at it, and it's an excellent signal to show that we want a society where the differences shouldn't be too big. It is important for me to say in this context: it is not a point to fight wealth, above all, and believe that it combats poverty. The important thing is to combat poverty. Then we must allow some to serve well, but also contribute to the community. Sometimes I get that feeling from the red-green government and their representatives that it's a little reverse, that the most important thing is to fight wealth, and then you don't have the same commitment that you had – I would say – to make sure that it gets less poor. But the red-greens can know that if they want to make concrete proposals, maybe in revised ones, we are more than willing to enter into new conversations to get to something in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2180	Fortunately, it is an almost unanimous committee that points out that there is a close link between combating poverty and working for small differences, pointing out that ensuring the highest possible level of decent pay is a fundamental prerequisite both for small differences and for combating poverty, that a strong welfare state ensures access for all citizens to education, good health services and decent elderly care, and that there is a good safety net for those who cannot work – that all this will reduce the risk of citizens experiencing poverty. That's what we like to call the Nordic model, a model that the government and the left-hand side of the last year have tried to acquire some kind of monopoly on belonging to. The truth is that the model does not belong to either the right side or the left side, but reflects some common values, which the representative Sanner was also in – something we stand together about, regardless of the government, based on universal welfare schemes introduced by different government compositions up through time. Of course, that doesn't mean that we like to think about everything. We're different parties with different starting points. The liberal ideology of the left is based on the individual human being. Everyone is going to have the freedom to use their abilities to the best of their own and of society, but equally of course it is that those who really need the help of society to live a worthy life will get it. Free societies have good Community institutions and a social safety network for all. Poverty affects individuals — often unexpectedly and randomly — and for complex reasons. The left wants a State that fights social injustice but is pragmatic in terms of the means used. The most important is based on the needs of the individual, not on the defence of the rules. We in the left call it putting people first. It must, of course, be a paradox to a government that promised to end poverty, that after six years of government, it has become more poor children in Norway. According to the SSB, 74 000 children under 18 now live in families with persistently low incomes. There are 6,500 more than when this government took over power in 2005. In the vote, the government parties say that the government, through the distribution notice, has submitted to the Stortinget measures to improve the distribution and combating poverty. That's not true. There is no renewed commitment to poverty in the distribution message, as the Left sees it, but there is a list of what the government has done in the last six years, and which has proved to have led to more poor children and families with children – not fewer. There is also no renewed commitment from the government parties. The truth is that there is no concrete proposal either in the communication or in the vote. There are a few things I wonder about: it is remarkable that the single measure, which almost everyone in the committee’s consultation pointed out as the most important, namely increased rates of social assistance, is not mentioned by the majority. Moreover, the very cautious proposal of the Distribution Committee that the indicative rates of social assistance should follow the wage trend of society has not been heard by the majority. The second is the majority’s position that the tax system should be used for redistribution by paying the highest income percentage more in taxes, while it should be exactly the same child benefit if the family income is NOK 300000 or SEK 3 million. kr, or the same price for kindergartens and SFO. In my mind, this is illogical — different welfare schemes should also be used actively to increase distribution and even combat poverty. As the representative Sanner said in his speech, SV's former leader, Kristin Halvorsen, once claimed that combating poverty was just about political will. I cannot support that claim, but I agree that combating poverty is also dependent on political will. Unfortunately, that will is absent from the position we are discussing today, where only the Left is promoting divergent proposals for government status quo policy. The left is not a part of the majority who, on page 9 of the election, asks the government to assess whether further measures are necessary, such as: through the qualification programme, to get people with complex and social problems into work. This is a recommendation to the government on which we wholeheartedly end up, and which logically emerges from our proposal No. 24th@item: inlistbox The illogical thing is that none of the parties behind the majority comment supports the Left's proposal. Finally, I address the 25 concrete proposals of the Left to combat poverty specifically directed at children and children's families. On behalf of the 74 000 children who live in poverty, I am disappointed that no more are supporting them.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2202	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2205	Norway is one of those countries where there is the least difference between people. That's good in many ways. It is good for the country's competitiveness, and it is good for those who live in Norway. Small income differences build up under the goal of equivalency, democracy and solidarity. A balanced distribution gives citizens better opportunities to get education, work, a safe housing and good health. That is why we are focusing on comprehensive Community solutions, a good social security network, a good education system and a good education system for all. One of the most important factors in this is that tripartite cooperation and those involved in the organisations in the labour market have ensured that those with the lowest wages are involved in the development of income. We've been able to combine even distribution and a social security network with economic growth. As a result of our social model, we are among the countries with the most constant distribution of income in Europe. Work is the cornerstone of the government's distribution policy. That is why we need to pursue a responsible economic policy that ensures low unemployment and high professional participation. In addition, we need to qualify, train and develop the labour force and have a working life where everyone is given opportunities, because it is crucial for even distribution in the future. That's why we've been focusing on education and an inclusive working life. We're going back to another side of the distribution policy in the next case, so I'm going to save my views on it -- it's about capital income, wealth taxes, and what happened after 2005, which has given a more even distribution of income through redistribution in the tax system. For many years, the proportion of the population with income below the low income level has remained stable. It has remained stable despite the fact that increasing immigration has given a significant fill to the bottom of the distribution of income. This is because many people get out of poverty after a few years. Among other things, many immigrants experience a good increase in income after a few years in Norway. It is also gratifying that the incidence of low incomes among immigrants has decreased since 2004. But because immigrants have increased in total, the number of immigrants with low incomes has increased. This is why integration policy will be important in the future. Although the proportion of low income in the population is the same, the composition of the low income group is now different, with fewer pensioners and more immigrants. But at the same time, families with low incomes have increased. It's an important challenge. Young people are entitled to safety, good growth conditions and good opportunities for development. Providing equal opportunities for a good start in life to all young people contributes to social mobility. That is why we are making a special effort to combat young people by investing in kindergartens, schools, active leisure time and good child protection. There is no doubt that the best insurance against poverty is participation in the labour market. That is the broad consensus. The efforts for a more inclusive working life, the employment strategy for the disabled and specific measures to help more immigrants enter the labour market are an important part of the fight against poverty. Smooth distribution is a valuable quality in Norwegian society. It's a quality we want to protect, but it doesn't come of itself, it requires constant attention and effort. The government's message provides a good basis for this work. Society and community must be so strong that people need not fear to become weak: it can be an important starting point for this work – that we prepare each other closely and through a strong community and contribute through Community solutions, that we achieve a good balance between ownership and the responsibility of the community, that we achieve a good balance between general arrangements and targeted measures, that we achieve a good balance between the work line on the one hand and poverty traps on the other hand, that people get out of work. We measure the evolution of economic sizes. At the same time, it is also important that we measure development with other sizes. Therefore, the government of the national budget has developed indicators for so-called sustainable development. An important goal in the future will also be to include quality of life values into these indicators, so that we can measure society differently than through economic sizes alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2226	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2229	Increasing numbers of children are growing up in families with persistently low incomes. These are often families living from public transfers. 81 pst. children living in a poor household have a migrant background. Figures from various instances show that families living with social benefits regularly send money to relatives and friends in their country of origin. For Somalis, this applies to 74 pst. In total, several billion crowns are sent out of the country each year. In other words, money from the fissures distributed among poor families in Norway, so that they can give their children safe and materially good growth, ends up as uncontrolled assistance to other countries. Does the Minister of Finance think this is a good use of taxpayers' money? If not, what will the Minister of Finance do to prevent different transfers from fulfilling his intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2238	Firstly, it is important that people have opportunities for safety through participation in the labour market. That is why integration policy is important. Secondly, those who are unable to support themselves through their own income must also have the security of their livelihood so that they can have a good life in that context. It will always be so that people, whether immigrants or others, can feel solidarity and responsibility for their own, parents and others. It's not uncommon in a society that you, for example. help your parents, as you can also see, is the case with immigrants who send money to their parents abroad. It's part of the next love that I think it's important to take care of. Then, of course, we have to have arrangements that allow us to control income flows in and out of Norway in a good way, but there is another debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2249	These are the seventh and last results to be measured. I explained in my post four points where the government has not succeeded: there have been several poor children, there have been several homeless people, waiting times and queues have increased during drug treatment, and there have been failures to compensate for social differences between school students. That's the result after almost seven years of red-green rule. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether, at the end of this ageing period, fewer poor children will be experienced, fewer homeless, shorter waiting times for those in need of drug treatment, and that the school will be more successful in compensating for social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2256	I agree that these are the results that count in policy. During this period there have been 250000 more persons employed. The most important contribution in terms of child poverty is getting people out of low income traps, getting people out in such a way that they can ensure a good outcome for themselves and theirs. It's the most important thing. Then there are challenges in a wide range of areas that we're going to address. Yes, we're going to make sure that drug users get a better life, and that people have a greater chance of mastering their lives: but I insist that the main result of our policies is that more people come to work, that we have increased employment by 250,000. In the period 2001–2005 there was only one tenth increase in employment relative.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2265	The President will allow the representative, Sanner, to have a second line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2268	I record that the Council of State did not respond to my question, but rather boasted that more people have been employed. But it does not help to increase the number of persons employed when you do not increase the employment rate. The reality is that the increase in employment does not even compensate for the fact that we have increased in pre-employment. If you look at the employment rate — how many are actually at work before age — it has remained silent since 2005. Among people with disabilities, it has declined since 2005. I almost have to be allowed to repeat my question: when it comes to the concrete results, will we see fewer children living in poor families, will we see fewer homeless people, will we experience shorter waiting times for those in need of drug treatment, and will the school more experience compensating for social differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2275	I understand that the representative Sanner is doing what he can to try to minimize the strong growth we've had in employment. During this period, we have experienced the greatest economic backwardness since World War II through the financial crisis. We have come out of it with Europe's lowest unemployment rate, a sustained low unemployment rate and a sustained high employment rate. We must not try to talk down on the good results of the policy. Let's move on. We need to strengthen the qualification programme. We need a good employment strategy for vulnerable groups. We're going to continue to work on integration. We're going to continue working on school drop-outs. We're going to work on getting more apprenticeships for those who want to learn a profession and go out to work. It is an important part of the policy. And then we'll measure the results when we get to the end of this period. But there's one thing I'm pretty sure about, and it's that the Right Policy, which is a common school attack, [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2282	In that case, the Council of State must come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2286	It could be tempting to say that if you do it too expensive to go to private schools, there is at least no good contribution. And there's the government on its way. Otherwise, I agree with the Council of State that quality of life can be so numerous – it’s not just talking about crowns and ears. We look forward to further indicators that can help measure our values in this society in more than GDP. He knows that the Christian People's Party has taken up many times in this room. But to that concrete thing, because we're not going to get away with that. My claim is that what we should do absolutely something about, and that points far beyond a budgetary year, is child poverty. From the Christian People's Party, we have proposed three areas where we can do something together, including: in the case of one-off and kindergarten rates. We've got a clear no from the government. Isn't this a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2295	As regards the development of quality of life indicators, we shall work on it, in addition to those already in the national budget, in Chapter 3. It'll be an important area in the future. The representative of the Seven has taken up some specific issues. At social assistance rates: what is important here is that this is a municipal benefit. What I'm afraid of is what it could contribute to if, for example, a decision was taken. national minimum standards. One thing is municipal autonomy, the other is that one can put people in poverty traps. But the fact that through social assistance people have an opportunity to do well is important. In the case of kindergarten rates, municipalities already have the opportunity to grade the kindergarten payment. The guidelines state that municipalities should have such schemes in place. I accept the invitation of the representative of Syversen. We'll get to talk about these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2306	In the extension of the representative Syversen's question and in a distributional perspective, I have a question for the Minister of Finance on child welfare. As I mentioned in my post, those who have 300,000 kroner in income, and those who have 3 million. kr in income, often the same rates. They receive the same grant from the State of Child Welfare, and the same families shall receive exactly the same grants in terms of the maximum price linked to the residence permit in kindergartens and in the SFO. What does the Minister of Finance think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2313	With regard to the involvement of families with children in recent years, we have given priority to services in this government. This means that you have had a strong expansion of the kindergarten sector — including the scheme for payment in kindergartens. Prices are lower for each year in the case of kindergartens. Keeping the nursery price nominally unchanged amounts to about 400 million. kr annually. As I said in my reply to a reply from the representative Syversen, the municipalities can measure against those who have a low payment capacity, and the municipalities should have such arrangements. In the case of families with children, I think that the line we have chosen, to bet on services, is important for many reasons. We'll keep doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2320	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2323	It would have been tempting to start with some comments about the representative’s new concept, namely ‘residence permit’ in kindergartens, but I will leave it. I tipped it off a little bit, but it was a very good one! There's a lot to talk about here. I would like to make some comments on a slightly more general level. I see that there are several others who have signed up, who can certainly elaborate on different aspects of the matter. First, I understand that some people find it difficult to talk about the results in a country like Norway. What are the facts? In my opinion, the society that has evolved in Norway over many decades, a society like economists, both in Norway and in the rest of the world, did not think it would be possible to create. It is a society based at the bottom on a market economy, a free-thinking process, as the engine of both business and value creation. But it is not unhindered or – we say – unruly, because it works in conjunction with strong organisations in the working life of the third sector and a strong state. When you combine the best of the three different worlds, you get what many call the Nordic model or the Norwegian model, where we have, according to the economists' estimate, too high taxes, too much redistribution, too strong a state, too much welfare and too much rights for ordinary people. At that time it would not be possible to create such a prosperity society as Norway has evolved into. That is disproved. Now the pendulum has turned around. Now there are many economic environments, both in Norway and in the rest of the world, facing the North, towards Norway, to look at how this economic policy model has evolved over many years, and has created it as for all, most of them a huge increase in wealth materially. But – and this is where I come to the point – it has also created a country where, after all, the differences are small, in an international context. It is redistributed to a completely different extent than in other parts of the world, and the share of low income is low. That doesn't mean that Kristin Halvorsen wasn't right when she said it's a matter of political will. That's what she said. Let me just defend my excellent colleague, who was also on the finance committee, the former finance minister, because she never said it could be removed with a pen stroke – no one has managed to find that quote. But she said it was about political will. And if there's something this Big City has been trying to do -- and then I mean across many parties up through the years -- then it's trying to do something to lift people out of poverty. The problem is that those who were poor or those who were defined as a low income group in 2005 are not the same in 2012. Those I met who were poor when I first met at Stortinget were among others. minimum pensioners, to take an example. They're no longer in this statistics. Why not? This is because the government's parliamentary basis here in the Chamber – it may have been unanimous even – has increased pensions and social security to a level that makes it more viable. So society has evolved. We've had an immigration – we've had a demographic development that makes things different. That's why I'm also the first one to admit that this isn't easy. This is not uncomplicated and there are no quick fix solutions that apply here. So some say, even in the setting, that the government parties are more concerned with fighting wealth than with fighting poverty. I have to say that – with all due respect – that is not right. What should be the alternative? Will the wealthiest in Norway not contribute to the common fund become less poor? That's clearly what seems to be the reasoning, for two reasons: if you take away the tax for those who have the most in this society, we get more tax revenue. Some people believe that lower taxes give higher revenues. Or there could be other things, which I can't get into right now. I think it must be possible to see the clear context, which is very well expressed in the distribution message presented by the Minister of Finance, namely that there is a link between the extent to which the redistributive society is, the degree to which it is similar in society, and the degree to which it has low incomes. That shows the message very clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2347	The distribution message provides a fine overview of government's distribution policy and efforts to combat poverty. We have a lot to show about good results and arrangements that have been put in place in the last 100 years. I'm especially concerned about work, that everyone should have their place there. Here we are successful as a nation, but there are still challenges for some groups. It is now a challenge for young people to get out of work if they have not completed high school. The new GIV is a good measure, but there is a need to monitor the results closely. Those who don't finish school at all are very vulnerable. They will also have problems getting the jobs that unskilled people would like to get before at gas stations and in food chains, where students and people with professional letters would like to go ahead today. Then the path to lasting social security can be short or a long run with social services and a life of poverty. The best thing we can do for young people is to get them qualified for work in their own way. The State of Labour and Welfare has a number of tools to get people to work. It is the follow-up of those who are sick, follow-up of those who receive daily allowances, redundancy payments, economic social assistance, the qualification programme, wage subsidies, temporary wage subsidies, aid work, work places of work. These must not become a sleep cushion to get people into their own lives. We can imagine that we ourselves have a longer-term working space – then the dream of permanent work and our own salary for our own work will come true. I want a society where more employers are involved and take on a social responsibility and have the inequalities employed by them. There are several employers who are good at this today, but here we have a job to do. Poverty is more than one thing. The most important tool we have for fighting is work. I know a lady who is lonely and has a son. The two have lived together for many years alone, as far back as I can remember. She was out of work for years. Her son, who went to kindergarten with my boys, always said when I was going to pick up my boys: Laila, you are so very happy, you. It was nice to hear that a boy thought I was happy, but I also made some thoughts. I knew that his mother was lying on the bench at home, on the sofa in the living room, out of activity and out of work. The welfare arrangements of the mother went on fire, and she began to work. From the sideline, you could see a mother blooming. The little family got to a little white Honda, the boy started at one of the city's football clubs, and he beamed in another way when I met him. He told me about his experiences instead of telling me how happy I was. All children get richer if they have parents working – not just financially, but we parents get a different dimension with us home. All children shall be entitled to the experience of participating in a leisure activity. If the parents cannot afford to do so, today this room will be heard as if there are no arrangements. There are a number of schemes, but they are not used well enough. We have to follow this up. The People's Security Act is on about 800 pages. It is both a witness and a result of 100 years of active development of social protection – a proof of the sustainability of our society. Here we can't just roll this by making quick, quick decisions. We need to further develop welfare systems in a good and smart way.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2364	The distribution message gives a good account of the government’s efforts to balance economic and social differences and to combat poverty. The fact that society is characterised by even distribution is an important objective in itself. The smooth distribution of goods between us is fair and contributes to social stability and cohesion. Mutual trust across generations, geography and groups are good values to build society on. Universal welfare systems provide equal opportunities and are important for the emergence of the middle class on the societal model. As measured by the Gini index, the distribution of income in Norway is more constant than in most other countries, and differences in Norway have decreased in the last six years. Among those with persistent low incomes, single dependants, young single residents and people with a migrant background are overrepresented. Despite the financial crisis, the Norwegian economy has been good in the period. It's created a quarter of a million new jobs. Low leave has contributed to better distribution. Low unemployment and high employment are crucial both for the national economy, the economy of households and redistribution. An important contribution to low unemployment is safe economic governance, which takes into account the level of interest rates, rates and competitiveness. There can be several approaches to the relationship between even distribution and economic growth. But there is much that suggests that even distribution contributes positively to economic growth. Equal distribution can help maintain demand in times of decline and reduce economic fluctuations. On 18 June 2010, Professor Steinar Holden of the University of Oslo took a different perspective, namely that the European debt crisis requires pension reforms and tightening. If the differences in society are already large and increasing, necessary reforms may appear unreasonable and less feasible. Both transfers and the tax system affect the distribution. Universal access to health and education can contribute to increased productivity, as well as more even distribution. Increases in the minimum pension have reduced the differences. Good access to education contributes to the emergence of talents, and more people, regardless of their social background, are given the opportunity to realise their potential. Economic inequality creates inequality in health. The fact that marginal taxes on labour mean more for those with low labour incomes than for those with high incomes is an argument that progressive tax systems contribute to both economic growth and redistribution. The 2006 tax reform offsets marginal taxes on labour and capital. The reform thus provided both a better tax system and a good distribution effect. In recent years, significant changes have also been made in property taxes, with higher base deductions and fairer valuation rules for dwellings. In total, this has contributed to making the tax system more progressive. In the past, the tax system was regressive for the tenth highest income. The housing market affects distribution in several ways. Households' debt is closely related to residential loans, and fluctuations in interest rate levels thus affect distribution. Increased housing prices give rise to increased differences between those who own and those who rent, in favour of those who own. Good distribution policies require holistic consolidation and broad strategies. Together with welfare policy and tax policy, housing policy is also among the key areas affecting distribution, differences and poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2387	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2390	Combating differences is important in terms of both money and power, because we create more when there are small differences. It gives more security and trust between people in society. In working life, values are created. Money is distributed, and power is distributed if we secure strong organizations that care for the interests and rights of ordinary people. This is why Norway has become a good society. It's true that working life is important, and that a lot more of those who are out of work today could come in if we did things better than we do today. But I would nevertheless strongly warn against believing that everything can be solved through the line of work. We also have to make sure that people who can't get a job because their health fails, or because they have big problems. Therefore, I would strongly warn against the attacks I see on the welfare benefits that will provide sick and worn-out people who can't work anymore. That's when we create poverty. The problem with the right parties – and I don't mean the Christian People's Party – and their attack today is not that there is no child poverty and that it has increased. The problem is that all the policies they want to pursue will make it worse. So it is no longer until Christmas that we treated new disability benefits. The Left Party, which today has many proposals for reducing child poverty, also proposed cutting child supplements to the poorest families of children – to people who are too sick to be in work. Then there will be more poor children. The Right Party and the Advance Party proposed to take 1 billion. kr from the lone caregivers, who is the second group of poor families with children – 1 billion. kr in a jafs. These are the money they could spend while they trained and qualified for work. We see that those who do it come out of poverty. The problem is that the criticism comes from parties that systematically attack what these families are going to live on. I have two reports here; I get time for just one now. It's Nav's report, which says something about what it's like to live with little money. It says: ‘Living in poverty leads to more passiveness, marginalisation and isolation than to increased activity.’ Work pays off. Nav also says that we need to focus less on the concern that social assistance can be addictive and act as a trap of poverty. No, people and children's families have something to live with, creating an opportunity to get out of a difficult situation rather than to stay in it. So we have a lot left to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2409	Today, the new unemployment rate came. The rest of Europe is struggling. The vacancy here is at 2.6 pst. minus 9 pst. from last year. This does not come of itself, but is the result of a determined government policy. Work is the main instrument in the fight against poverty and social disparities. The distribution message is behind the large numbers. Some groups are depending on. The number of poor children has increased, many with a migrant background. The mobility of income among immigrants is lower than elsewhere. We know the germ of a society where social differences not only exist, but also follow ethnic dividing lines. It's a society we don't want. The experience of some other European countries is frightening. We have avoided social unrest and strong opposition in the population. We have to keep doing that. It's in everyone's interest, even though the proponent's spokesperson, Tybring-Gjedde, doesn't seem to have taken that point. The Communication underlines the rapid settlement, qualification, training provision at school, language and social skills as fundamental to integration and economic autonomy among immigrants. «New chance» is continued with a particular focus on immigrant women. That is good, and we are given the opportunity to have an even more concrete debate on targeted instruments in the notified communication on integration. Individual organisation must be at the heart of that debate. Immigrants are just as different as everyone else. Many immigrant groups are more educated than the rest of the population, such as Filipinos, Poles, Russians, Indians and young people from Iran and China. The worst way out are people from Somalia, Pakistan, Thailand and Turkey. On the contrary, young people with immigrant parents continue to attend high school and participate in professional life as others, but at the same time live over 30,000 immigrant children in households with persistent low incomes. It has a tendency to inherit. There are major gender differences, especially among non-Westerns. Immigrants are better off than immigrant women. Seven out of ten long-term Pakistani women are out of work. The reasons are more, social control, gender roles, many children, poor language, low education and discrimination. Measures for them provide better welfare for children. The Drammen's magazine recently had a great article about ten immigrant women's dream of life in Norway. It was everything from work in ambulances, doctors, socionomists, own company to a 50-year-old Pakistani woman who for the first time got their own money in connection with a summer job at Drammen Hospital. She also had a dream: I want to get out of the kitchen and find a job, preferably on the treadmill, with nice colleagues and an active working day. I hope to get a practical place in the first place. That's what she should get, for her own good, the family and the value creation of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2420	We cannot distribute ourselves to wealth, says the Progress Party, which believes that increasing differences stimulate the economy. Together, paying for Community services by capacity calls the Party of Advances confiscation. The other opposition parties follow up the same track by criticizing what they call the government's unilateral distribution focus. Well, we can actually distribute to wealth. It's this class compromise called the Nordic model. Society with small differences is the most productive. The effect of economic incentives is strongly exaggerated and has the same effect as drugs: you need to have more and more of it. Small differences seem to promote production, while people get better. This is what Wilkinson and Pickett documented in the book The Spirit Level. We can go to Norwegian Professor Ottar Hellevik who in his monitoring studies shows that it is those with the greatest income that tends to think that they have less than others and are most dissatisfied. The similarity between drugs and inequality is also that if you have first started on that problem, it is demanding to stop — it is accelerating. That's what we've seen in the Western world in the last 20 years. This is what created the financial crisis, which might as well be called an inequality crisis with the accumulation of wealth on few hands and a stagnation and decline in the majority, while Norway under the red-green government is a remarkable exception. We have reversed the trend, and SV believes that we should have ambitions to reverse the trend even more strongly. Studies show that people in Norway and Europe want more equality. That distribution is also the key to combating poverty is obvious. Poverty is a relative concept. It's about you not being able to afford the things that others see as a matter of course, about people being marginalized because others are running away with wealth. Poverty is alienation. Drivers of increased poverty are increased management salaries and increased capital income. This is how relative poverty is created, which must be combated. At the same time, we need to increase the proportion of those with the lowest income. It's about getting people to work, but it's, as many people have said, about taking good care of those who can't work. I don't share the concern that we have so many in social security. The important thing is that we have a lot of people working. The rest is just about how we ensure the well-being of those who cannot work, and they are fewer in our society than in most other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2431	Two years ago, the NHO and Bernander launched the slogan ‘welfare trap’. It's a slogan that spreads false myths, an slogan that spreads myths that moderate differences and a good welfare state are a threat to value creation and innovation. Right, Left and Christian People's Party contribute to the same false myths when they state in the setting that government is investing too heavily in tax policy distribution policies and that there is a problem for value creation. But it's putting the problem completely on the head. It is not that there are moderate differences and a good welfare country that is the problem of value creation and innovation. It is precisely the distribution policy in which the tax policy is important, which is the basis of the Norwegian model, for the Nordic model, which has proved itself very well in terms of both productivity development and value creation. There are moderate differences and an egalitarian society that means that we have an effective workforce, self-employed workers and good cooperation at all levels of an enterprise. That's exactly what is the competitive advantage of Norwegian labour, which means that we're getting along in international competition. We saw it, among others. clearly in the North Sea, how Norwegian workers at all levels of the organisation were more active than workers from countries that had longer command lines and greater differences and that at the lowest levels of the organisation would not take responsibility and would have to wait until the manager had given clearance. This is an example of the fact that the moderate differences are actually productivity-promoting in practical working life. An effective welfare country is also a good basis for innovation. It frees resources to have a safe welfare state and good welfare arrangements to build their lives on. I was with Erna Solberg and Trine Skei Grande in a debate about two years ago, which included: This year's women's founder presented the background that she was there. Maybe a lot of people thought she'd say something about the huge tax burden in Norway. No, what she said was that if we had not had full kindergarten coverage in Norway, she would not have stood where she stood today – then she had not our founder today. Now it's time we stopped talking about the welfare traps, we need to talk about the welfare springboard. We have to divide to create.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2440	In the distribution message and the corresponding setting, a lot is written about education — from kindergarten up to adults. That's good. Here I am a little unsure whether to say ‘the elderly’ or ‘the elderly’. In a modern knowledge society, people shall have the right and opportunity to education throughout their lives, as far as possible irrespective of their ethnicity, gender, age, level of knowledge and skills, economics, labour relations and geography. Indeed, a fundamental element of the SV's knowledge view is that everyone should have access to free education, knowledge and research. ‘Various people — equal opportunities’ and ‘Share the Goods’ in this case the educational goods are good SV slogans in this way. Knowledge enriches the quality of life. Everyone has the ability to learn something through life, and most people want to learn all their lives. The time has to be over when we view education as something that the individual finishes in youth or as a young adult, almost a one-off stunt. No, education is something you want to take, or you have to take, all your life – either to refresh old knowledge and skills, to expand basic education or re-school, or just because knowledge is fun, knowledge is well-being, knowledge is public health. In the future, working life, such as society, will make an increasing demand for up-to-date knowledge and competences. Then it is wise for the same working life and society to encourage and facilitate people to train as easily as possible. We're not quite there today. Therefore, education should be primarily open. It shall be easy to get in, but it shall be arduous enough to carry out and come out competently. In particular, it is important that we get more care in terms of our immigrants and not least immigrants. Let's warmly welcome them, offensively give them good, preferably professional, Norwegian training, a generous and trusting real-life assessment and an opportunity to quickly fill any gaps in their skills, preferably while they are at work. Similarly, industry and the public sector – and organisations, for that matter – need to see training and empowerment as a continuous activity to a greater extent than at present. This is not about expanding the welfare community. No, it's about what a modern society needs to base, what kind of knowledge a modern society needs to create, just to be not only a good welfare state, but also a good value-creating country. We are on the right track, but we need to lower the cost of studying, we need to strengthen the rights and obligations of paid education in the workplace and in the workplace, and not least the Nav system needs to establish an equivalence between the workline and the educational line.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2453	We have today received a new discussion from the government for treatment. For me, the policy is about will. It may be will for something, or it may be will for something. Today we get proof of what people are most against. The government is most opposed to wealth, Tybring-Gjedde is most opposed to immigration, Left is most opposed to poverty. ‘What are the facts’, said Torgeir Mikalsen, and followed up with ‘For my opinion is...’. I mean, when you're dealing with facts, you're not going to deal with an opinion, you're going to deal with facts. Now I come up with a fact. In fact, there have been several poor children under this government. That should be the main focus. That's the main focus of the Left. To combat child poverty, it is important to have a school that actually balances the differences. To that, we have put in a number of proposals. In the election campaign poll, many people talked about poverty, especially among children. We invited a broad settlement to fight poverty, especially child poverty. Lars Sponheim spoke about it in one of the last debates he was in here. The first proposal presented by the Left at the beginning of this ageing period was the proposal to combat child poverty. Then we were told that it was nice, and that there were many good suggestions, but we had to wait for the distribution message. We have submitted many proposals all along and been told that we should wait for the distribution notice. In the election campaign I stood several times and discussed poverty, where all parties were in favour of SIFO rates of social assistance. It went away. It is funny that Holmelid actually remembers a election debate, because I thought that perhaps the government parties had forgotten. For most people, in the election campaign, they promised to stick to SIFO rates when it came to social assistance. It's just the left that's followed up. I have to tell Karin Andersen that attack might be the best defense, but here we have, after all, submitted a number of proposals for years. What we've been told is to wait for this distribution message, and then there's a discussion problem. We had actually expected the government to have some willingness to fight poverty among those who have actually never done anything to end up there, namely the children, of whom we know more and more have come. Instead, grants are made to single-parents in the budgets, and there are a number of other cuts in the budget – but the consequences of voting here are difficult to show. This is the world's luckiest government, there is no government in history or on the planet that has so much space for action! Nevertheless, you choose not to prioritize it. It is not the level of taxation or transfers that are the problem, the problem is that you have to have measures that reach exactly those who need it. The left has today presented 25 proposals, and then we'll see if you're willing to do it, or if you just want a discussion problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2474	The distribution message is about the core of politics in many ways: dividing living conditions and values between groups in society. In the distribution message, which the government has presented to the United Kingdom, there are measures to secure communities with small differences through good distribution and action against poverty. But the distribution message is also a central health policy issue. When we as political rulers distribute living conditions such as income, work, education, housing, food and the environment, we also distribute framework conditions for health. Politics has great health powers. Differences in living conditions give rise to differences in health. Today, statistics are clear, the higher the socio-economic status, the better health. These differences have not been reduced by the development of wealth in society. On the contrary, health improvements have been highest in groups with higher social status. In order to smooth out health inequalities, we also need to smooth out differences in living conditions, and this requires cross-sectoral efforts. The distribution message is in many ways a public health message in practice. The distribution selection established that the relationship to work is the most important single factor preventing low income, and that early prevention is the most effective means of securing it for the most part possible. Early prevention is the key to better distribution and thus better health in the population. Although the differences in Norwegian society are small, it is worrying that within this context there are quite marked social health differences. Men at the Sagens in Oslo can expect to live until they are 68 years old, while men in the district of West Aker live on average until they are over 80. Health is important for all, but the requirements for achieving good health are very different. An effective way to drive early prevention is to change the framework conditions for health-related behaviour, i.e. the introduction of a structural instrument. It may be to build bicycle roads, increase tobacco taxes and unhealthy food, or ban smoking in dining areas. Such structural agents have demonstrated their effectiveness, and we have good traditions in Norway to use structural drugs in the tobacco and alcohol sectors. However, in the fields of nutrition, physical activity and mental health, we have a much weaker tradition of using strong and effective measures. There is no reason for us not to do the same in the nutrition sector, as we have done in the tobacco and alcohol sectors today – to use the charging system to make healthy food cheaper and unhealthy food more expensive, for example. by adjusting the sugar levy. We also need to assess restrictions on the marketing of unhealthy food, especially to children and young people. Developments today are such that diet and physical activity in many ways are becoming the next big class division – a class question. I mean, I don't think we can allow, we have to use the policy to facilitate the healthy choices, make the healthy choices easier, and we have to make radical political action to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2487	The debate has been marked by many words of honor, and it is not difficult to join the vast majority. But I notice that when the red-green parts are going to boast of what you've achieved, it's more about what you've managed to scratch at the top than what you've managed to lift at the bottom. There is every reason to enjoy — as the Minister of Finance also does — low unemployment. But it is an undeniable fact that the employment rate is exactly the same today as it was in 2005. Since the financial crisis came to an end, the employment rate has fallen quite sharply. Since 2008, most jobs have been in the public sector. It is also a reality that the employment rate of people with disabilities has fallen steadily since 2006. These are challenges that need to be addressed if we are to safeguard the working line in the coming years. I really didn't intend to spend any special time on SV, because it seems that the party is about to prepare for a life in opposition. In any case, the representative Karin Andersen is heard as an opposition politician and appears to be less prepared to take responsibility for his own policy. Other SVs seem to be stuck in the old class struggle debate, instead of looking at what are the new class divisions in Norwegian society. The new class divisions go between those who are at work, who are related to work, and the growing group who are on a permanent basis out of work, not because you are sick and cannot work, but because you lack basic skills. Finally, the Minister of Finance said to me in reply that there was one thing that was certain, it was that the Right privatisation of the school was not the solution. But the right has never suggested privatizing school – never! Never has the Right suggested privatizing the school. But we want to let go of a few more fresh schools than those that have a religious foundation or an alternative pedagogy. This means that you can set up a technology gym, which means that you can set up a vocational school as a free school – but privatisation is not about it. What the Minister of Finance has to do, however, is look at Oslo, because it has been possible to pursue a good school policy that compensates for social differences. Learn from what is done instead of bringing to square statements that are directly lying.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2498	You have to be right-wing to believe in the story that the representative Sanner is telling here from the pulpit, about how miserable it is here in the country after six years of red-green rule, except for Oslo. With the exception of Oslo – and why? Well, supposedly because in Oslo right-wing, and because Right-wing school policy has made wonders about creating more equality and eliminating social differences. Do you also have less poverty in Oslo than in the rest of the country? That's not right, the picture that Sanner and the other right parties are trying to create. The right-hand parties try to rewrite the story by making the Norwegian model something that everyone can join, and that everyone has been involved in developing. They claim that the values represented by the Norwegian model are general Norwegian values — not social democratic, at least. Do the right parties believe that they will pursue a continued red-green policy if the 2013 elections would give a different majority than today? Then it is not necessary to change the government. Do the right parties believe that there has been full agreement on the development of the Norwegian welfare state, as it appears today? The Norwegian model is characterised by Community solutions designed to give all equal opportunities and freedom to live the life they want, not just the few who can afford it. It is characterised by small differences in income, high productivity and universal welfare services. Norway is one of the countries in the world with least living conditions. We have achieved this through the fission layer that our tax system represents, and through good cooperation with the social partners. I notice that the Right is trying to take ownership of the welfare society that we have today. At the same time, they forget to tell about the changes they'll make if they come to power, as they did the last time they put in government. The right has never worked for community solutions; they have never worked for small income differences. With regard to the Oslo school and its emphasis, I would like to point out that last week, when the committee was on a committee tour in Singapore, we received a great deal of praise for the quality we have at Norwegian school. It was emphasised that Norwegian students, Norwegian workers, are in demand because they have a quality and competence acquired through the Norwegian school, which they do not get in the doggy schools in Asia, namely creativity and the ability and willingness to use the knowledge they have acquired. Right and Oslo School should notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2513	I'm sure there's a Right-Man here! It was a relatively tumultuous speech by the representative Micaelsen that made me take the floor. It is quite well done to talk about Norwegian society and how well we are doing in Norway, without as much as mentioning oil – or even China’s remarkable progress. What has created what Norway we now have is a combination of the happiness that we found oil, and the fact that we have had a significantly improved trading relationship due to China's progress, with many cheap products that we import. Then he talked about the idea of freedom, and there are so many foreign economists coming to study Norway. I wonder about that. What they find, at least, was in the newspaper of the day yesterday: the Heritage Foundation had found that Norway had dropped from 30th to 40th place in freedom statistics – since 2005. So it's not that much to hit the chest with. I've never heard anyone from this pulpit talk about the rich not contributing, but it's a matter of perhaps wanting to discuss a tax – and we're going to take that discussion afterwards – that weakens Norwegian jobs through the way it works. Then I would like to make some comments to the Minister of Finance, because I think he was pretty little out of touch with the representative Sanner. A finance minister knows very well – and we get that in answer to almost every question we ask – that there is no momentary adjustment in the economy. Much of the employment growth up to 2008 was due to a fantastic boom, and it was due to many of the measures taken by the civil government in the period up to 2005. So liberal I think we should be. What the statistics show is that after 2008, as the representative Sanner said, almost no growth in the private sector, it has been exclusively employment growth in the public sector. The employment rate has fallen, and since we are discussing the distribution message, the actual employment share of physically disabled people has fallen quite sharply. I also think the Finance Minister could take a look out the window when he comes from Hedmark to Oslo. He will experience a two-part Norway. There's not much of an infective effect of the oil. Social democracies have been overthrown since 1945. It was in this state that "nave" arose as a concept, and it is a state draining for private jobs, precisely because today we have an economy that is almost exclusively based on oil. So a certain humility I had actually expected when it comes to part of those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2528	In the reply between the undersigned and the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Finance concluded by saying that we should continue to ‘talk’ on these issues. That is perhaps exactly what we feel that there has been a little too much of in the handling of this matter – talk. We had a goal on the part of the Christian People's Party, and, as the representative Skei Grande said, there were great expectations that instruments would come in this message, the distribution message. It's good discussions, but it's talk. So we thought, OK, we're going to challenge the government in three areas like the government itself says is a challenge, among other things. the risk of increasing child poverty, also because this government removes the cash support for a year-on-year, which in fact means that some families with children will fall into the standard of living if it is not compensated in any way for those who fall outside some schemes. I have mentioned the three challenges: social assistance, graduated rates in SFOs and kindergartens, and one-off social assistance. So there was no desire for action, it was more of a desire to talk. We note that, but I can only say that it disappoints me. Then the representative Holmelid was involved in tax policy and distribution. It is clear that we can talk about fiscal policy as a means of distribution, but what we are aiming for in our remark is, among other things, of course. taxes on wealth. The last question is: is it to be set up in such a way as to prevent the creation of Norwegian jobs? Then we have a problem. I think more and more people see that we're about to end up there. I don't think it's because you want less distribution that Roar Flåthen and LO or Minister of Industry Giske think it's time to do something, it's probably because you see that this prevents value creation, which in turn provides the basis for good distribution policies with public dollars, among other things. We agree with many of the proposals of the Left. In this setting, we chose to put it in the notes, but you put it next to each other, you see that there's a lot of similarity between two good centers.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2542	I almost don't know where to start. First to Trine Skei Grande, who has left the hall: it's not like I don't like immigration or immigrants. Immigrants and immigration are excellent, but with an immigration that we are unable to integrate, as we see today, and that we are unable to value assimilate in terms of equality, equality, freedom of expression, personal freedom and secular legal rules, and when, for example. – as the representative Lise Christoffersen said – there are cultural differences that make women home, and you can't get people out, and you get too many to Norway too quickly, it'll just go on. It has been proven and proven, not just in Norway, but in all countries throughout Europe. It is then possible to say that this goes too fast. But that is a wild policy. To the representative of Torgeir Micaelsen, who said: «We have had an immigration.» We have had an immigration – as if someone has got it from somewhere. No, there are policies adopted by the government, except for EEA immigration. It is policies adopted by the government, either through international agreements or through its own policies. It's not going to get away. Then you can mean one thing or the other about it. So here socialists run after socialists on this pulpit and criticize capitalists – capitalists who allow you socialists to sit here and make a million. It's the capitalists who make you have the opportunity to sit here as big business representatives and make a million. Nevertheless, it is the capitalists you have to stand here and criticize. Who else can pay the wages to you socialists, if it's not the capitalists who create the values of Norwegian society? It has to be them – or is it such that everyone has to become a pensioner of the State pension fund? I'm starting to trick, because when you hear some of the representatives here, it almost seems like this. But it's like 30 pst today. do not complete secondary school. It's the way math skills in high school are very weak – and then you sit here and boast that there's little difference! Yes, there are slight differences. It has its good sides, but it also has its negative sides. I also think the Council of State can admit that, rather than one-sidedly stressing that the more like, the better. We've had societies that have tried to get it exactly the same. It's gone completely wrong, and there's a lot of communities that have tried it. So you have to have incentives as well, and it's possible to succeed. It's clear that when you're constantly told that it doesn't matter with school, or that the best ones are held back, and if you don't have the ability to make money and you get criticized every time you make money, you don't get that creativity and the will to stand on. Just someone to create opportunities for others, create jobs, so that others too can get income – so that the socialists can sit here and criticize – that's what we need. What we need are more capitalists, more who create values and jobs, no more who criticize those who create values.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2556	It's a reality that in equal distribution societies, more is created. They're more productive. They also have better health, and they have more security and less crime. It must be the most important thing for us who want to be serious about this. Then there's been a debate here about the poor families of children, and I'm glad. The left has promoted a number of proposals. Among other things, the leader of the Left says that it is now on the will, and that they have only received a discussion task. Today, early in the day, I took the trouble to read the Oslo City Council Declaration – the city we have with most poor and greatest differences. I'm a little relieved of these suggestions that have been put forward here today, and I didn't find them. So if it's on purpose, it might have to be like that. I hope Left makes sure that this becomes part of the foundation the Left will govern this city, because there are many of the children living here. A lot of these children and families need social assistance. We have made sure that there is now a monitoring of the functioning of social assistance in the municipalities of Norway. Unfortunately, the result was discouraging, because the Social Services Act does not only oblige us to help people in an economically difficult situation, to lift them out of the difficult situation, and to ensure structures that do not result from poverty. But this report unfortunately shows that in 45 out of 50 municipalities the law is broken. Then it's actually not so strange that very many of the most disadvantaged don't get out of poverty, because they have it hard, and because you don't take the underlying causes. We've had a debate in the last few days on social assistance obligations. The Social Services Act today says that you can have activities, i.e. You have to have it. But you have to follow people up in a proper way that makes them get on their legs, have mastery -- to say that, see the light in the tunnel -- and not just talk like this is about whipping some of the most difficult with the worst life to make something meaningful because it should be so inmari disciplining and good morals. It's not working! I'm quite disappointed that we're not going to do more than what we're doing, but at least I'm going to encourage you who are in power in this city, which has most of the poor, to at least implement the policy you're saying you have there. Here there are many people who need social assistance who need follow-up, who don't get it, and who want it. There are many social services that could really do better if the municipality of Nav had followed up their obligations, which they have under social services law.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2569	A comment to Jan Tore Sanner, who says that the Right has never suggested privatizing Norwegian school. In the autumn of 2005 and 2006, Kristin Clemet proposed that the number of private student places in primary school should increase by 6,800 – a growth of 50 pst. – and at secondary school level of 15 000, divided into 75 schools. There's a growth of 150 pst. Oh, my God! I was a state politician in Oppland at that time. If this had gone through, they would have punctured our entire structure in high school by going to high school -- I repeat: private school -- at Lillehammer and at Gjøvik. This is to privatize high school in Uppland, and it was an attempt to privatize high school students throughout the country. So a little humorous comment about Gunnar Gundersen. On my Facebook page yesterday, I wrote: «So thank you and the prize for not getting high on this ranking!» It was the foundation Heritage Foundation that conducted this investigation. One of the reasons we came out too badly was that we're just a moderate free country. We had an excessive public sector – it was too expansive. This foundation is in favour of a limited public sector – Limited Government – and public governance. It is a foundation that emphasizes that we should care for American 'values', as they say, and they are very much for'strong national defence'. I'm glad we didn't get on that ranking.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2578	The President will remind you that there are several issues left on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2581	To the representative Tybring-Gjedde I would just say: Did these capitalists create the millions all alone? Did the bricks sail, as Bertolt Brecht asks in the poem about the reading work? To Jan Tore Sanner who thinks we're just scratching on the top instead of lifting the bucket. The point is, we're doing both! And the point that he doesn't go into at all is that it's actually tense from bench to top that's important. We have a relative concept of poverty. The new class divisions, says Sanner, are between those who are in the workplace and those who are outside. Yeah, it's an important class distinction, but it's not the only one. Ask a low-paid part-time worker. Ask temporary workers. There are many who would be absolutely sure that the class distinction is far more than within and outside the workplace. On the other hand, the Right's most advanced side has never been exactly the class separator. So it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Those who are outside must not be poor. We're going to have a good social security system, which is good enough to take care of them, and there the government has lifted it by increasing the social security for them with the lowest social security. They must be able to live with a good conscience. In fact, having such social security is also part of the formation of wages in Norway. So people are going to be helped into work, but not starved, because it doesn't work. To the Christian People's Party: I have a great sense of Syversen's posts, but we have no reason to have a bad conscience. The products are: free nursery core time, low nursery rates, low self-payment, universal benefits. These are matters on which the government has made a great deal of effort, and where it should and will be put, as it is also described in the message. Then I would like to remind you that the Distribution Committee pointed out that one of the major problems creating child poverty is the cash support that keeps the mothers at home, hinders integration and thus creates persistent poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2596	It's actually, seriously here, a little bit of fun to right when Jan Tore Sanner tries to stand up as a good social democrat. I feel that he is doing his best to hide his blue policy with a light green rhetoric, and when he claims that Right has never tried to privatize Norwegian schoolwork, I think he has to go and talk to his colleagues who have run some of the departments that have to do with that sort of thing. I was also a local politician when the Right was put in power. If they had gained the impetus for the privatisation that they were going to do in West Agder, there would hardly have been any public secondary school in West Agder, except in Kristiansand. It wasn't just about privatization, it was a strong centralization, and it's not much in line with the praise of smaller differences that Jan Tore Sanner has presented in other contexts. Then I'm not going to remind Jan Tore Sanner of which city has the most poor, because that's the other thing that's done before here today. So I'm going to end with a little comment about Hans Olav Syversen. It is possible that he only thinks about capital taxation when he has stated in his remark that he thinks that the government places too much emphasis on fiscal policy allocation, but as the comment is formulated, it is quite clear that one is not satisfied with fiscal policy distribution policies in a broader perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2605	It is good to note that Aksel Hagen and I belong to different parties. I want both strong defence and limited the public sector, and I think there are limits to what both the public sector and politics can do. So it's very easy to see that we belong to completely different parties. But what made me want to take the word was privatisation. It is not so strange that the concept confusion is total in SV around it, because it contains ‘private’. But the numbers to which it was referred were post-school numbers. Free school is something completely different. Then the public is going to pay, and people are going to have a freedom of choice about which school to go to. That's what the red-greens are against. One is opposed to releasing other forces to solve the challenges in school, and it is quite incomprehensible in the light of the challenges faced by Norwegian school. Privatisation means that individuals have to pay for schooling themselves. Then we're talking about something completely different. If there's someone who's going to be privatizing in Norwegian school, it's the red-green ones, if you don't get to grips with the challenges that the school is facing. Then people start to choose to pay school for themselves and go beyond the public system. We see it in health. Growth in private health services is growing significantly outside public funding. It's privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2614	I notice that SV sees that the Left is the great enemy in the fight against poverty. I notice that what I thought would be a good thing by making suggestions, being rejected and turned off. I notice that the representative Karin Andersen is very sorry for everything you can't do in government, and I understand that. But I don't understand why you have to go into the left throat when we actually make suggestions. Now State Council Halvorsen has come to the hall. I was with the State Council Halvorsen at Youngstorget and discussed social assistance rates. Then I and the State Council, Halvorsen, agreed that we had to do something about the social assistance rates. If the representative Karin Andersen had learned that she must not only read statements, because then one can fall for the temptation to read the Soria Moria Declaration, where poverty is to be eliminated, but rather look at what practical policies have been implemented, she would have seen that it is actually that Oslo on social assistance rates lies above other municipalities. If one goes through all the budgetary decisions over the last five years, the budgetary settlement of the Left has led to an increase in the social aid rates in Oslo, because we think it is important, and because, when we mean something in an election campaign, we also have it afterwards. We believe that this reaches exactly those people who need to get some breathing space in order to get their lives straight. Poverty today is not as structured as it was in old social democratic systems. Poverty occurs in places and in families where you don't expect it, because something happens. Poverty is not so structured and there is no longer a class distinction, because it occurs in different places at different times. That means we have to have a composite tool. That's why we've suggested that the state do 25 things to reach it. If we have a few more good ideas, we can vote for them – you have to put them in the hall here, you have to come with them. We're going to do a lot of work to get it done. Everything we have proposed here has also been proposed in the budgets. All of this is related. We are responsible for this over time, and we are responsible for both the allocation of the money and the promotion of the proposals. If there are any more people who have good suggestions, please. This virtue was actually we who invited to, and it was we who promoted the fight against child poverty, as the first thing in this ageing period. Then we were told to wait, because there would be a message, there would be so many measures. Instead, we got a discussion task, a discussion task that was about removing differences is important for having a good, democratic society, which I fully agree with. That doesn't mean we can lean back and say that unfortunately there have been more poor children, but we can't care about that. Well, we have to care about that, and we have to take action to do that. We should rather discuss the measures than go into the strup of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2630	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2633	Let me just close to the end of the representative Skei Grande, which is that we should have used both the discussion of the matter and this debate to launch common strategies and joint measures to combat poverty. It was nice that the representatives from SV were given the opportunity to sort out what they call ‘private school’. Let me just emphasize that I used my post to talk about public school, where 98 pst. by the students leaving. It's right-wing busy. I'm recording that SV is most concerned with the two percent that go to private schools. For the record, there are more private schools today than they were in 2005. I'm not sorry, but it's not privatisation, there's issues of diversity in the offer. The representative Lars Egeland did not like that I pointed out that the SV has been doing this, is scraping at the top and not lifting the bucket. The reality is that you've scratched at the top and not lifted in your bench, because there are more poor children, because there are more homeless, because there are longer waiting times and longer queues for those who want drug treatment, and because you haven't been able to compensate for social differences in school. Finally, the Left presented its 25 proposals at the discharge meeting. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2644	Time's up, Sanner. The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2650	To the representative, Mr Sanner, it is not true that we have not lifted our feet. We've raised the minimum pensions up to twice the basic amount, there's not a few billion. We have raised the housing support, so that also lonely and many families who previously could not get housing support get it. We have introduced qualification programmes and qualification support. There are also a number of other measures, including: the disability benefit, which we treated just before Christmas. If it had been the way the right parties in Stortinget then thought, the benefit of several of those who are too sick to be in work would have been cut significantly. This is SV happy that we have received. So there's a lot left. I do not understand that the Left is a main enemy of poverty policy at all. But I can see that it had been...
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2659	Then the speaking time was over. One minute, quick!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2662	It went fast!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2667	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2681	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2690	Property taxes have been debated many times in Stortinget. It is very important because property taxes combined with progressive income taxes provide the ability principle of personal taxation. So this time there is a proposal from Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Jan Tore Sanner and Arve Kambe for research into the positive effects of removing the property tax. It's a brief attitude, it's ideological, and there's clear political distinctions between government and opposition. The parties to the Government shall assume that the proposal is not adopted and the proposal of the Right-wing Representatives shall be taken up by the opposition. The proposal states: ‘The government is asked to present a case during 2012 on the basis of an independent and research-based review of the positive effects of the elimination of taxes on wealth and its impact on Norwegian, private ownership, industrial and industrial development and jobs.’ The property tax is a tax on net equity in addition to a base deduction of DKK 750000 per taxpayer. The taxes on wealth were introduced in 1881 as a substitute for taxes on matriculate debt, or what is now called property taxes. And as I said, along with income taxes, it's the decisive means of ensuring the principle of taxation according to ability. Today, property taxes are essential to ensure this principle and property taxes are paid by individuals. The parties to the Government indicate that the taxes on wealth have changed over the years, so that there is now greater consistency between the individual's tax and real wealth and it has strengthened the redistributive characteristics of the property tax. However, some property items, in the first row of real estate, remain valued significantly lower in the property tax than for which they can be traded. The particularly low valuation of owner-occupied dwellings is justified by a desire to limit the overall taxation of owner-occupied dwellings. Historically, we have a very favourable taxing of owner-occupied dwellings, because it has been a social goal that as much as possible owns its own housing of the sober standard. It is a very important principle that has produced very good results. Furthermore, the situation is that property taxes exist to a very small extent internationally, but one has property taxes instead. The property tax differs from the property tax in that it is a tax on gross wealth, and does not include financial assets, which are widely distributed among the population, in Norway as elsewhere. Government parties see property tax as a much lower instrument compared to the purpose of the property tax. Ideologically, the followers and opponents of property taxes when we got it in 1881, they were the same as they are today. That's an interesting observation. If the property tax on quoted shares is removed, there would be no logical reason not to remove the property tax on all other financial investments, for example: unlisted shares, securities and deposits. Government lots are strong adherents to the property tax as a fundamental principle of ensuring taxes according to their capacity, and then with high deductions. There's something that ensures that you can have a robust economy to deal with the reality of life. At the same time, low equivalency rates on owner-occupied dwellings provide a tax incentive to acquire owner-occupied dwellings, and the majority see this as an important part of Norwegian housing tradition. At the same time, we would point out that low equivalency values on rental properties and dwellings owned by companies increase the demand for housing, because many want to invest in housing to reduce property taxes. So there's a clear distinction between living in owner-occupied dwellings and investing in housing. In this way, low equivalency contributes to increasing the demand for housing as an investment object, and this contributes to higher housing prices, which are negative, among other things. for first-time start-ups. As I said, the setting is marked by a clear disagreement between the government parties and the opposition. It's an important setting. It explains basically for a good time in the future what the positions are. The argument is clear, and people can choose between different parties in terms of the follow-up of taxes by individual ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2714	I'm not going to add a lot of substance, because it has been well explained by the case-rapporteur, just saying that in addition to a number of debates in the last big period in connection with the roll-call elections – the government parties won the election, and the wealth tax was part of the important change of words – discussed this thoroughly. We have debated this in several budgetary contexts after the elections, at the latest in the financial debate; we have debated the wealth tax during the evaluation of the tax reform last year; we have discussed it in connection with various Document 8 proposals, not least from the Right-wing Representatives, and have raised it in a number of oral and written questions and interplies. Not enough of that, the Financial Committee now has two proposals that differ in their scope for the liquidation of the property tax. This probably indicates that most people in this room have come up with an opinion about where you are. In a number of debates on behalf of the Workers' Party, I have explained our views. And I'm not among those who think that wealth taxes or anything else is a black and white question; it has advantages and disadvantages, weaknesses and strengths. But at the end of the day, you have to make a political opinion about what you think is the balance between distribution, income to the community and the creativity of business and individuals, and we have then landed on what is our position. I feel that at some point we have to agree that this is the world, that is the political fronts, and this is probably an example of how to enter into a debate on something that is really about something else: for or against and how the wealth tax can be. That is why I do not intend to contribute further to the debate, except to point out that this has been debated a number of times, and that we also have two substantive proposals in the committee. Finally, it would be tempting to ask: if we are going to investigate these effects, will those who are proposing this also wait for what they think about the position of the wealth tax in the two proposals that are now in the financial committee, or will we explain what is now in the positions? I'm going to tip it off that's the last one, and then we're roughly the same distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2725	The representative Mikalsen is absolutely right that we've discussed for and against property taxes many times in this room, and we're going to keep doing that. That's what politics is, and that's why we're here, to tell each other and everyone out there why our solutions are the best for most people. We cannot recommend to others that they stop debating anything because we have already decided. It'll be a little pointless. So it's to hope that you can gradually get a slightly different view of things, both one and the other, if you get more information. And that's what this proposal is about. The proposals we are going to debate later, about the wealth tax, are on working capital, and then it becomes interesting to hear what, for example. The representative Lundteg believes so, when he cannot use other excuses for why he does not want to remove the property tax. The case rapporteur in the previous case, about the distribution message, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, started his speech by saying that since 2008 we have been working on what creates differences and how we are going to combat differences. So we have had a working group for four years to see what creates differences, but we are not willing to work for a single week to look at what generates income, what this proposal is all about – whether we are going to do research on the positive and negative aspects of taxes on wealth. This is a good proposal from the Right, which we naturally support. It's a strange attitude to say that you've already decided, before you might want to start a research, so I hope you can have a different attitude. I can refer to suggestions from the organisation BetterTax – they are not such that they will always have lower taxes, but they will have the best possible and most sensible tax and the best possible natural taxation, so that they can generate growth in Norwegian business. They have a headline that says, 'Rejecting knowledge of their own policy!' And I think that's really quite descriptive, that the government refuses to get knowledge of its own policy because they've decided, as Torgeir Micaelsen just said, many years ago, and that's what they're going to do. I think that's a little wise, and I hope that the government will come up with different thoughts. Otherwise, it is certain that the government will be replaced next autumn, so at least we will have to get more speed in Norwegian business and all the entrepreneurs and employers out there who have to pay taxes on the assets of their companies, which then tend to go with a deficit or do not have real values. I am convinced – and I am convinced that the Minister of Finance also believes – that companies such as Aass Bryggeri in Drammen should not pay taxes on wealth when they do not make money, they should not pay taxes on wealth from what they have invested in machines and equipment in their company. But at least I can mention some positive aspects by removing the property tax – there are certainly some negative aspects by removing the property tax, and we'll get those red-green ones to say something about. But what this proposal says is that you have to research it, so that you can find both the negative and the positive. But to take some of the positive sides – and then I refer from the comments: ‘– It stimulates debt build-up and penalties for saving. – It discriminates against Norwegian private ownership in favour of foreign or state ownership, thereby making jobs less secure, by losing businesses to capital even in single years with a deficit. – It weakens Norwegian ownership by discrimination between Norwegian and foreign shareholders. – It weakens business by limiting the access to capital of those parts of the economy that depend on access to private Norwegian capital. – It weakens foundations because the property tax has to be paid on the basis of future earnings, regardless of persistent deficits. - It's losing the districts of capital. – It distorts the investments from productive value creation to tax-favorised placements.’» There are at least some consequences of the property tax. I'm sure there's more that you haven't come up with. But the government won't figure that out. Then I have a little bit to the Right in the end, even though the Right has promoted this proposal: the Right was sitting with the Minister of Finance in the last period and did not make a blow to remove the property tax. But they're very eager to do it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2759	In view of what is going on out there, it is with great wonder that I hear the case rapporteur and the central party representative Lundtigen make contributions to the Chamber. It is possible that double communication is twice as good for some, but it is a demanding exercise. The head of the Central Party and the State Council, Liv Signe Navarsete, was at Aass Brewery last December and said that the Central Party would eliminate property taxes on working capital, and that there was a majority on the Stortinget for it. With this responsibility, she transferred a national policy consistent with the bulk of the population to her party traps in Stortinget. It's just to note that they don't take that responsibility. No, the whole turnaround is quite the opposite, and when the case rapporteur also says that the setting reflects an ideological attitude towards the wealth tax, and it is said that one is ‘strongly dependent on the wealth tax as a fundamental principle of the tax system in order to ensure that taxes are taxed according to their ability’, the confusion must become total. This is quite eloquent. The government has doubled the tax on working capital to 6-8 billion. kr since 2005, mainly by removing the stock discount. Outside, hopes are created in what we in the Right believe is on the way to becoming a depleted private Norwegian ownership, while in the Stortinget they argue the opposite. The reality is that the central party in government has made sure that 6-8 billion. kr each year disappears from the hands of this ownership and from new risk projects in Norway. The centre party and the majority also try to argue that the property tax is a tax on individuals and not companies. At the same time, party leader Navarsete is quoted several times as saying that it is perceived as unfair that owners have to hold the company for capital in order to cover the property tax when it goes in deficit. Let's say that the property tax is a tax on Norwegian enterprises and jobs, and the Center Party supports it. The right hand document shows that there are some developments in Norway that should concern the government parties. Firstly, the ownership structure in Norway is changing. Foreign owners and the state increase their share at the expense of Norwegian private owners. Secondly, Norwegian households also have a relatively weak financial position, and we read in the paper that the loan demand does not seem to decrease. On the contrary, financial supervision has introduced so stringent equity requirements in the housing market that we risk young people and weak groups not being able to establish themselves, and new social divisions will arise. I find it amazing that all of this does not concern a red-green government. History may be sad to explain in the future. The right has this time asked nothing but that we acquire knowledge about a tax that Right considers to be very destructive for what will carry the welfare society into the future. In order to give a hint back to the Progress Party: The representative Tybring-Gjedde took our whole list from the document, so I won't repeat it. I can also answer the small challenge that the wealth tax was not removed in the previous period. It was because there were a number of other taxes that it was even more important to get rid of, among other things. the investment tax. And you just didn't get that far. At the same time, it was an agreement – the tax reform. When the dividend tax came, the property tax would disappear. Unfortunately, there was a government change between us, and we did not implement that change. But now the wealth tax is a priority. 1st@item: inlistbox In short, it indicates that Apple could not have been owned by the Nordics. A Norwegian founder couldn't have done the job Steve Jobs did with Apple if we could dream about it. He couldn't afford that. Sitting and waiting for 15 years in a company that is valued equivalent to Apple without any dividends is simply impossible for the Nordics. I've got a lot of stories from the Nordics who own businesses with foreigners, and they're pretty confused when the foreigner doesn't want dividends. They'd rather use it to develop the company. That's what the North wants, too. But the tax system forces them to either sell themselves out of the company, or they have to finance elsewhere. The centre party – of all people – should know how important the local ownership of the many small businesses around the country is to maintain activity, housing and development in the whole country. The party leader gave marshes on Dagsrevyen on 13 December last year, but the troops in Stortinget have deserted.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2778	Can the President reason that Gunnar Gundersen's representative intended to address his proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2781	I did.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2786	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2789	It is difficult to debate this matter without reflecting on the debate in the previous case, which was about equalising differences, which was about those who have the most – those who have the greatest ability to contribute to the community – paying relatively more than those who have nothing or have little. If you agree with that approach – there may be reason to suggest it, because all parties agreed in the previous case that a policy of balancing differences, if there was any substance in it, should be at least a proposal to investigate alternative taxes that helped those who have the most resources – those who have the highest income, those who have the most to contribute – to receive taxes as an alternative to the taxes on wealth. I am not looking at that proposal on the table. No, Norway is the only country in Western Europe that since 2005 has managed to reverse the trend and reduce inequalities. This trend has been reversed in Norway for the first time since 1989. At the same time — while Norway did this — differences increased dramatically under the bourgeois governments of Denmark and Sweden. This was due, inter alia, to: that we got a fairer wealth tax. While Norway had before 2006 a tax system in which the richest paid a smaller share of their income in taxes than others, the introduction of dividend taxes and the conversion of property taxes have led to their paying a higher share of their income in taxes than all others. It is the introduction of a fairer tax system! The richest – the ones with over 100 million. kr in wealth - has increased the tax by more than 3 million. kr. At the same time, we have reduced the tax for those who don't have that much. In 2005, 1.2 million people paid taxes on wealth. Now this figure is almost halved, and about 900,000 people pay less taxes on wealth than in 2005. The conversion of property taxes and other tax changes has helped to make Norway fairer. I'm very proud of that as an SV and a member of the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2800	It's a little difficult to get a clear idea of what the government and government parties really think about the property tax. The Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister are initially reasonably clear in their defence of the excellence of the wealth tax, based solely on the allocation of resources – and, in a price-effective way, on public finances. At the same time, however, unclear signals are sent from other government councils, e.g. Minister of Agriculture Giske, Minister of Agriculture Breck, Minister of Fisheries Berg-Hansen and Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Navarsete, said that the taxes on wealth have a significant negative impact on Norwegian business, not least on businesses based in the districts, as the representative Gundersen also referred to. The left considers, not surprisingly, that the property tax has significant adverse effects on Norwegian business and, as it appears today, is reactive in stimulating widespread private ownership in Norwegian business, as the Left wishes. The government has also made other restrictions in this area, so that it has become less profitable for Norwegian private owners to invest in Norwegian enterprises and jobs in relation to state and foreign companies. In the view of the Left, this must obviously have some negative effects – however, to what extent we do not know. If they turn out to be small, we're ready to admit that we were wrong, but we don't know. That is precisely why we are asking the government and government parties today to participate in an ‘independent and research-based review’ of the impact of the property tax on Norwegian, private ownership, on Norwegian industry development and, not least, in districts and workplaces. If someone in the government parties seems to have just heard this message before, it's exactly the same as what the wish is being expressed by LO's leader, Roar Flöthen, but this is one of the few areas he obviously has not got through to the government. What does it mean that we shouldn't have such an independent review? It's hard for me to understand. In the position we are now dealing with, the majority do not argue against, but partly comes up with historical descriptions of the property tax, on the one hand with the usual mantra on taxes by ability – where the property tax is often an example of the opposite – and on the other with a problematisation of what is working capital, and not. The latter is a problematisation of the left and, as is often the case, an independent and research-based review of the effects of removing taxes on wealth in different areas, linked to business and employment. The big question we are left with is: what is so dangerous about making an independent review of the effects of the property tax on Norwegian industry and Norwegian ownership of Norwegian jobs? After hearing the debate so far, it still seems very unclear what the arguments against are, but hopefully the Minister of Finance, who is the next speaker, can explain to us why a government that itself claims that investing in knowledge is important, will not be investing in knowledge in this particular area. Should there be any doubt, the Left wholeheartedly supports the proposal from the Right for an independent and research-based review of the effects of removing the property tax, even if the conclusion of such a review would show that the Left is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2818	As Micasen's representative pointed out, this is a relatively well-discussed topic. I expect, since there are already new proposals in the Financial Committee, that we will continue the discussion – and discussion is absolutely right, to say so. But it's important to try to bring the discussion forward, and I don't see anything new about what kind of positions you're going to take, and what you're going to do about the matter in the future. I do not think there is a need for a new review, as the proposers here see fit. In the evaluation report, which Stortinget addressed a year ago, we went through the tax reform of 2005 and 2006, including a review of the wealth tax. There is no reason to hide that property taxes have weaknesses, as may other taxes. But I believe that the matter is well-lit to be able to make the decisions you want to make with regard to the further fate of the property tax. The property tax has some of the same characteristics as other taxes: it gives revenue to the community. In addition, the wealth tax – which is an important point, and which relates to the discussion we had in the previous case – has a good distribution effect. The effect on the distribution of taxes on wealth has been strengthened since 2005. In fact, taxes on wealth help to ensure that those who have the highest wealth, those who are – to use the term – ‘capitalists’, actually also contribute more according to their ability than if they had not been a wealth tax. What becomes an interesting question — and neither in this context nor in other contexts by the proposers — is what should replace these revenues and replace the distribution effect of the taxes on wealth. In order to illustrate only that, if a tax on wealth was removed, the thousands of the highest assets in Norway would receive an average tax relief of about 3.5 million. kr. It would, in my view, dramatically change the distribution effects. What is going to replace this, if one sees that there are other tax species that are going to have a similar distribution? So it's true, as the majority of you say, that the corporations themselves are not paying the property tax. They're the ones who own the businesses. Of course, we can discuss that relationship, but what has to be at the bottom is that profitable and good companies will also generate – as it is called in the professional language – opportunities for owners to both get dividends and pay the tax. Then the government will continue to make the wealth tax better and fairer. We're going to get back to that in the annual budgets, as we've done in the last few years. Here, too, the effects of taxes on wealth on business are central. It's not often, but once in a while, I totally agree with what the representative Tybring-Gjedde says, that one had the opportunity for four years, through a majority of the Storing here, to abolish the wealth tax. It didn't happen. Then I also hear what the representative Gundersen says. But it is that if the will to do what one says one should do is present, one gets it done. But I find that it was not possible to do so by a bourgeois majority in the Grand Duchy. On the other hand, this government has halved the share of taxpayers who pay taxes on wealth. I think it's a pretty good trick, to say it that way. That's a very clear result. This is the case, as the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen also said, that about 900,000 have either been completely removed from the property tax or paid less property tax today than they did in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2837	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2840	Both the Minister of Finance and I make good, 750,000–800,000 – the Minister of Finance may make a million. We both pay taxes on income. Let's say I choose to spend my entire income on chores and customs and clothes, while the Minister of Finance is careful and saves some of his income – and we do it this way over many years. If the property of the Minister of Finance exceeds NOK 750,000, we're in a situation where he has to pay taxes on wealth. Then, in other words, his accuracy and saving over the years have punished himself, while my consumption of aunt and aunt has been profitable. We have paid the same income tax. Does the Minister for Finance consider it a fair principle that he who is sober and saves must pay taxes on wealth because he has not used up his salary?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2847	I see it in a slightly different way than the representative Tybring-Gjedde, because I pay my tax with joy, both the income tax and the property tax, to the municipality of Ringzag. When the debt of the house etc. I will also pay my property tax with pleasure. And then, to justify the point of view of the representative Tybring-Gjedde, it is asked what he has spent the money on, but I will not rule out that any of the money is chargeable, so at least he has given a certain amount of money to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2854	I was actually going to use the line on the evaluation message, because it was a relatively weak review of the property tax in relation to the issues we have raised in the document. But then the Minister of Finance couldn't fail to raise himself on this progressing party slip. I think it's pretty rude of the Council of State to accuse Right of what we see as a breach of promise by the new government in 2005. It was a tax reform that lay there, and we realized that we agreed that when that dividend tax came, the wealth tax was to go away. I believe that was also confirmed in the evaluation message. I have not had the opportunity to look up and find out, but I would ask the Council of State to confirm: Was there an agreement that balances the imposition of dividend taxes against the removal of the property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2861	The President would point out that the term ‘freight’ does not belong to the parliamentary terms that are allowed to be used in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2864	My point was basically that if you have a majority in the Grand Duchy, and one is willing to use the majority to achieve the goals you set, it is fully possible, and it would also have been possible before one arrived at 2005 – for the government that then set – to propose to remove the wealth tax and get a majority for it in the Grand Duchy. The reason why I'm surprised about it is that when you look at the attitude of this proposal, and look at the ‘landlock’ that wealth tax imposes on society in different areas, I'm very surprised that it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2871	Yes, it is possible that surprises the Minister of Finance, but from our side it seemed obvious that the dividend tax was to be collected and the wealth tax was to be paid. That was exactly what you wanted to introduce, so that the distribution effect of the property tax would not be too distorted – that is, you were willing to agree to a new tax to get rid of the property tax. There was nothing of it, and we believe, once again, that it was a breach of agreement. After all, it was removed 25 billion. tax during that period, and there were other taxes that stood in the queue first to be removed. But now we see significant adverse effects of the existence of property taxes, especially on the local, ideal ownership of small enterprises. Isn't that a concern of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2878	I refer to the answer I gave on that reply, and I register here that yes, it is an honest thing to admit that there were other tax concessions that were more important than the property tax. It's a very honest thing, but my point is that if you wanted to remove the property tax, you would have had the majority. However, it is likely that one also found that it was not so easy to remove the property tax, because the property tax has some effects other than simply ingesting the crown and ear — it also has an important distributive effect. Furthermore, when you look at the results of the Norwegian economy – unemployment rates, employment growth, production figures – and compare this with countries we have around us in Europe, you are doing well in Norway, even with a property tax of 14 billion. kr per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2885	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2890	I register that Lundteigen has left the building as rapporteur of the case. I would also have done that if I were him, because what the Central Party has said about the property tax was not to be found in Lundtigen's contributions today. It was not to be found in the comments of the rapporteur-general of the Centre Party. It was actually a warm defence for the wealth tax, which also involves active capital. The proposal from the Right today is actually an invitation to the forces of the LO system, to the forces of the working party system, in the government and others who will look at how to get either a better wealth tax or how to possibly eliminate it. So there's no willingness to look at it. I also want to address both Tybring-Gjeddes and the Minister of Finance. The finance minister says that the right had the chance to remove the property tax the last time we were in government, and we did. You started the first four years of removing 25 billion. kr. It equals one and a half times the property tax, it, over a four-year period. In the evaluation of the tax reform, State Council Johnsen itself writes the following: ‘The Landevik II Government followed up the Tax Committee’s proposal to reduce the property tax for the purpose of liquidation, but not to be matched by increased taxes on property.’ Bingo! It wasn't Johnsen who said bingo – it was me. That's where the government actually tells me that the Bondevik II government did just that, you started this. It was promoted that the wealth tax should be halved by 2007, half of which was taken in 2006, and then lifted by the Prime Minister’s predecessors, who are now at his side. In addition, you remove both step 2 and class 2 of the property tax, and some of it has been followed up by the government after it took over. Both what Tybring-Gjede said, and what the finance minister said, was that when the dividend tax was introduced, the logical consequence for the Right – and hopefully, we thought, for the Stortinget – was to eliminate the wealth tax. That logic followed the Bondevik II government. So I would also say to Tybring-Gjedde, who said several times that the Right had the chance: well, the Advance Party also had the chance in three of the four budgetary agreements that they were on, without us from the Right discovering that the Advance Party had some difficulty removing the property tax. Now I register that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left largely agree to do this. Then we have a good foundation. Then we get to hope that we get a better research on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2911	Without prejudice to the fact that I cannot now go back and check the documents that were in place in 2005 when we made the state budget for 2006, and would introduce the tax settlement that the Stortinget had agreed – of which the other two government parties were part, but which SV was not part – it was about introducing tax on dividends and making taxes on labour and taxes on capital more equal. It was an act that meant that taxes on labour income were reduced and taxes on investment income increased. We had quite a few rounds around this because of course it meant that some of the high incomes were taxed, for which there were few policy arguments for distribution, but some structural policy arguments for. A very important step for the red-green government was that the distribution challenges of introducing the tax reform as it lay could be – by providing better wealth tax – to ensure that, in sum, a good distribution profile was achieved. The property tax was not part of the tax settlement. The wealth tax was used as a very clear distribution policy grip. We increased the bottoms considerably through several rounds, we filled the tax gap. The sum of the changes in the introduction of taxes on dividends, the tightening of taxes on capital and changes in taxes on wealth have resulted in the richest people in Norway, who paid about a quarter. 10 pst. on average, tax on its income in 2005, now pays taxes by capacity, as other groups in society. In total, this has been a very good distribution exercise, and the property tax was not part of the tax settlement that the Storting had entered into.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2918	In sum, I think we're going to say that we're left with a pinching operation against private ownership in Norway. It is a reality, and the rich are always pushed forward. It's a very popular picture, because there are very few who feel sorry for them, or who want to defend them. But with the pulley, the ownership goes to all the local businesses around Norway that are affected by the wealth tax, where the rich are used, to create and maintain the right images. I still have the benefit of being on a company visit with a red-green politician, who defends against an owner who is running a small business with 10–15–20 employees out in his local environment, that the wealth tax is available to hit them. That's what we're left with. I think it was justified to nuance that exact picture a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2925	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2941	I have a goal and a desire for more girls in the basement and more guys in the health jacket. The Government Action Plan on Gender Equality also expresses the desire to stimulate more untraditional career choices for girls and boys, both before continuing education and before higher education. It is an objective that more occupations and attitudes should have a more balanced gender balance. I think this is very good, but I think there are some steps we have to take to achieve it. I will frame five important actions that I have set up: I think we need to have an equal opportunities officer in each county municipality. We must have projects with role models where young school students receive professional information. We need to facilitate network construction. We need a higher level of competence among consultants and teachers. And letter should give study competence. I think it's important that boys and girls get a very untraditional profession, because if we get a less gender-based labour market, we get a better working environment. We'll give our youth twice as many real opportunities to use their talent. There will be more equality and more even income between the sexes. And I think it's actually going to raise the status of a professional. I'll take some numbers: in the car and electric, it's about 3-4 pst. girls. In the health sector, it is approx. 9 pst. Goods. In construction, the man proportion is 99,1 p.m., and in mechanics it is 98,9 p.m. men. We have to do something about this. Therefore, I was so happy when the action plan, which is an incredibly important tool, came, but we are forced to follow it up. I often wonder why things are going so slowly. When it comes to equality, it can often be expressed in several stages, if you look at it over several years: first, there is laughter, then ignoring, then fighting, and then finally it becomes like something of course, and no one thinks that once was against. But when it comes to the sex-shared labour market, I'm not sure what kind of phase we're in. In the 1980s, when I went to the professional ball and later to the engineering ball, it was a pretty big focus on choosing untraditionally – and many took the chance and did it. But then there were bad times in the 1990s, and then all of a sudden it was no longer done – from the authorities – and the focus on it disappeared. Then the equality officer in the county municipality also disappeared. Now we're more traditional than ever. We are on the verge when it comes to a sex-shared labour market. Everyone is certain that it is an important matter, but it goes very slowly. When we talk about equality, we often talk about women in leadership positions, women in the ASA regime, women who are abused, paper or men in kindergarten. All of this is very important, but fortunately, most women are not being abused. Nor is it that most women enter the ASA regime. Therefore, I think it is important that we talk about equality for those who want to take a vocational training course. Let it be said at once: I have great respect for all women who do a great job in the health sector. Nevertheless, I believe that in a few years' time when we have a major shortage of health professionals, this is not just the responsibility of the young girls. This is a responsibility that both women and men should share. Then more good people have to choose a health profession. And there's something positive here, because in the newspaper of March 22nd this year we could read the headline "Good Boom on Health and Social." After the Health Directorate started a recruitment campaign in 2009, the application for guys has increased by 70 pst., which is very positive. I want to explain why I think the five measures are important. It applies to the equal opportunities managers in each county municipality, as I mention in my interpellation. In this work, a lot of people depend on fires. No one has the overall responsibility for this. There's a lot of exciting happening in those states where there's a fireflies. Where they're more traditional, it happens very little. High Skeeie, director of the Equality Committee, said to the Newspaper: ‘It turns out that where there are people who are interested in integrating equality into their work, they do. Is the place where there is no one interested, well then they don't." I thought that it should be taken into account and that the county councils should be given an equal responsibility. I think we should get a project on role models, with professional information for juvenile students. It is that when choosing education, role models and own experiences or experiences are extremely important. It's often the way your friends choose, something you already know, or what your parents/sisters have chosen. Therefore, we must ensure that both boys and girls are familiar with different occupations and have the opportunity to meet representatives of their own sex through the provision of organised by the county and secondary schools. We also need to facilitate network construction. I think that the county and the secondary schools should provide networks for both girls and boys who have chosen untraditionally at the professional level. Networks are important for those who have chosen untraditionally and are a resource bank as role models in information work. We need empowerment among consultants and teachers. This is what I think I have to be both for teachers and for consultants both in the youth school and in the secondary school. It is also important to work actively to remove the gender stamp through cooperation between the schools and the industries. Then I have said that I think a letter should give study competence. Often we hear parents say to their youth: Take general education, so there is no obstacle to what you can do further. I believe that if a course letter also gave competence for further study, it would be easier to start with a course. As it is today, a great many of the vocational training courses jump to take general education. I believe that increasing the status of the profession and improving the gender balance are two aspects of the same matter. If the profession is to appear more attractive to both sexes, it is important that this valuation becomes visible and concrete. This was proposed by the Karlsen Committee. Today, it turns out that for those who have gone this Y-way, i.e. from a professional without study competence to engineering training, there is a far greater proportion who complete and exist than in an engineering training based on the usual pre-school competence. Then I would like to say that it is important to continue training and higher education. NTNU has been running a very good project for many years to get more women into civil engineering education – and they have achieved good results. I also know that in Sørlanden has a job with a very good project. A project that I know very well is the project «Wives in the Car and Electro». I just have to say that I have three girls who are electricians, and one who is a bus mechanic – they're in the gallery now – it's nice to be able to say that. The ‘Wives in car and electric’ project is mentioned in the action plan as an important measure. This project also seemed to me to be a role project to get more guys into typical girls' professions. The girls in Bodø who have participated in the project, on their own initiative, have begun to invite girls on the youth ball to their own day that they call girls learning girls. In the municipality of Oslo, the subject of «educational selection» has started with a day of girls in electrical and technical subjects for youth schools to seek further. It's also got a lot of interest. This has happened after a test project that you have been running in Subway for a few years, one of which has also had very positive experiences. I'll take a couple of quotes from some of these girls. As Lise says, I was invited to an experience day especially for girls at an electro- and mechanical workshop at Secondary Secondary Secondary School – then I decided to search for electro. Other says: I have a father and two bridges that are electricians, but I am the first to have been train electricians. These girls are good role models. On Monday this week I met four girls who turned the car on Toyota. Kristin with a letter, Anja who would take a letter now in the spring, and Julie and Anja who were out of school – good girls who liked their job. I asked a little about what was important to them, and they were very clear: networks, the work environment and role models they were very busy with. But what also came out was that Toyota didn't have this as a project, but as a whole strategy, for they're going to make money, and they want it the best. They felt that the girls they got into the workshop were more interested, they were more competent, and they were more mature. The companies are positive, the youth is positive – now I think the public should follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e2995	I would like to thank the representative, Gunvor Eldegard, for the opportunity to address this issue, which, I would say, is largely given too little attention. I think we might be able to work together to make sure that our ambitions increase in this field. Promoting equality in education and training is an important educational policy objective. We know that gender-based educational and vocational choices are among the main causes of systematic differences between women and men in working life and elsewhere in society. So there's no small question we're discussing here. Providing everyone with good opportunities to take education is a key strategy for developing the Norwegian welfare community. Several have to complete education to get to work and have a safe place in the workplace. There is also a need to focus on gender-based educational choices. In the last decades, women have taken on a number of higher education courses that were previously man-dominated, but at the same time, we do not see similar changes for men's choices in higher education, nor for women's and men's choices in the professions. For example, in 2010 we will find 87.5 pst. girls in health and social work and 95,2 pst. Boys in electrophage. Labour needs in the future are high, especially in women’s dominated professions related to health and care. It is therefore particularly important to increase the recruitment of these professions. The aim is not to have equal numbers of women and men in all professions, but to break the visible and invisible barriers that prevent girls and boys from taking untraditional educational choices. It's quite right, as the interpellant says, that the traditional booths girls and boys think in, makes them only pick one half of the possibilities they actually have. By expanding the possibilities and making girls and boys choose gender-untraditional, we open up for talents that we would otherwise miss. The labour market needs as good a workforce as possible, and when the recruitment base is limited to one-half of the population, it is quite obvious that we are missing out on some talents, and some talents are missing out on what the best people would like. This means that a sluggish recruitment basis leads to the loss of skilled labour by all sectors and sectors. So what do we know about the background for girls and boys' educational choices? Buland, etc. has written a report called Gender in the school’s advisory work — a forgotten theme? It shows that parents, followed by friends, are the most influential people in youth life in choosing education and profession. In a survey of counsellors on gender-divided educational choices, for example: 59 pst. by those who respond that they agree with the claim that ‘the influence of parents leads to traditional choice of occupations on the basis of sex’. International research also shows that both parents and teachers often have preconceived perceptions of what girls and boys are good at, and that this affects both learning outcomes and the choice of subjects for further education. Some studies may suggest that girls and boys have perceptions of what the different genders are good at, and it can shape their career choices. A more realistic and positive image of your own skills could then contribute to less gender differences in the choice of subjects later in the course of education. Findings in the study Young school students – motivation, mastering and results show that most girls consider a further course of education at a university or college, while most boys reflect on vocational education. Young people who wish to pursue vocational education are distinguished by lower school motivation and weaker grades. For students to make good choices, they depend on good information about the workplace and on the ability to get good advice. Some professions are known to students through parents, community and media — other professions are more invisible. There are also gender differences with regard to young people's knowledge of the different professions. For example, it turns out that more girls than boys know what a nurse does, while boys have a better overview of craftsmen. But this isn't a static picture. Last Thursday, in the newspaper last week, a reader could read about a happy development in the number of boys applying for health and social education. In four years, the number of boys applying for this programme area has increased by 70 pst. Since 2008, the number of boys in the first year of health and social education as their first choice has increased from 812 to 1,383, according to fresh figures from the Directorate of Education. The figures from the Directorate also show that a high proportion continues in the second year. In the same article, Helga Aune, a post-doctor of education law at the University of Oslo, who has written a doctorate on part-time work, says that the new figures ‘may indicate that the boys experience greater freedom to choose for interest, and not on the basis of expectations and gender stereotypes in working life’. And she goes on to say, ‘When the frameworks are not as narrow as before, it will also be easier to see what opportunities exist.’ The project ‘Women in Car and Electro’, to which the Eldegard interpellant refers, will also provide us with experience of more systematic attempts to develop a training and working environment that makes women find the industry attractive. This is also how they will be able to keep women who are already in the industry. In the evening post last week, a reader could read that the County of Oslo and Akershus now propose to write ‘daily manager’ instead of ‘rulers’ in the job advertisements to make the kindergartens attractive to men — they are obviously simple-minded, these men, whom we would like to lure into kindergartens. In this context, an emphasis is also placed on the fact that the way in which the profession is referred to may have an impact on whether women or men consider it to be a current profession for them. Posts containing words that we know are important for men's professional choices, such as «development opportunities», «management», «personal responsibility», «professional environment» and «guidance responsibilities» are also raised here. But how should schools in general work to do the framework for what women and men can work with, less needy – if that's what it takes to change gender balance? It is clarified in the Regulation that individual students should be assisted in developing and exploiting their resources, regardless of traditional gender roles. This is then a responsibility that each school must follow. In this context, advice that encourages young people to think untraditionally becomes important. But what do we know about how this is followed up in practice at the individual school? SINTEF conducted a survey in 2010. Researchers asked if schools focused on measures to facilitate young people to make non-traditional choices in their choice of occupation and education according to gender. About 33.5 pst. they have a special focus on this, while 55,9 pst. they say they have no focus on it. In addition, the ‘non-know’ category is relatively high. This is against the fact that the awareness of gender and occupational choices is too low. When e.g. 10 pst. answers that they don't know if it's a focus, we can assume that if it were, it's not very clear in the day-to-day work. This is where we have to make a change. Advisors need to make a greater contribution to opening the room for action for what individual students, he or she, may have of interests and talents. When we see that counsellors in school pay little attention to the gender perspective, it is important to look at the provision of further education available to advisers. This was made visible in the Quality Competence strategy from 2009, while the recommended competence criteria were sent to the municipalities and counties. Prior to that time, local assessments were the basis for providing skills development to consultants. The national continuing training offer, Quality Competence, consists of different offers of 30 or 60 credits. In the 2010/2011 school year, 149 advisers participated in the courses of 30 study credits. In the 2011/2012 school year, 122 advisers participate in the corresponding offers. In the case of continuing education, school owners have reported through the reporting system REV that 2,193 teachers participated in continuing training in counselling in 2010. The gender-divided educational choices and the multicultural perspective are given varying emphasis as a separate theme in the field of continuing education. No specific guidance has been given in any areas specified within the scope of advice. However, with regard to the structure and theme of the advisory study, the Education Directorate has confidence that institutions cover these areas. A good example of how this can be done is at the University of Agder, where they have drawn up multicultural and gender roles, gender roles and gender-specific professional choices as two of several focus areas. They have good experience in integrating the topics directly related to working life and career guidance. We have several measures in this area, which the interpellant has already been involved in. I want to end by saying that we're not satisfied with the results we've got, because we see that girls and boys choose very traditional. It's not that a school can eliminate the influence that parents have, or that friends have, and that's very important here, but when we're going to review the Knowledge promise and make a big message about this, I think that the gender perspective also needs to have a special place.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3057	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have to say, I'm very happy that we're just a few things about the objectives. I believe that, through our work in the future, we will also find some measures to be taken. I very much agree with what the minister says, that by doing something about this we open up to talent that we could have missed. It's incredibly important. The labour market needs as good a workforce as possible, and then one needs to recruit from much more than half of the population. But I notice she says 55.9 pst. of the schools do not focus on facilitating that young people can make untraditional choices by gender, and that 10 pst. responds “do not know”. I am very pleased that the minister says that this has to be done. Here we are also very few, because that's not the way we can have it. Information films from the Education Directorate are also very good. New technology is positive. I very much agree that the school alone cannot change society, and that everyone has a responsibility. Nevertheless, I believe that we need to have some measures – such as, in my introduction, gender equality managers, role model projects, facilitating networking, ensuring that it is a good contribution from the public, as well as empowerment, and that one is given the opportunity to further study by letter. The Financial Committee has just been on its way to Singapore. One of the visits we made there was to a yard called Keppel, which has 20 000 added. One of our representatives asked if there were many women there. They said that on a world-wide basis, 30 pst. by the engineers, women. The female part of the dress was increasing. I was positively surprised. It's good that something happens in more places. New technologies also make it much easier for networking. I am now a member of three Facebook groups, called ‘Wives in technical professions in Bodø, Nordland’, ‘Wives in non-traditional professions’ and ‘Wives in Car and Elektro’. If I'm a little impatient and I think things are going a little bit slow, I'll click on one of these pages. There I can read comments from these girls. A nice comment that stood here the day, was about Kaisa, who took a letter and was an electrician on 8 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3070	I think there is much we can do in this area in terms of information about professions, and in terms of better guidance and advice. But I think maybe we should also think about how we can recruit and keep those who choose untraditionally. If you're one and one – one single girl among 100 car mechanics, or one lonely man among 100 nurses or health and social workers – we know that we're going to strive to hold on to them. We know that from kindergarten. I thought we had a big problem in kindergartens in Norway because we have 10 pst. men among the kindergarten workers, until I met the Swedes, who say they have 2 pst. men. So something we have managed to do that the Swedes have not been able to do. What the kindergartens do that can recruit and keep men is to make sure that they recruit more people at once, so that it's an environment. I've heard the same thing from many girls who work in untraditional, human professions – that it's lonely to be the only girl, and that it matters that there's a few more there, so there's a slightly larger mix in the environments. So I think it's crucial that the girls who might choose untraditionally in the education process also see that there are attractive jobs for them, and that they, for example, are. not every day must justify why they have chosen untraditionally. It's relatively tiring. So there's one more thing, and that's that regardless of whether there's girls or boys we want to recruit for health care -- and we know that we're going to need a lot in those areas ahead -- we have to make sure that we're able to do all the jobs, so that we can support ourselves, provide a family, get loans from the bank and all this, once you've got through the education and are out in a profession. Of course, it is a major challenge, especially for the municipalities that are now getting a patchwork floor to go through various small job breaks, and where adults – most ladies – have to get in line to get extra guards. These professions are not going to be particularly attractive for men, who can choose from many other professions where they would not be able to offer small job breaks. I think role models are incredibly important. I believe that to the extent that we are able to make visible women who have chosen untraditionally, and men who have chosen untraditionally, it is of great importance. It is true, as the representative Eldegard points out, that education choices in Norway are more traditional than in many countries with lower female participation than what we have. That means that this is completely possible to do something about and get inspired by. It's about making sure to keep a wide horizon.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3083	The vision of the Workers' Party in terms of school is that each should be the best version of itself on the basis of its own talent, work effort, interests and abilities, regardless of economic, social and ethnic backgrounds, and regardless of gender. It's not like that today. Too many girls and too many boys choose traditionally, and a lot indicates that this is on the ground resting, as we've already heard. We can't expect a gender revolution with the first. That is why I would like to thank Eldegard interpellantly for addressing this important topic for debate. We have already heard two good debates about this with many good points, but I think it is important to discuss this anyway, because it is about attitudes. The only way to combat attitudes is to challenge them. I feel that the representative Eldegard is doing this in an excellent way, and I know that this is something she has been busy for a long time and has personal experience with, also because she has worked in a human-dominated profession herself. Without going too far, it's not quite different from the experience of sitting in the finance committee in the previous period, where there were two women and 16 men. Why is this problematic? Isn't it true that young men and women choose freely what they themselves will be? In theory, yes, in practice no; educational choices are well formed as much of the environment as of what you want. Parents’ expectations mean a lot, school counseling and friends and acquaintances’ choices and preferences. Examples also have a lot to say. Before, it was unimaginable for young girls to become a meteorologist, even though meteorologists were on TV, and it is attractive in itself to young people. There were older men who reported the weather in the old days, until Siri Kalvig established Storm Weather Center and showed that it was possible for young girls to choose heavy and exciting real subjects despite being young and girls. If this has affected other real subjects, I am more uncertain about, although Kalvig has also been a good real-life ambassador next to advertising meteorology. But what can these groups do that have influence? Parents have an important responsibility to make a wide range of professions visible to their children, both professionally and academicly, and more academically at universities, whether in the direction of discipline or profession. It's not easy to ignore Mom, and it's not easy to ignore Dad. Maybe the counselors should have talked more to just Mom and Dad, because the counselors at school have a key role to play. Their job is to find the talent of each and every one of them and connect it to the great opportunities Education Norway has to offer. It's a demanding problem, but you can't ignore it. Finding a direction, including a career, is usually not an easy task. Maybe they should measure up a little more to whether they're able to get more people to choose untraditionally sexual. It could be exciting. Examples can highlight society. It has been done through many different campaigns, including: provide the role model agency for ALFA young women with new role models in real science. Here, schools and others can simply order visits from role models, which, by virtue of themselves and their experience, can tell about their untraditional career choices. Maybe we should make this even better known. I think the individual will be happier if we all work on what we like, master and care about, but it's so important to society as a whole. Anyone who has been at a workplace dominated by one sex lacks a more diverse environment. The working environment will be better if we mix men and women. Today, wages are too much influenced by traditional gender patterns in occupations. The same applies, as the State Council Halvorsen was in, full time and part time. Women's counties often lose in the paycheck. If there is a more even distribution of representation between men and women, it may also result in a more even and fair distribution of wages. In addition, it is likely that the job will be better solved if more people make a good choice, because they are better off with their jobs and occupations and deliver better than if they are not. Finally, these are demanding areas for political solutions. We have few so-called hard tools to use; attitude work is the most important and effective. Nevertheless, there may be some areas in certain professions where we are going to dry up the use of quotas. For example, we now see at the University of Oslo, where they put men in the psychology study, because we can't get into a situation where only women are psychologists.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3106	The Progress Party is positive in achieving a more equal gender balance in professional life. In many workplaces, an equal gender balance will improve the working environment. In particular, it may be important to get more boys into typical women's homes, but the Progress Party is opposed to quotasing gender into professions. But we believe a paycheck in the typical women's girls would raise the status, and make far more boys want to apply to the professions. The Council of State was aware that there was an increase of 80 p.m. by boys who applied for health care. That's very good. But the starting point was very low, so then it's not 80 pst. so very much when we convert it into numbers anyway. I think politicians should be careful to push too much by encouraging girls and boys to make untraditional choices. It's actually not always that gives the best results for the youth. I know a girl who has taken the challenge and took a typical human-dominated education that involved heavy physical work. After exercising their rights both in education and in the course of a professional test, it appears that the profession is too physically heavy. She just doesn't have her back, she doesn't have physics to have that profession. There she is today. She's at the back of the line in high school, because she's used up her rights. She wishes to train for a new profession and, if necessary, must apply to other educational venues, which provide an additional cost. It's not just simple. The most important thing I think is actually to support young people's own choices and rather to provide them with a good basis for making their choice. What is also important is to have a design and a device in the field of education and to facilitate young people's choice of subjects that they think are right for themselves, and that as far as possible take a course that is actually needed by society, so that most people get a relevant job, such as skilled workers, nurses, technologists, engineers, teachers, etc. These are directions which must be given priority and which we politicians must take seriously. It's actually a bigger problem that everyone's gotten worse in mathematics than finding gender-based preferences in educational and professional choices. Unfortunately, there is a situation in Norwegian school. The dropout in high school is huge. Knowledge in real science is dramatically poor. A lot of students, especially boys, can't even read when they're finished at school. These are also problems that need to be solved. The Progress Party believes it is more important that we focus on these before we use resources on other and much less serious problems that young people actually have an opportunity to sort out themselves, through free choice and good information about what the professions involve. I actually think our young people are fully capable of making their own choices on their own basis. I think that trust we'll give them without pushing too much, as I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3121	This is an important theme. One of the most important choices we might be making in life is choosing a profession, what we're going to do until we're going to retire again. Then you can say that you are allowed to choose a profession one more time, you are allowed to choose a wrong one, but most people don't have that perspective. You have the perspective that you should make the choice based on some interests you have, and that this is what you should be able to enjoy for the rest of your life. Then it is very important that the information that young people have when making this choice is as good as possible. So good advice and good information must provide good conditions for making safe choices. There are good arguments for us to recruit more widely to professions where we have great dominance of one gender. First, it probably means that many young people take advantage of some opportunities that they could then have the opportunity to try out. Secondly, more people have been concerned with the diversity of the workplace with a better gender distribution, and with the working environment. There are driven and have been driven campaigns up through the times of more women entering human occupations and more men entering women's prisons. We're recording that small steps are taken in the right direction. The council itself stated that the proportion of men in kindergartens has now risen to 10 pst. We're not satisfied with that, but once there was actually no one there. So from none we're now getting to 10 pst. But it is important, however, to respect the choices that young people themselves make, whether they choose traditionally or untraditionally. Choosing education that you're comfortable with, we also think we have something to do with motivation and the ability to actually complete the education you're starting. Examples have been drawn up of ‘Women in Car and Electro’ and the creation of good role figures. I have faith in that kind of campaign or action, and that the girls or the young people who make untraditional choices can be very good ambassadors for the subject to others of the same sex. But the Council of State was aware that a good counselling service is a fundamental prerequisite for us to succeed better in getting young people out of both sexes to actually see the whole spectrum of professions and see that here there may be opportunities even where you might not initially have thought you would land. From the Right we have raised the question of whether there is sufficient expertise in the counselling service in primary school, we have asked if there is sufficient competence in the counselling service in secondary education, and we have asked whether there should be a basis for looking at and getting closer cooperation there. At the same time, in order for students to mature or to see the possibilities of professional choice, it is fundamentally important that there is good contact between school and working life, almost from the start of school. Getting to know the diversity and breadth of work in the community also helps to give students impulses as to what kind of choices they will make later. Then I want to say that many professions have changed a lot, and we've been told that parents are very important premiscuous suppliers for what kind of choices kids make. Then it might be that you have to focus so much on your parents in order for them to see that there are many subjects here that do not have the same content as the subject did when they made their professional choices. Being a car mechanic is less and less to screw – there is more and more ICT and electronics. Similarly, we are now facing major changes in health, where welfare technology is at full speed. Maybe it could also mean that the boys can be on full speed into a profession that has so far been very women-dominated. Here, we need to play on the developments in the world of work, both technology, which is on the move, and other ways of working, so that it can help to increase the drive and speed of balancing the gender balance in some of the professions where we see that there is absolutely the greatest imbalance. Equality is important, but there must be no coercion. We don't have to get there in a way that gives young people a bad conscience because they're following their interests. But at the same time, it is very important that many more think more deeply about before making their choice. Maybe you should take the chance and not bet so safe, because there might be some possibilities out there that you might not have thought you would use at first.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3147	First, thank you to the interpellant for raising an important debate: how are we going to improve the gender balance in working life and make young people choose more untraditional? Norway is constantly being referred to as one of the world’s most equalised countries. This is largely due to the provision of good welfare arrangements and legal protection. It is also due to the fact that a very large proportion of Norwegian women participate in the professional life. Still, we have a way to go to balance the gender balance further. Something can be done in the individual enterprise, but essentially the basis for the changes in school, in the attitudes of our parents, of the teachers and of society, which have now been discussed by many. Do as I say, don't do as I do, is a familiar saying. Kids need role models that do what they say! Since it is Easter soon, I feel that it is now that we quickly get into the debate on chicken and egg. What comes first? What are we going to do? Kids must have role models, and they must meet them early. If we want to have a more balanced gender balance, the kids have to meet both sexes already in kindergarten. They're doing it too little today. So here's the babysitting eggs. I think the preschool teachers are the hens, and then maybe it's the ones we have to bet on first. In short, we need more boys to train as child and youth workers and pre-school teachers. Then they have to look for high school studies that allow them to do so. Many are concerned with the challenge that there are too few men in the education system, but it may be the most small bluffs. We can read about it in the media. A very large number of children who go to kindergarten have almost no contact with men during their everyday lives. With full childcare coverage, it is very important that we improve the gender balance among staff. The fact that there is also a shortage of staff trained in kindergartens presents great challenges, but I would also like to say that there are great opportunities for recruiting just boys, because they will have a great advantage if they enter pre-school teacher education and apply for a job. We need men who understand boys, from kindergarten age. In order to choose pre-school teacher training or teacher training, which also struggles with the shortage of men, many are already selected in secondary school. The interpellant points to active districts and fires that provide alternative training opportunities for students. However, as the choice of secondary education is made in high school, it is essential that we have a good counselling service that sees the challenges and opportunities of the preschool teacher and teacher profession before the students choose higher education. Strengthening the counselling service is continuous work, and we need to be better both in high school and in higher education right on that. The introduction of educational choices by the government is also important in order to bring about more untraditional educational choices. This subject will just focus on the strengths of the students and provide insight into the educational opportunities and occupations that can continue for the student, including professions that make them role models later on. This has also been pointed out by the interpellant. It will also be important to ensure that advice from high school is as good as possible. I have put the emphasis in this article on getting boys in as child workers, pre-school teachers or teachers. But a better gender balance in work is also about girls choosing something other than what their mother has done. I use to say that girls who want to save the world should choose real science. In order to solve the big or small challenges in the world, we need more girls. Girls need to solve the climate challenges and to research how we can feed a growing population in a world with scarcity of clean water and energy. Real subjects form the background for this, and the interest in real science needs to be developed as much in girls as in boys. As the Minister of Knowledge said, today there are girls who are the majority of the students in higher education. It carries a command that there are changes going on. We want several girls to take up more untraditional professional subjects in order to take a professional letter as well. In order to achieve this, therefore, students must meet their role models already from kindergarten, and we as governing authorities must constantly keep the debate warm. We must raise the good examples, add and otherwise facilitate good action. So I haven't mentioned pay in one word yet. Wages and salaries are also, of course, important to focus on. The debate has shown so far that it is important to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. So here, we can't get completely lost in the debate on chicken and egg, but rather focus more on doing more things at the same time and having more focus on chicken-freezing, to put it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3175	It is important that we politicians make sure that students have the opportunity to make choices that are best for them and for society. The interpellant addresses a correct and important issue and points out that structures in society are governing how individual young people choose education programmes in higher education and that it does not necessarily do the best for individuals or for society. As the interpellant also says, Norway has one of the most gender-based labour markets in the OECD. We have to remember that, and we have to remember that it also leads to increased pay differentials between women and men, different distributions between the public and private sectors and inequalities in social arrangements across sex. The school action plan on gender equality is not targeted at the real challenges. On behalf of the Education Directorate, Sintef carried out a study on the measures taken by the school to ensure the gender-untraditional choice of occupation and education. The few measures taken in primary and secondary education are aimed at providing girls with a real-time or agricultural choice, not measures aimed at boys or at other aspects of vocational and vocational training. The advisory service is the key to the solution, as left and also more people in this room see it. With good, qualified advisers who will be exactly that, and who are good at that, much will be solved. In Sweden, study and vocational guidance is a separate three-year Bachelor's programme, with the possibility of master's degree, a separate profession in school and the labour market sentence – not a further training for teachers. The left considers that we need to be open to look at such education and profession also in Norway and be open to the fact that there are qualifications other than pedagogical and didactic ones that need to be a good study guide. Study and professional guides shall have time, resources and competence to see each individual student. If we get it into place, a lot of work is done. The relationship between sex and choice is not constant, it changes over time. The teaching profession is the best example of that. At the beginning of the 1900s, almost only men were teachers, lecturers and teachers. Clearly, diversity is important in education and role models for many, and it is important for both women and men. It's not a static thing. Jus, medicine and theology are other studies with the same development. Today, there are far more women than men who study theology, even at the Faculty of Publicities. It's important not to paint black. It's good that many guys will work with engineering and industrial production. It is good that many girls will work in health and social sciences. But it wouldn't have done anything if more of the opposite sex would do the same thing. The left believes that we need an increased commitment to the counselling service to make this possible. We need an action plan for advice and guidance, as the Left sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3191	I would like to thank the inter-pellant, who put this topic on the agenda. Earlier today I had a visit here at Stortinget, and in good tradition we stopped at the paintings of two women who had, and still have, a great place in Norwegian politics. So it struck me that they belong in this debate too. That Kirsti Kolle Grondahl on 11 October 1993 became the first prime minister, was not unexpected, but it was especially enough for her to have her legal place in the history of women who have shown their way by saying yes to political positions previously reserved for men. If we turn around while we stay at the hall, we see the image of Anna Rogstad. On March 17, 1911, she was a historic day because this day she became Norway's first female wholesaler. Through her yes to entering into politics by taking a political position that at this time was a very untraditional career choice, she proved that women had, and have, their natural place where the decisions were made. If we look at the picture behind me, they should also have been in that room. Anna Rogstad also fought for another important matter, which is absolutely relevant to what we are discussing here today. Anna Rogstad was a well-known teacher of the profession, but she was also a female sac woman, and her big fight was to strengthen the girls' education. In 1900 she started the «Continuing School for Young Girls». Just giving and getting education beyond primary school was no naturality at this time, but it was important to make women choose the untraditional, an opportunity to leave the kitchen bench, to be qualified for work. I'm taking this backwards because these women, who represent the movement of labour along with many thousands of others, have contributed to what was previously unmistakable, if not impossible, now has become a matter of course. Today men are jogging baby carriages and taking cardboard, while women have heavy driving skills and are professional top sportsmen. Today, no one reacts to women occupying any position in our society, and that's the way it should be. Despite the fact that a lot of positive has happened, and not least is happening, we're not quite equal. Men own the most, serve the most and have the most prestigious positions, while women still have the primary responsibility for home and family and work part-time in the health and care sector. But there is a change going on, as this debate also shows. We're recording that there are still girls showing the way. They're much better at choosing untraditional than the boys, and that's good. The challenge is, as many people have been facing, to get the boys to follow the girls more closely. Getting more boys to choose carers is and will be a challenge. The most important thing we can do is to make ourselves responsible for this being and becoming the topic of the arenas our children are in throughout the education cycle, and not only in kindergarten and at school, but also around the kitchen table. To the last – the kitchen table may be an underrated political arena. Around the table, as parents, many of whom have attended, we can help build up both the confidence of children and the belief that the choices they will later make are in line with their own wishes and not ours. And maybe it does something with our own attitudes when we can participate in the wishes of our children when they argue for their future educational and professional choices, whether they fall within the category of traditional, or – and perhaps most so then – the category of untraditional educational and professional choices. As decision-makers, we need to recognise that Norway still has a gender-based working life. Although very exciting, women and men work to a large extent in different sectors, sectors and occupations. Maybe it's too narrow an approach, but I think boys don't choose women-dominated professions because it's largely about wages, and part-time is too widespread in women-dominated jobs. The government is aware of this and is working to eliminate involuntary part-time, and that those who want to work full-time. Although some claim that we do not have an equal pay problem in Norway today, it is a reality. The government’s forecast of equal pay is a good example of different measures that can be taken. Finally, that we are there today, makes me proud, but not satisfied. We have challenges, but the core wall of conscious political choices, primarily in the field of labour movement, makes me strong in the belief that we should find good solutions, including the challenges underlying this debate. To succeed, more people need to engage in such important political issues. It must not be such that this is a problem which is borne only by women, even we men must on the road. If we see who is taking part in this debate, we are today two pieces. My appeal to men is: Get on the track!
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3217	Few times in life, we make as important choices as the choice of education and profession. The number of subjects and educational opportunities can be overwhelming. For my own part, social economy represented an intersection between mathematics and social science that I had missed. Economics was not a subject I initially assessed. It wasn't my first choice, but it was my best. Motivating men to choose nurses or women to choose a profession may be about showing opportunities you may not have known. As the Council of State stated: the goal is not 50–50 in all educations, but that everyone chooses among all possibilities and not just among half. In a world full of education, career paths and abundance of information, it is preferable to follow the flow safely. Many subjects are strongly dominated by a gender, either boys or girls. But there was a significant twist in the last quarter of the century. The growth of women in health and social sciences and in teacher education stopped in 1990, while education that has been man-dominated, such as economics and primary occupations, is currently more or less gender neutral, with a female share of nearly 50 pst. The proportion of women in science and transport and safety subjects is not as high, but has also increased there and is today around a third. I remember well my own physics teacher, who succeeded in his eagerness to get more in the class to choose real science, especially girls. He was primarily one to motivate, but was also willing to provoke cautiously if he thought it was in place. Most inventions are made by men, he pointed out. Just think about when the dishwasher was invented, it came when we got equality, and the men had to be at home and wash up. Several girls chose real science. Perhaps it will be those who stand for the future's progress, inventions and discoveries. When universities are free to choose the best researchers among both male and female candidates, the chance is twice as great to choose the best. Some professions are particularly related to working with people, but also there you can see the reality differently if you think outside the box. I found a good text on proper.no, which is owned and operated by the Ministry of Knowledge's National Resource Centre for Real Science Recruitment. There it said that real science and technology can also give you a job with people: ‘You can get clean drinking water for the poor of the earth, you can notify tsunami and flood disasters, you can develop vaccines against serious diseases and much, much more.’ Choosing a right is important in individual education and professional choice. But finding the subjects for which they are really interested is also important for society's economy, growth and development. What we do more often, we do more often, and what we do more often, is what we get the best at. If more people succeed in finding the subjects you're really interested in, your interest, your apprenticeship and your efforts will increase. You practice more often and change better, and eventually even more competent in your profession. Intuitively, it must be right that an education system which chooses the right most, realises its potential, expands and feels at home, creates more contented workers, more well-being and higher economic growth. I believe that the gender balance in education and occupations is closely related to counselling and vocational guidance, because one has to know about an educational opportunity before one can really assess it, decide whether one is willing to do it or not, and if so, whether one is so strong that one chooses it as a professional path. Strengthening the counselling service is important in itself, but it can also lead to more people discovering the subjects they do not know, choosing the right ones, choosing what they want and dare to think untraditionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3241	I would like to thank all those who have shared one for me very good debate. I'll just associate some comments with some of the things that have been said. The Council of State said that we had to get those who chose non-traditional subjects to stay there, thrive in the subject and be there in the future. It's just what's important when I'm talking about networking, if you're alone in a bigger workplace – if you're good or if you're girl doesn't matter – these networks are so important. In that time, I was in Women in Human Occupations, which was such a network that we engaged ourselves. We had two goals in that network: one was to get more girls to choose untraditionally, and the other was to take care of those who had already actually chosen. That's what I think we need to work on, too. I'm very happy for all the posts here. The representative Aasen was talking about meteorology, and I thought it was a very good story that shows how things can change. I wish we could get some of these stories from the vocational training too, then role models and pictured a very good thing. Bente Thorsen from the Progress Party says that they're positive, but a little later in the article, she's suddenly not that positive, because you're afraid that this will take away the focus from non-response, real-time training and knowledge. I don't agree with that. I think we can focus on both, at least when we have the government we have now. I thought Right had a very good post. One was very busy with this consulting. It's also left. I'm very much in agreement with consulting. I actually had a long example of how consulting works, but it almost doesn't give me time to do it. But better advice already in the youth school is perhaps one of the best things we can do in collaboration with the continuing schools. What I mentioned in the example of Oslo Municipality about educational choices, where one now works with the students both in the secondary school and in the youth school, I think I give very great opportunities. The center party talked about getting more men into the nursery. We've been working on that for a long time. I thought what the Center Party said was very good. I'm very much in agreement with that. But I have often experienced this when I have talked about this in the 23 years I have worked on this matter, that everyone says that it is so important for men in kindergarten. I say yes, men in kindergarten are important, but women in dresses are equally important.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3256	This is a debate that has raised many important and important points to ensure that the choice of gender is not so traditional. I think maybe we should turn it that way, that you shouldn't pick gender traditional, instead of saying that here it's about making you pick untraditional. The perspectives that many of the debaters have had are that if you stay in the sex booth that most girls and boys are holding, you miss half of the opportunities you could initially have. Then I think we might be a little bit more on the offer page, given that more young people can open their eyes because they have many more choices than they initially think they have. So I think the representative Aspaker was into something that's very important, and that's that a lot of professions have evolved. They don't have the same content as before. Then, of course, it becomes very important that advisers are well informed about what is actually the content of different professions now, and that one is aware that one is not just going into the traditional trap when giving advice and guidance to young people. I think it's very important that counsellors in high school and in high school cooperate. In fact, the county councils do have as much pleasure in providing good advice in high school as the municipalities do, because if the youth chooses incorrectly, the county council is responsible. Then, of course, it's important for more men in kindergartens and more men in high school etc. But there may be one thing that we haven't noticed in the debate, and there are many more children who have much better contact with their fathers today than in previous generations. We've encouraged it through systematic investment in cardboard. That means that many more fathers invest more time in their children. And if you go back a generation or two, the father was one who came home from work, ate dinner, lay down on the sofa and saw the Day Revy, and with whom children had little contact, at least through the week – maybe it was a trip during the weekend. When we then know that it is difficult for the school to eliminate the influence that parents have, I think it can be quite important in the future. We know one more thing, and that's that it's the influence of fathers on the daughters, too, that's the most important thing -- a little more important than the mothers. Of course, there's a great deal of grief for us who are mothers, but I think we can see some interesting things about career choices ahead. I have received many good tips in this debate. I think the most important thing, maybe, is to tell young people that you can't let automatic and old prejudices make you ignore half of the possibilities you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3271	So the debate is on case No. 15 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3287	I have supplied this interpellation because management and employees at many of the country's technical schools have approached us in the Right and expressed great frustration at the lack of predictability. Part of this frustration is due to changes in the funding of vocational schools through the transfer from government-predictable funding to funding through the framework transfers to county municipalities. Some of the colleges, the former 6A schools, ended up still being publicly funded, which in turn can lead to very different funding for schools in the same geographical area. This is not lucky, and since the money is made available free by the county councils, there is still tension about what the individual school gets from the resources to run its school. The fact that for the private vocational schools there is another school owner, the county council, who is to distribute the money, is a strange solution in itself. I'm not going to elaborate more on funding now, because it's not the main theme of this interpellation, but just the memory that in the Right we have repeatedly called for funding to be state-owned for all the colleges. It was important to include this as one of the reasons for the frustration expressed over the unforeseeable nature of the school. Vocational schools shall, in the opinion of the Storting, have a central place in education. The health service in particular has a major challenge today in the fact that unskilled people after longer vicariates have been given permanent work in the municipalities, but need a way to get into education and receive a letter of formal education or other formal education. For these, the vocational school is a very good alternative. There are also many professional trainees who experience that additional professional training and in-depth knowledge are required to carry out their work. Indeed, the vocational school is just such a vocational education. The possibility of vocational training and further studies or the completion of vocational education is of great importance to the many who for some reason have not completed this before, and recent developments with an increasing number of students who do not complete vocational training have reinforced the need for this offer. Many of those who fail to complete have, after a few years, been motivated to move on. Vocational education can also be a very good offer for young people who find that they will change the direction of education, or have simply been inspired to take training in all disciplines in which they have acquired experience. Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012, Welfare Education, emphasises once again the important place that the vocational school has in its education. It is interesting to read the considerations of the department that have taken up the admission criteria for vocational education. It is precisely to these criteria that a large proportion of the frustrations in the sector are also linked. With reference to the notes on Chapter 5 of the Regulation on Quality Assurance and Quality Development in Higher Education and Vocational Education, NOCUT has tightened the eligibility criteria for post-secondary education. The Law on Vocational Education stipulates that the education is to be based on «relevant secondary education». With reference to the regulation, NOCUT considers that this means that if there is at all an offer at some point in the country that may be relevant to vocational school education, only students from this offer can start vocational school education. This is in stark contrast to the desire to adapt vocational school provision to the needs of the different regions, to address new needs and to ensure that vocational education can also be an arena for vocational reorientation. It is precisely on the basis of this department in Meld. St. 13 states that a broad interpretation of the term ‘relevant secondary education’ must be possible. This is also supported in the preparatory work of the law on vocational schools. I record that when there is now clearly a great need to train more people to work in welfare professions, it is the political will to develop the wide interpretation of the law. It is also exciting to note that a large number of welfare workers’ organisations want it to be opened up to students with general study skills, i.e. to use the broad interpretation of the law. However, in the case of vocational school provision for other professions which do not necessarily require such a large amount of students, NOCUT governs the policy with its narrow interpretation and with total absence of the ability to assess the reality of the educational admission basis. I think everyone in this room understands that there may be a great need for vocational education in the South, regardless of whether there is a higher education offer within – or with some connection to – the same subject area, for example. in Tromsø. But NOKUT then says that only students from Tromsø's offer can apply for the vocational school offer on Sørlanden, because this offer is available. This I cannot see that in any way is in line with the intention that the Stortinget has had for the vocational school offer. That's why I have drafted this interpellation today. Right-wing believes it is high time that the Council of State withdrew political governance in this field and made sure that NOKUT practised the law in the same way as the government and the ministry have done in the report I have referred to. This is part of the predictability that the vocational schools have asked for. It is then possible that the Council of State will now justify the whole of pointing out that trials are to be started on the admission of students with general study competence to some of the vocational education programmes. The health and social sciences already have a probationary period and the new experiments will be carried out within the field of art, culture, design and crafts and the field of media and communication. I really think that the best answer to this attempt came in the consultation opinion from the Coordination Recording, and I will refer to it: ‘Coordination of admission does not see the need to put in place a pilot scheme to accommodate students on the basis of GSK. Since we can read in Chapter 4 of the Ministry's State Report on the subject of the vocational education sector in 2011, there are already many post-secondary school students who have been admitted on the basis of general study competence and real-life competence. [[...]] The report indicates that 29 % of students were admitted on the basis of general competence and 7 % were admitted on the basis of real competence according to the above criteria. This coordination of admissions does not prevent the text of the regulations from taking up students on the basis of general study competence. In our opinion, however, the wording of the Note to Chapter 5 precludes admission on the basis of general study competence and the equivalent. Therefore, it should be sufficient to amend the comment.’;» Many students are also waiting for clarification and predictability. So the solution is quite simple, but it requires political governance. My question to the Council of State is therefore whether she will take back political governance in this matter and ensure that the intentions of the legislator are fulfilled, so that the vocational schools can be a good and, not least, available to those who want to take such training?
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3316	Vocational schools are important as alternatives to higher education, and this government has paid great attention to the role of vocational schools in the educational landscape. Among the work we have done, I can mention: the establishment of a new database for post-secondary school statistics in which the specialised schools have now reported for the first time the preparation of the post-secondary school status report on the ongoing work of including the vocational schools in the national qualifications framework; Work has also been started on a national candidate survey for post-secondary students. In addition, the government will come back to Stortinget with an assessment of any changes to the financial instrument for specialised schools in the municipal proposition for 2013. I agree with Mr Harberg that the vocational schools should adapt their training provision in line with regional and national needs and that there should be flexible admission requirements to enter the vocational schools. At the same time, those who are admitted to post-secondary education must be qualified to receive a learning outcomes that satisfy the level of benefit descriptions. That is what is laid down in the NOCUT Guidelines. Admission to vocational education today takes place in three ways: admission based on professional or bachelor letters of admission based on general study competence admission based on real-time competence assessment; Recordings are made on the basis of general study competence only for post-secondary education where there is no related letter in secondary education. I do not agree with Mr Harberg that the framework conditions for admission to vocational schools are unpredictable, but there may be room for more precise wording. This could be done, for example, by: be such that one of the subjects of the Law on Vocational Education and the Pre-Law is not sufficiently clear as to the circumstances in which a professional letter is to be required as an admission requirement. However, the legal basis for admission is clarified in the comments on quality assurance and quality development regulations in higher education and vocational education, which the representative had in mind. It is clear that vocational education courses based on a diploma from secondary education should have this letter as a recording basis. The Ministry's regulation on quality assurance and quality development in higher education and vocational education, with comments, has been at regular consultation in the context of the proposal for amendments. There were no central objections to our proposal relating to admission to post-secondary education. The interpretation by NOKUT of that legislation, where, in some cases, vocational letters from higher education for admission to vocational school education are required, is in accordance with the Ministry's intention to do so. This ensures that students receive a sound learning outcome. I believe, however, that it may be appropriate to consider whether there should be greater opportunities for admission to vocational schools on the basis of general study competence. As from 15 February of this year, the Ministry of Knowledge has therefore put in place a testing scheme. This means that specialised schools offering vocational education services in the fields of art, culture, design and crafts and the media and communication can establish offers with general study competence as admission requirements. The purpose of the test system is inter alia: to compare recording competence with final competence. So we want to find out if there is a difference in the final qualification depending on whether the students have been admitted on the basis of a letter of formal qualifications or a letter of association or general study competence. In addition, more groups will have the opportunity to take vocational education and it will also help to give more people real opportunities for lifelong learning. The specialised schools wishing to take part in the examination procedure must normally apply for NOCUT for the approval of the vocational training offer. The Ministry may decide that the Rules of Procedure shall also cover other subjects. If appropriate, relevant sector bodies, such as: National vocational school councils, may submit such a proposal. Any extension of the testing scheme must also be seen in the context of the Landfill Communication on Education for Welfare — Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012 Welfare education. There we propose, among other things: the conduct of tests on health and social vocational education based on secondary education other than professional letters and competences. So there's a movement in this case that should be interesting for the interpellant. The current examination procedure will be evaluated and, in the light of the evaluation, we will assess whether the admission rules in the vocational school legislation should be amended or clarified. Through these arrangements, the government will ensure that a good and quality national vocational school offer is offered and that the offer is made available to qualified applicants. We will continue the good dialogue we have with the National Board of Vocational Education, and also with the Student Organisation for Vocational Education Students, which is now being established. This will help professional school providers and students get good and predictable framework conditions to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3373	I thank you for your answer. First a clarification: In the case of unforeseeableness, it is evident that there are changes, sudden tightening of the interpretation, of course for those who have preferred to run the offer over time, or to make offers based on what has been practice. Then trials are established, but there are only some disciplines that get involved, or the offer gets established within a certain period of time. And it's these changes all the time that are unpredictable. This is why it is important for a cutter to go through, and it is strange that one should have to try out what has been a practice for a long time. It's incomprehensible. So if you want to go to college with a journalist, it's an offer in high school that has a photo as part of your education. Then you will have relevant secondary education that allows you to enter the journalism education. But general study competence, with all that you learn over the years that gives general study competence, does not qualify for such a journal. I don't think the Council of State agrees that it's a logical interpretation of this either, but it's NOCUT's interpretation – and that's what we want to point out and want to do something about it. It's very nice that the results are checked, and, I have to say, not least that the benefits of the education are checked – in this case, it's pointed out that one should check the dividends in relation to the entry qualifications. It is clear that it may well be that one in vocational education should look more at the outcome in the end than what was there in the beginning. So that's an exciting way to think about it. I am pleased that the Council of State expresses the will to look at this, and I hope that an active person can work to create this predictability. I think the vocational education courses are an extremely important offer for those flocks of young people to whom we now want to give skills and who can go into a job afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3386	I fully agree with the interpellant that the vocational schools are a very important offer. It reaches some young people with different types of study provision, or training provision, than would otherwise be possible in higher education or elsewhere in education. It provides an offer for those who have taken vocational training to go on their way, not only to young people but also to quite a number of young adults. So the colleges have a field of impact in education that it's very important to take care of and further elaborate. Then I want to make it clear that the tests that have been started so far have their limitations. Because in my answer I'm very clear that if there are others who now want to start this kind of trial scheme, we're open to evaluating the applications, which go beyond art, culture, design and crafts and media and communication. Then we can take with us the experiences we get from there, so that the vocational schools gradually find their more – what to say – clear, safe place within the education system. Then I am aware that many specialised schools do not believe it is safe that the county councils are now their owners and have to provide funding. It's a discussion that we also have, and that we, as I said in my post, come back to in connection with the municipal proposition, because what the counties from before are responsible for is higher education. This is another type of offer, and it is demanding for some states to see just how they will get this fit in. We are both in dialogue with the states and follow up on this in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3395	In recent years, vocational education and training have become increasingly prominent. As a consequence of non-compliance with continuing training, more and more people are now focusing on professional career paths following completion of further training. The school is, but will be even more so, an attractive educational path for those seeking short, professionally-righted education. I believe that the strengthening and visibility of vocational education for young people could create good career paths and a reduced drop-out. If we are to strengthen Norway as a knowledge nation for years to come, we need to focus much more on the learning of adults. We need a more offensive policy of continuing training. In this area, the vocational schools will be able to play a significant role through the flexibility, the wide breadth and close contact with the labour market that characterises this training. We also see an ever-increasing need to build on and build on the skills through the professional career. The government will strengthen the disciplines and facilitate more soundness and coherence between educational levels. Schools must have a clearly defined role in the education system. That means that, as a society, we need to be more good at using and developing the skills we find in the field of science around the country. It also means that more people should be provided with relevant vocational education. We should aim to improve the provision of this training in the labour market and towards other parts of the education system. It is crucial that the academic sphere's close association with the environment of occupational and business competence is continued. Schools have a unique opportunity to provide training for future knowledge workplaces. It's very positive that there's a broad political will to bet on the proms. In addition, high recruitment needs in many professions mean increasing demand for relevant vocational education and training. Moreover, we experience a strong commitment from many industries for an even more robust and practical professional school offering. For the Labour Party, it is also important that the trade unions become a larger integral part of a holistic education system. I think we still have a little bit to go on here. Society faces major recruitment challenges. Professional spheres should play an important role in adapting their needs to the needs of flexible training providers. Finally, I would just like to remind you that even in the field of vocational training there is a need for better cooperation, work sharing and concentration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3418	Svein Harberg said that there were many who had turned to the Right in this case. I think there are many of us who have received many enquiries in this matter, for understandable reasons. I understand the frustration that is at the root of the enquiries, and I understand that they are ‘inadequate’ – to put it that way – because it is a good starting point for all those who want vocational schools and vocational education well. They have addressed us about so many things – about reorganization, ownership, financing, admission regulations, field of engagement. It's a little painful for someone who is very happy in the county municipality day and night, to see that transferring ownership from state to county has given us some new challenges, among other things. related to funding and scope of exposure. Some of our best technical schools are just those who turn to a national market and want to attract students from all over the country. We have to give more support to this than to make it more difficult. I agree with the Council of State that the government has given this much attention to now, and I am very pleased that political leadership is still going to do so. Many people want to be skilled workers, and especially if they think a little more about them, combined with a little better advice, cf. the debate on the previous issue. And then there's a working life out there that hurts needs both many and good skilled workers to come forward. So I'm glad the Council of State is signaling this. I disagree with my Council of State – to put it that way – at one point, and that is when the Council of State says that vocational school is an ‘alternative to higher education’. No, post school is higher education. One of the things we're going to do in the future, I think, to give this more attention, is maybe to develop two -- let's say -- more and more equivalent educational pillars. We have the academic in place then to those degrees, relatively viewed perhaps too well in place, and then we lack something similar equivalent in terms of practical education. Now we're starting to get a good balance in high school, and we're doing a good job in high school too. Then I also ask to get the technical schools more properly in place, like to put something on top, maybe master's letters, etc. Then we get two equivalent pillars that stand in their own right, but at the same time have to have some possibilities that you can kind of walk between them in the most qualitatively sound way possible. I understand the frustration of those colleges that have not adapted to the legislative change, but have just taken up the general point. At the same time, it must be important and good to note that there are clear signals both from the Council of State and from NOKUT that no supervision of this will be carried out during the period that one now needs in order to finally decide what is the good structure and the correct recording regulation here. Then one of the challenges is that we have heavy vocational education that will just be based on a letter from high school. The technical colleges will, of course, and the technical schools in health will, in the first place, sail if we have said in the big message about the welfare professions that we can be a little more open. I have a very good sense of the way it was initially going, that it should be a – we should call it – post-graduate education for those who already at high school started to think about vocational education and training. So I understand that there is a need to clear up here as to which cases one would say that the vocational schools should be based on general study competence, and in which cases on the contrary should say that the youth should start to train in that subject already at secondary school level. So here's a lot to grab. It's easy to grasp a wish for a crash message when one feels that things are a bit chaotic. I don't know if that's the answer here, but I look forward to the further work and see it as perfectly seaworthy that almost as a representative of the school owner county municipality I will participate with life and desire and involvement in the debate ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3433	Firstly, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important matter. The vocational schools are an important educational arena in our education system. Let me also say that they are in line with the higher education sector in relation to level. The feature of the vocational schools is that they can quickly set up new lines according to the needs of the labour market. This is of great importance in a labour market where changes take place quickly. In addition, new content workplaces requiring new skills are created. On 30 May 2011 in an interview from the representative of Bremer to the Minister for Research, the Council of State said: ‘In addition, the vocational training system is intended to be flexible and ‘educations and schools should be set up and completed according to changing skills and capacity needs’, as stated in Ot.prp. No 39 for 2006-2007. This means that education which is no longer required in the labour market should not necessarily be offered by either private or public vocational schools. Such training arrangements require an interaction between providers of vocational training and the regional and national labour markets.» These opinions show a good understanding of the labour market needs of specialised schools. It is worse with the rigorous recognition practice that NOCUT is now leading in connection with admission requirements for schools. If this practice persists, it will lead, for example, to: Campus Kristiania, together with several colleges in Norway, has to close down their courses, because the admission basis will be reduced by 99 pst. This has consequences that the Progress Party cannot accept, and no one else should do if they really believe that the subject schools are as important as they say they are. I also do not think that there was any intention on the part of anyone with the acceptance criteria. The practice implies that NOCUT interprets the legislation in such a way that, if there is a similar educational programme in secondary school, the formal admission requirement for vocational education shall be the relevant secondary education. This implies that those who have completed secondary education must go one more round of secondary education if there is in secondary education a very small and sometimes insignificant part of the type of subject which they will take at the post-secondary school, cf. the example of journalists. It must be much more important that a journalist has good public knowledge, perhaps much more important than having the media and communication from high school. I can't understand anything else. A new round in high school is the few who want it. In addition, there is resource depletion, and the Progress Party considers this to be a completely unreasonable interpretation of the legislation. The policy is also in great contrast to Meld. St. 13, Welfare Education, where it says: ‘The general objective of the Government is to ensure that the Norwegian education system is flexible, as set out in the Annex. inter alia: St.meld. [[2008-2009]] No 44 Education Line’. In concrete terms, the Communication refers to opening up health and social education in vocational schools, which can be based on training other than a professional letter or professional competence in health and social matters, i.e. no background from the subject; it should be disregarded. In addition, it says: ‘This could contribute to providing new groups with a valuable opportunity to enhance their skills and thus meet the needs of the services through increased recruitment of qualified personnel. It will also be consistent with the pre-workers of the Fachschulegesetz that the concept of upper secondary education should be interpreted widely and that vocational education should be able to act as an arena for vocational reorientation.’. The party considers that this interpretation must also apply to other post-secondary education. That is why we now expect the Council of State to take the necessary steps so that the offer of vocational education is not destroyed and clearly states that the requirement for admission must be interpreted widely. The Council of State was also concerned to adjust slightly to the authorisation requirements, but it is asked whether it is good enough with regard to applicants with general study competence. Finally, I would also like to say that the Progress Party wants to get the financial responsibility back to the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3466	First, I want to thank the interpellant for putting an important issue on the agenda. I am also pleased that the government has raised the importance of vocational schools in a very good way in recent years. The government has set up a National Board of Colleges and is working to include the vocational schools as a natural part of the education offer and an integral part of the National Qualifications Framework, as the Minister of Knowledge just said. On Monday, during the consultation on the professions of the welfare state, we received further confirmation that the organisations also consider the vocational schools to be a completely natural and necessary part of the education system, which plays a role that universities and universities do not do. I would like to remind the assembly that the role of vocational schools in the education system has not always been a matter of course. Today, too, we notice that it is being challenged. That's why I'm very pleased that such an overall education committee, and debaters here today, see the value of the vocational school offer and have an agreed desire to facilitate the optimal predictability of the vocational schools and provide a qualitatively good offer for the students. Competence is essential for individual workers and for the labour market. It is therefore good that in Norway we have a high degree of study bias among those leaving high school. But it's misunderstood to believe that good competence means exams from universities and colleges. We need good skilled workers and immersion and specialisation in professional subjects. This is one of the reasons why vocational schools are important in order to ensure quality and competitiveness in working and business. Let me also stress that vocational education is a maritime alternative to higher education. At the same time, a vocational education gives a good professional ballast for further studies. Experience with the Y-way in engineering is a clear example of the fact that a practical training course also gives good candidates to university and higher education institutions. Professional schools must have a close link with the public and business needs of their districts, in order to be able to adapt their training provision in the short and long term to the needs that may be required. In particular, we see an increasing need for skilled workers in the health and care sector, but also other professions must have met their needs. The interpellant raises a problem that has created unrest among the vocational schools. We're going to take this seriously. The law now requires a diploma from high school for admission to some colleges, but the purpose of the colleges, colleges and universities is to ensure the highest level of competence for a population. This must be groundwork. This means that we need to have a system that facilitates that students, after completing their education, have the best possible competence and that we ensure that as much as possible achieve this. Applying for admission to a vocational school with a background in general study competence will be an additional opportunity to strengthen vocational education. The alternative is that one does not get this student group into the colleges. They are thus qualified only for higher education or university, while we say that we want more skilled workers. I want a system that is not so rigid that it closes doors that can be worthy of society. Society is in continuous change. It requires continuous adjustment by the labour force in the country. Then our educational institutions must also respond to that challenge. Professional schools can be one of the answers here for those who may have to quit their profession and move on to something else. I believe that we are politically about to do something exciting and new in Norwegian education policy. It may not be so visible in the daily discussion, but we are cutting down sharp distinctions between educational institutions and professionals. I think that's good. And those who are going to make the order must follow up. We need to develop an educational system that adapts to the needs of students and society in a completely different way than before. The changes are going faster, and then our systems also have to respond faster. We can't afford to let students or students put their heads in the wall, and meet the wall in an education system that justifies the resistance that the system doesn't allow. Our task as education policy makers at Stortinget is to facilitate optimal training within a sound framework. If there are obstacles in laws or regulations that counteract the goal, we have to remove them, as the government is now doing when it comes to admission to the vocational schools, through its efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3502	This is not the first time the situation of the vocational schools is up for debate in the United Kingdom during this period, and this time we have also discussed the challenges facing the vocational schools. Thank you to the representative Harberg who addresses relevant questions in the interview. I think this is an expression that the vocational schools have an important but slightly undefined role in our education system. There are many private and a good deal of public vocational schools. They are also very different, both in trades and in size. They are partly financed differently and the public schools have gone from the state as owner to the county as owner. They have different roles in the education system depending on the subjects they offer, and they also have very different traditions and stories back in time. Common to all of them is that they are an important alternative to higher education and university. For many employers, the provision of training at regional level provides highly needed, skilled labour, and for many employees and students, the vocational school responds to their specific educational needs – much more professionally than the university and university can do. This diversity is good and often related to regional and industrial needs. At the same time, it presents challenges for education authorities to ensure a certain level of quality and predictability as to what a vocational school should be and what quality we should expect from an approved vocational school. We want there to be flexible admission requirements in order to enter the vocational schools. At the same time, those who are admitted to a post-secondary school offer must be qualified so that they receive a learning outcomes that satisfy the level of learning outcomes described in the learning outcomes. This balance sheet is demanding in the case of a single code common to all schools. The working party believes that it must be possible to ensure a good balance. This means that it is natural that in those subjects that require a specific professional background, a letter is a natural requirement for admission. However, in the case of education which does not require such a specific professional background, it should be different. As long as the applicant can be expected to master the challenges of vocational schools with a different background, for example: general study competence should not be required. Which subjects and trainings should be in which category the Storting cannot determine. The political responsibility for this lies, of course, with the Minister of Knowledge, but should be in cooperation with the social partners and the Trade Council. It is important that this is done in a flexible way and to the best of them — the students who want to attend vocational schools and the needs of the labour market. Based on what the State Council of Halvorsen has said in this debate, I am sure that we will achieve a good balance between the need for a diploma in some education and that it should not be required of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3517	I am very grateful that the Council of State has given such a clear response, has invited other training courses to apply at the next deadline for application to be included in the trials, and that the Council of State is clear that she will find rules for admission that also meet the need for adaptation and flexibility. I am also very grateful that there are clear feedbacks that the funding model is now being looked at – that one comes back to it, so that we try to find good solutions for all the schools. Then I must thank everyone who has taken part in the debate. I think it has been a good debate. I would like to thank everyone for expressing their willingness to do something about this and would like to support the vocational schools and that the vocational schools will receive a good offer. This was a long one, but I think I'll conclude that it was a good day at work. I thought that then it would be natural to end by wishing the Council of State a good Easter. I hope that she will have a good opportunity to charge the batteries, so that she can deal with these matters with fresh courage after Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3529	I would like to return the wish of good Easter to the rest of the committee – and of course also to the President. I expect more than me to charge the batteries and I am “fit for fight” on the first day of work over Easter. I thank you for a good debate. It is only a short time since I was given responsibility for the technical schools. We still have a job to do to get the colleges into place, because, as the committee leader, Marianne Aasen, was inside, these are many different schools that now have the same name. They meet different needs, so we have to find the right flexibility. But it is clear that the main starting point here has been to provide additional training opportunities for those who have initially had a letter. Then there are several other variants that have kind of been attached, and then we have to try to figure out how to further develop and secure it. To the representative Aksel Hagen: Of course, I always get nervous when the representative Hagen disagrees with me, but I wonder if I can't quickly clear up this disagreement. ‘Alternative to higher education’ is hardly the most correct formulation, but alternatives to higher education and universities may well be acceptable to the representative Hagen. Then there is peace and deportability also within SV's ranks, and we can safely attend the Passover.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3538	It was a good conclusion, and the President will also wish the Council of State a good Easter. So the debate is on case No. 16 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3554	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3560	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3644	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3652	During the debate Arne Sortevik made a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads: ‘As from 1 January 2013, the government is asking for annual measurements of customer/user satisfaction of the quality of transport services in road, rail, boat and air transport in Norway and for these results to be presented to the Stortinget with proposals for follow-up.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3665	The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3682	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Øyvind Oddand on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. proposal No 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a financing plan for the full financing of the clean-up and repair of natural disasters at the end of 2011 and the start of 2012 related to road and rail.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3718	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on I and II and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘Document 8:49 S [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3724	The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3741	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to submit proposals for full State financing of Oslopackak 3. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3754	The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3767	In Case No: 11 and 12 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3776	During the debate, Mr Tenden put forward a total of 25 proposals on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a national minimum standard of social assistance for living that is priced each year. [[(excl. (dwelling costs)]] This norm must be at least equivalent to the State Institute for Consumer Research's research-based standard for a decent living.» [[SIFO]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to reorganise the Husbank to a ‘social bank’ which primarily provides start-up/housing loans to economically disadvantaged people who are not creditworthy in ‘normal’ credit institutions.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scheme for the purchase of dwellings, where a rented municipal dwelling can be paid down through rent and be owned in the long term. [[by Danish model]] The government further requests the government to contribute to the construction of several rental dwellings, where a share of them becomes home-buying dwellings.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance of child protection as a universal scheme, but differentiates it on the basis of income in such a way that child protection becomes more targeted, fair and redistributive so as to increase low-income child welfare while those with the highest income receive less net child welfare.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to decide by means of a change in regulations that low-income dependants are to pay the rate of the maximum residence payment in the case of kindergartens and SFO’.» Proposal No. Six sounds. ‘The government requests the extension of the free core time scheme for children in kindergartens in areas with relatively over-representation of ‘poor children’.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen municipal child protection and to increase the quality of child protection training.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the school health service.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up grant schemes for voluntary organisations providing leisure services to poor and disadvantaged children.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the care allowance scheme for parents with sick/disabled children.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the free health care scheme including dental care for children aged 16 to 18 years’.» Proposal No. Twelve sounds. ‘The government is asked to facilitate low-threshold psychological services in the municipal health service with State subsidies.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the programme of basic competences in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the scheme of traineeships in general government for disabled persons’. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a timetable for upgrading to the universal design of different categories of construction in a priority order, with primary schools having priority as soon as possible through regulations.’ Proposal No. Sixteen sounds. ‘The government is requesting the introduction of a model to ensure that breakaways are given an hour to outpatient or other treatment within 24 hours of detoxification.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the statutory ‘Lexification Aid scheme’ in 1 to 4. class steps and rather provide lesson assistance on a step and against student groups where it has greater effect and is carried out by qualified teachers.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to simplify the system of professional placement so that students with the need for alternative training can receive it’. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to start work on the teaching of the professional lines so that it becomes less theory-intensive and more practical, flexible and pupils-adapted.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to submit a proposal that would prevent the assets belonging to children with whom the debtor is depending from being included in the debt regime.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further improvements in the legislation of self-employed persons whose liabilities are linked to their business activities.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the scope of free legal aid so that more people can obtain free legal aid.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the financial advisory service in Nav.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the qualification programme with a view to making it less arbitrary and more targeted towards vulnerable groups.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a job strategy for those who are far from working for social reasons in the context of the 2013 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3933	During the debate, Gunnar Gundersen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case during 2012 on the basis of an independent and research-based review of the positive effects of the elimination of taxes on wealth and its impact on Norwegian, private ownership, industrial and industrial development and jobs.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3956	In Case No: 15 and 16 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e3964	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2012-03-29.ana.ud566e4002	Before the meeting is cancelled, the president will say two things. The first is to thank Leif Knutsen in the big business. So after 40 years, he has his last day in Stortinget. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The size is very happy with the job you've done, and as this vote has shown, we've done it right this time as well – even if someone comes from the sideline and tries to suggest something else. What the other president wants to do is, of course, to wish the big business representatives and the employees a really good Easter! Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
